City of Purcell
McClain County, Oklahoma
Municipal Code
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through March 3, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
Current Officials
Ted Cox
Mayor
Danny Jacobs
Vice Mayor
Graham Fishburn
Theda Engert
Jay Tate
Councilmembers
Dale Bunn
City Manager
Dorothy Kennedy
City Clerk
Victor Lohn
City Treasurer
CHARTER
ARTICLE I 
ARTICLE II 
ARTICLE III 
ARTICLE IV 
ARTICLE V
ARTICLE VI INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM, RECALL
ARTICLE VII GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE VIII AMENDMENTS
ARTICLE IX INAUGURATION OF THE NEW GOVERNMENT AND ELECTIONS
ARTICLE X
 
   We, the people of the City of Purcell, exercising the powers of home rule
granted to us by the Constitution and laws of the State of Oklahoma and in
accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the City of Purcell, and in
order to more adequately meet the exigencies of the times, do herein ordain,
ratify and establish the following as the Charter of the City of Purcell,
Oklahoma, which shall completely supersede and replace that Charter adopted on
August 2, 1949.
   Editor's note- Printed herein is the Charter of the City, approved in an
election held on February 9, 1999, and effective on April 1, 1999. Amendments
to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended
provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains
unchanged from the original Charter.
   Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic
purposes, a uniform system of headlines, catchlines and citations to State
statutes, in conformity with Part II of the Code, has been used. Additions made
for clarity are indicated by brackets.
ARTICLE I
   
Sec 1-101   Incorporation, Form Of Government, Powers, Incorporation
   
Sec 1-102   Form Of Government
   
Sec 1-103   Powers Of The City
Sec 1-101 Incorporation, Form Of Government, Powers, Incorporation
The inhabitants within the corporate limits of the City of Purcell, Oklahoma,
as now established or as hereafter may be established in the manner provided by
law, shall continue to be a municipal body politic and corporate in perpetuity
under the name of the "City of Purcell." It shall succeed to and possess all
the property rights, privileges, franchises, powers and immunities now
belonging to the corporation known as the City of Purcell; and shall be liable
for all debts and other obligations for which the corporation is now legally
bound. For purposes of this Charter, the term "City" refers to the City of
Purcell.
Sec 1-102 Form Of Government
The municipal government provided for by this Charter shall be known as
"council- manager form of government." All powers of the City shall be
exercised in the manner prescribed by this Charter or, if the manner be not
prescribed, then in such manner as the council may prescribe by ordinance and
if not addressed either in the Charter or by city ordinance, then in such
manner as prescribed by state law. The words "council" and "commission" may be
used interchangeably and shall have the same meaning and reference.
Sec 1-103 Powers Of The City
The city shall have all powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and
immunities granted to cities by the state and federal Constitutions and state
and federal law and all the implied powers necessary to carry into execution
the powers so granted. Except as prohibited by the state and federal
Constitutions and state and federal law or restricted by this Charter, the city
shall have all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and
immunities of every name and nature whatsoever, which shall include, but shall
not be limited to, the following powers, to-wit:
   A.   The power to adopt a corporate seal and to alter it at pleasure;
   B.   To sue and be sued;
   C.   To make contracts with respect to anything necessary to carry out its
functions, duties and responsibilities;
   D.   To acquire property within or without its corporate limits for any city
purpose, including public utilities, works and ways, in fee simple or any
lesser interest or estate, by purchase, gift, devise, lease, or condemnation;
and to hold, maintain, improve, enlarge, manage, control, operate, lease, sell,
conveyor otherwise dispose of such property, as its interests may require,
including public utilities, works and ways;
   E.   To create trusts, boards and commissions to help it carry out the
powers and obligations within its control;
   F.   To issue bonds in the manner and within the limitations prescribed by
the state Constitution and law;
   G.   To, within the limits prescribed by the state Constitution and law,
accept and administer federal and state grants-in-aid and to do everything
necessary to accomplish the purpose or purposes for which such grants may be
made;
   H.   To enforce local legislation consistent with the state and federal
Constitution and state and federal law, for the proper organization and
functioning of city government which shall include the right to enact and
enforce legislation for the preservation and enforcement of good government and
order as well as for the protection of health, life, morals and property of its
inhabitants and for the prevention, summary abatement, and removal of
nuisances; and otherwise for promotion of the common welfare of its
inhabitants.
   I.   To grant, extend and renew franchises in accordance with the state
constitution and federal regulations; provided, that such action shall be
authorized and approved by a majority vote of the electors of the city of
Purcell.
The enumeration of particular powers by this charter shall not be deemed to be
exclusive; and, in addition to the powers enumerated herein or implied hereby,
the city shall have all powers which under the state and federal constitutions
and state and federal law, it would be competent for this charter specifically
to enumerate.
No public utility shall be sold or purchased unless such sale or purchase be
approved by a majority vote of electors voting in a special election called for
the purpose of approving such sale or purchase. This shall not preclude the
city from purchasing, without a vote of the people, the lines of other
utilities located wholly or partly within the limits of the city of Purcell as
those boundaries now exist or may hereafter be amended.
ARTICLE II
   
1-201   Legislative Powers
   
1-202   Qualifications
   
1-203   Presiding Officer: The Mayor
   
1-204   Powers Of The Council
   
1-205   Council Not To Interfere In Appointments And Removals
   
1-206   Vacancies In Council
   
1-207   City Clerk
   
1-208   City Treasurer
   
1-209   Quorum
   
1-210   Rules: Journal; Yeas And Nays
   
1-211   Ordinances: Authority, Enacting Clauses, Title
   
1-212   Ordinances: Codification
   
1-213   Ordinances: Procedures Governing Passage
   
1-214   Emergency Ordinances
Sec 1-201 Legislative Powers
The legislative powers shall be vested in a council consisting of five (5)
members. Members of the council shall be nominated and elected from the city at
large. The term of office for members of the city council shall be in
accordance with the provisions of article IX of this charter. All members of
the council shall hold office until their successors are duly elected and
qualified:
   A.   Members of the council shall serve without pay except that they may be
reimbursed actual expenses.
   B.   The city council shall hold its regular meeting on the first Monday of
each month and at such other times as it may prescribe by its own rules unless
that day is a holiday recognized by the city in which event the regular monthly
meeting shall be on the next business day. Meeting shall be in the community
room of the police services building unless, due to special circumstances,
another, more suitable meeting area is required. In such cases, the mayor may
direct an alternate meeting site in a suitable place and such meeting place
shall be placed upon the posted agenda. The mayor or any three (3) council
members may call special meeting to meet at such times and places as may be
designated in the call. All meetings of the council shall be open to the public
and shall comply with the Oklahoma Open Meeting Act;
   C.   Unless otherwise specified herein, a majority vote on any issue shall
be binding;
   D.   Those elected to the city council shall be required to attend 80% of
the regular and special meetings of the council during a twelve (12) month
period and if a councilman fails to do so, his office shall become vacant upon
a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Amended by Res. No. 05-C15 approved by voters 2/14/2005)
Sec 1-202 Qualifications
Candidates for council members shall possess the following qualifications:
   A.   Be an elector of the state of Oklahoma in accordance with the statutory
requirements now existing or as may be hereinafter enacted;
   B.   Have attained the age of twenty-five (25) years at the time of becoming
a candidate;
   C.   Be a resident and registered voter of the city of Purcell for a period
of one (1) year prior to his election.
If during his term of office, a council member shall cease to be a resident or
registered voter of the city of Purcell or shall be convicted of a felony or
any type of crime involving moral turpitude, his office shall immediately
become vacant.
Sec 1-203 Presiding Officer: The Mayor
The council shall elect from among its own members a mayor on the first Monday
in May for a term of one (1) year. The mayor shall preside at meeting of the
council and shall certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances or
resolutions passed by the council. He shall be recognized as the head of the
city government for all ceremonial purposes and by the governor of the state of
Oklahoma for purposes of military law. He shall have no regular administrative
duties except that he shall sign all warrants, checks, conveyances, and such
other written obligation of the city as the council may require.
The city council shall also elect from its own members at the same time it
elects the mayor, a vice-mayor for a term of one (1) year. The vice-mayor shall
act as mayor during the absence, disability, or suspension of the mayor and if
a vacancy shall occur in the mayor's office, shall become mayor for the
completion of the unexpired term.
(Amended by Res. No. 05-C 15 approved by voters 2/14/2005)
Sec 1-204 Powers Of The Council
Except as otherwise provided in the charter, all powers of the city, including
the determination of all matters of policy, shall be vested in the council.
Without limitation of the foregoing, the council shall:
   A.   Appoint and remove the city manager, treasurer, city attorney(s) and
city judge(s) as provided by law and this charter;
   B.   By ordinance, enact legislation subject to limitations as may now or
hereinafter be imposed by the state constitution and law;
   C.   By ordinance, adopt the budget of the city;
   D.   Raise revenue, make appropriations and regulate bond elections, as well
as regulate the issuance of bonds, sinking funds, the refunding of
indebtedness, salaries and wages, and all other fiscal affairs of the city, all
of which shall be within the limits prescribed by the state and federal
constitutions, state and federal law and this charter;
   E.   Inquire into the conduct of any office, department or agency of the
city and investigate municipal affairs or authorize and provide for such
inquiries and/or investigations;
   F.   Appoint members to the planning commission and any and all other boards
and commissions of the city that now exist or that may hereinafter be created;
   G.   Adopt plats;
   H.   Adopt and modify the official map of the city;
   I.   Grant pardons for violation of municipal ordinances, including the
remission of fines and costs, upon the recommendation of the municipal judge;
   J.   By ordinance, through its zoning regulations and codes, regulate the
construction, height and number of stories of buildings and other structures,
the density of population and the location and use of buildings for trade,
industry, business, residence or other purposes;
   K.   By ordinance, regulate elections within the limits prescribed by state
constitution and law and this charter;
   L.   Provide for the establishment, power, duties, responsibilities and
functions of a municipal police department, fire department, fiscal department,
judicial department and such other administrative departments and such
divisions within every administrative department as may be necessary and
essential to the proper and efficient functioning of the government of the city
of Purcell, including the control and management of the city cemetery;
   M.   Create, change and abolish offices, departments and agencies other than
offices, departments and agencies established by this charter; and assign
additional functions and duties to, or delete functions and duties from the
offices, departments and agencies established by this charter;
   N.   Approve all claims made against the city before payment which duty
shall not be delegated to the mayor or any other person and which shall not be
by less than a majority vote of the council;
   O.   Provide for appropriate zoning for the city of Purcell and in
conjunction therewith to follow the procedures outlined by the laws of the
state of Oklahoma as well as the ordinances and policies of the city of Purcell
and this charter, as they now exist, or as they may hereinafter be enacted;
   P.   Provide for the construction of capital improvements, which shall be in
accordance with the laws of the state of Oklahoma, this charter and other
policies and procedures of the City of Purcell as they now exist, or as they
may hereafter exist;
   Q.   Provide for the accounting of all funds received by the city from the
operation of public utilities and otherwise, whether the same be accounted for
through the city itself, or through the various trusts, boards and other
entities established by the council;
   R.   To levy and collect any and all taxes now authorized by state law and
this charter or as such may hereinafter be so authorized;
   S.   To authorize connection to any storm or sanitary sewer whether the same
is located on public or private property as long as it has been constructed in
accordance with city and state regulations and has been approved and accepted
by the city;
   T.   To allow connection to city facilities by those outside its corporate
limits if deemed necessary or desirable, and to extend utilities outside its
corporate limits if deemed necessary or desirable;
   U.   To, by resolution, provide for increases or decreases in rates of all
utilities and services provided by the city.
Sec 1-205 Council Not To Interfere In Appointments And Removals
Except for the purposes of inquiry and except with respect to those officers
and employees appointed by the council, the council and its members shall deal
with the employees of the city and the employees of its various trusts, boards,
agencies and commissions solely through the city manager. The council and its
members shall not:
   A.   Direct or request the city manager or other authority to appoint or
remove officers or employees;
   B.   Participate in any manner in the appointment or removal of officers and
employees of the city, except as provided by law; or
   C.   Give orders to any employee of the city of Purcell either publicly or
privately.
Sec 1-206 Vacancies In Council
The council, by majority vote of its remaining members, shall fill vacancies in
its own membership for the unexpired term.
Sec 1-207 City Clerk
The city manager shall appoint a city clerk. This office may be held by the
same person appointed by the council as the city treasurer. The city clerk
shall be required to post a surety bond in an amount to be fixed and determined
by the council but in no event in a sum less than $25,000.00. If this office is
held by the same person who is city treasurer, only one bond need be posted.
Subject to regulations prescribed by the council, the city clerk shall:
   A.   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the council;
   B.   Enroll all ordinances and resolutions passed by the council in a book
or set of books kept for that purpose;
   C.   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be provided for
by law or by ordinance, and have custody of the seal of the city;
   D.   Attest and affix the seal of the city to documents as required by law
or by ordinance;
   E.   Assist the city manager in the preparation of the budget;
   F.   Collect all special assessments, license fees and other revenues of the
city or for whose collection the city is responsible, and receive all money on
behalf of the city from local, state or federal governments, from any court,
from any office, department or agency of the city, or from any other source;
   G.   The council shall require every person applying for electric energy or
water service or service on any premises from a municipally-owned utility to
make a deposit in cash with the city clerk in such amount as may be equal to
the charge for such service for a period of thirty (30) days or as otherwise
established by resolution. Upon discontinuance of service or at such other
times as the council may see fit, such deposit shall be returned to the
depositor after deducting therefrom any amount which may be owing to the city
of Purcell by reason of unpaid charges for services rendered;
   H.   Have such other powers, duties and functions related to his duties as
may be prescribed by state law, the council, or the city manager.
Sec 1-208 City Treasurer
The council shall appoint a city treasurer for an indefinite term, by a
majority vote of all its members. The same person may hold both the office of
city clerk and city treasurer. It shall be the responsibility of the council to
hire and terminate the city treasurer and it shall be its further
responsibility to set the salary and duties of said office. The city treasurer
shall be required to post a surety bond in an amount to be fixed and determined
by the council from time to time but in no event shall the same be less than
$25,000.00, provided that if the same person is also city clerk, only one (1)
bond need be posted. Subject to regulations prescribed by the council and the
matters set forth in article IV of this charter, the city treasurer shall:
   A.   Deposit daily funds received by the city and its various boards, trusts
and agencies in depositories as the council may from time to time designate and
direct; and
   B.   Have such other powers, duties, and functions related to his duties as
may be prescribed by law, by ordinance, by this charter, or by the council.
In case of a permanent vacancy, the council shall appoint a new city treasurer
within a reasonable time. In the case of temporary absence, suspension, or
disability of the city treasurer, the council may direct an appropriate person
to fill the vacancy until a permanent treasurer is selected. The council may
discharge the city treasurer at any time by a majority vote of those elected to
and constituting the council for "the good of the service". The council may
also enter into a written agreement with the city treasurer specifying the
terms and conditions of his employment.
Sec 1-209 Quorum
A majority of all of the members of the council shall constitute a quorum, but
a smaller number may adjourn or recess from day to day. The council shall
determine its own rules. A quorum may consist of any three (3) councilmen.
Sec 1-210 Rules: Journal; Yeas And Nays
The council shall determine its own rules and procedure. It shall keep a
journal of its proceedings, and the journal shall be open to public inspection.
The vote on any question shall only be in a public meeting and shall be by
"yeas" and "nays" or other equivalent designation, and shall be entered in the
journal.
Sec 1-211 Ordinances: Authority, Enacting Clauses, Title
The council may enact ordinances, rules and regulations for any purpose
prescribed in this charter or in Title II of the Oklahoma statutes or as are
necessary for the carrying out of the functions of the city of Purcell and its
various agencies, boards and commissions. Any such ordinance shall be
consistent with the state and federal constitutions as they now exist or as
they may be amended. The subject of all ordinances shall be clearly expressed
in its title. The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the council shall
be: "BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PURCELL."
The voters of the city of Purcell, acting under their power of initiative, may
enact ordinances in conjunction with article VI, section 1 of this charter and
in conjunction with the state constitution and state law. The enacting clause
of ordinances proposed by the voters under their power of initiative shall be:
"BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF PURCELL."
Sec 1-212 Ordinances: Codification
The council shall codify its ordinances at least every ten (10) years. The
ordinances, as codified, shall be kept current by use of a loose-leaf or other
appropriate system when amendments occur with the exact form and designation to
be determined by the council. Titles, enacting clauses and emergency sections
shall be omitted. Temporary and special ordinances and parts of ordinances may
also be omitted. Permanent and general ordinances and parts of ordinances which
have been repealed by council action or which are to be repealed by the code
shall be omitted from the code. Ordinances and parts of ordinances to be
included in the code may be revised, rearranged, renumbered, and reorganized
into a satisfactory, systematic arrangement. The council, at its discretion,
may publish in connection with the code new matters, such as, but not limited
to, provisions of state or federal law relating to the city of Purcell, a
history of the city and its government, the names of officials and other
informational matter as the council may decide. The code may also contain an
index, as well as such forms as the council may deem appropriate and desirable.
The city clerk shall keep no less than three (3) copies of the code in his
office for public use, inspection and examination. Copies of the code shall
also be kept for distribution and sale at a reasonable price. Notice of
publication of the code shall be in accordance with state law existing at the
time of publication.
The council, at its sole discretion, may enact and adopt as a part of said code
of ordinances, national and/or state recognized codes relating to, but not
limited to, such matters as building, plumbing and electric and in such event
it shall not be necessary to include in said code the entirety of each such
federal or state code, but shall only refer to it. The city clerk shall keep in
his possession for sale and distribution any such code so adopted.
Sec 1-213 Ordinances: Procedures Governing Passage
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall be considered
at a public meeting. It must appear on the posted agenda before it can be voted
on. A vote of a majority of the members of the council present, provided a
quorum exists, shall be required for the final passage of every ordinance. The
vote on final passage shall be by yeas and nays, or such other designation as
the council shall direct, and shall be entered in the journal. Every ordinance,
except an emergency ordinance, shall become effective thirty (30) days after
its final passage, unless it specifies a later date.
Publication of ordinances shall be in conformity with the statutes of the state
of Oklahoma as they exist at the time of passage.
Sec 1-214 Emergency Ordinances
The council may pass an emergency ordinance, when in its judgment, the public
peace, health or safety demands its passage. Such an ordinance shall be
effective upon its passage, unless it specifies a later date. Each emergency
ordinance must contain a separate section declaring an emergency, which
emergency portion must be voted on separately and must be approved by the
affirmative vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of all members voting.
ARTICLE III
   
1-301   City Manager Appointment
   
1-302   City Manager: Powers And Duties
   
1-303   Designation Of Acting Or Interim City Manager
   
1-304   Library Board
Sec 1-301 City Manager Appointment
The council shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term by a vote of a
majority of all its members. During his tenure of office, the city manager
shall reside within the city after being given a reasonable time for
relocation. He shall be appointed solely on the basis of his executive and
administrative qualifications. No council member may be appointed as city
manager during the term for which he shall have been elected nor within two (2)
years after the expiration of his term. In case of temporary absence,
suspension, or disability of the city manager, the council shall designate an
"acting" or "interim" city manager. In case of a permanent vacancy, the council
shall appoint a city manager within a reasonable period of time. The council
may discharge the city manager at anytime by a majority vote of those elected
to and constituting the council for "the good of the service". The council may
also enter into a written agreement with the city manager specifying the terms
and conditions of his employment. The city manager shall give bond in such
amount and upon such conditions as the council may require, but in no event
shall such bond be less than $25,000.00. The city manager may also be, at the
discretion of the council, the general manager for the Purcell Public Works
Authority or a member of any other board, authority or trust.
Sec 1-302 City Manager: Powers And Duties
The city manager shall be the chief executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. He shall execute the laws and
administer the government of the city and shall be responsible therefore to the
council. He shall:
   A.   Appoint and, when necessary for "the good of the service", remove,
demote, layoff or suspend, all heads of administrative departments and
employees of the city except as may otherwise be provided in this charter or by
law. He may authorize the head of a department or office to appoint and remove
subordinates in such department or office. Any employees appointed by the city
manager or his designee shall be considered an "at will" employee;
   B.   Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the council and be
responsible for the administration of the budget after it goes into effect; and
recommend to the council any changes in the budget that he deems necessary or
desirable;
   C.   Submit to the council after the end of the fiscal year a report on the
finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year;
   D.   Keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs of
the city, and make recommendations as may seem to him desirable;
   E.   Perform such other duties as this charter and the council may
prescribe;
   F.   Supervise and control the city police department, fire department,
cemetery, and such other administrative departments and such divisions within
every administrative department as the council may establish. The council, by
resolution or ordinance, may authorize or require that the city manager add one
or more divisions and that the same person head two or more designated
departments or divisions.
   The city manager shall not demote, lay-off, or suspend, or remove any
officer or employee appointed by the council.
Sec 1-303 Designation Of Acting Or Interim City Manager
The council may designate an "acting" or "interim" city manager wherever:
   A.   The city manager is unable to perform his duties;
   B.   The council suspends the city manager; or
   C.   There is a vacancy in the office of city manager.
Sec 1-304 Library Board
The council may establish a city library and to this end it may accept in the
name of the city of Purcell donations and contributions in any form from any
person, firm, corporation or governmental agency. The council is hereby
empowered and authorized to use such funds as may be available for the
erection, construction, equipment and maintenance of a building to be known and
used as the public library for the city of Purcell. The control and supervision
of such library shall be vested in a library board. The library board shall
consist of five (5) persons appointed by the council. Persons appointed to the
library board shall be residents of the city of Purcell. Each member shall be
appointed for a period of four (4) years unless amended as hereafter
specifically set forth and those board members presently on the board shall
serve out their existing terms. The commencement and termination of those
terms, as well as the length of said terms shall be determined solely be the
council and may be amended or changed by resolution. The library board shall
select annually from its membership a chairman, vice-chairman and secretary and
shall provide for and regulate its own meetings. The members shall serve
without compensation.
ARTICLE IV
   
1-401   Fiscal Affairs
   
1-402   Money Received To Belong To The City
   
1-403   Competitive Bidding: Supplies, Materials And Equipment
   
1-404   Property For Sale
   
1-405   Competitive Bidding; City Improvements
   
1-406   Accounting Control Of Purchases
   
1-407   Fiscal Year
   
1-408   Budget: Preparation And Submission
   
1-409   Budget: Content
   
1-410   Budget: Limitation On Contracts And Expenditures
   
1-411   Independent Annual Audit
   
1-412   Bonds: Issuance, Sinking Funds, Proceeds, Refunding
Sec 1-401 Fiscal Affairs
The city treasurer shall be the head of the department of fiscal affairs. He
shall have knowledge of accounting, budgeting and financial control. He shall
be appointed for an indefinite term by the council and shall be subject to
termination by the council as herein provided. He shall have charge of the
administration of the fiscal affairs of the city and to that end he shall:
   A.   Approve all proposed expenditures, sign all checks and be responsible
for the disbursement of all money; certify all contracts, orders and other
arrangements by which the city government incurs financial obligations;
determine the regularity, legality and correctness of all bills, invoices,
payrolls and other evidence of claims, demands or charges against the city, and
audit and approve them before payment; and otherwise exercise financial and
budgetary control over all offices, departments and agencies of the city.
   B.   Prescribe the forms of receipts, vouchers, bills and claims to be used
by all offices, departments and agencies of the city; provided, the city
council shall require that no funds belonging to the city be expended, except
pursuant to an itemized claim or claims approved by the council and that
payment thereof shall be made only by checks signed by the mayor and city
treasurer or their
respective designees who shall be determined by the council by resolution;
   C.   Maintain a general accounting system for the city and each of its
offices, departments and agencies; supervise, inspect and audit the accounts
and financial records which any of them may maintain; keep a separate account
for each item of appropriation, which shall show the amount of the
appropriation, the amounts paid therefrom, the unpaid obligations against it
and the unencumbered balance; require reports of receipts and disbursements
from each receiving and spending agency of the city which shall be made daily
or at such intervals as he may deem expedient;
   D.   Submit to the council a monthly statement of all receipts and
disbursements in sufficient detail to show the exact financial condition of the
city; it shall be the mandatory duty of the city treasurer to submit to the
council at least once each month, a trial balance of all city business, and
said trial balance shall be open to public inspection during the regular
business hours of the city;
   E.   Prepare for the council and city manager a complete financial statement
and report at the end of each fiscal year.
   F.   Have custody of all public funds belonging to or under the control of
the city or any office, department or agency of the city government; and
subject to any requirements made by the council, deposit all funds coming into
his hands in such depositories as the council may designate;
   G.   Have charge of all funds, investments and invested funds of the city in
a fiduciary capacity;
   H.   All monies paid into the hands of the city treasurer shall be accounted
for in a separate fund. No expenditures shall be made from said fund except for
return to the depositor when service has been discontinued or otherwise
directed by the council and for the payment of charges for services rendered
which have not been otherwise paid for. This fund, or a portion thereof, may be
invested in interest bearing securities as may be approved by the city council;
   I.   The city treasurer shall be responsible to the city of Purcell on his
official bond for any financial loss sustained by the city by reason of the
refusal, negligence or failure of the city treasurer to comply with the
requirements of this section.
Sec 1-402 Money Received To Belong To The City
All fees, fines, penalties, costs, forfeitures and other money received on
behalf of the city by an officer or employee shall belong to the city and shall
be delivered to the city treasurer daily, or at such intervals as the council
may prescribe.
Sec 1-403 Competitive Bidding: Supplies, Materials And Equipment
The city manager, subject to regulations prescribed by the council, shall
contract for, purchase, or issue purchase authorizations for all supplies,
materials and equipment for offices, departments and agencies of the city.
Every contract or purchase exceeding an amount to be established by the council
by resolution shall require prior approval of the council and shall be by
competitive bid only. The city manager (for all bids under $7,500.00) and the
council (for all bids over $7,500.00) may reject all bids and advertise again.
The amounts herein designated may be changed by the council by resolution.
Alterations in any contract may be made when authorized by the council upon the
written recommendation of the city manager. If the items being purchased have a
single source of supply, or if they are being purchased on a state (Oklahoma or
other governmental entity) or federal contract, it shall not be necessary to
proceed with competitive bidding.
Sec 1-404 Property For Sale
The city manager, subject to regulations prescribed by the council, may
contract for the lease or sale of real or personal property, or any interest
therein, owned by the city after having complied with the laws of the state of
Oklahoma and the city of Purcell related to declaring said property obsolete.
Every contract for the sale of any property, or any interest therein, exceeding
an amount to be established by resolution, shall require the prior approval of
the council and shall be by competitive bid. The city manager may reject any
and all bids.
Sec 1-405 Competitive Bidding; City Improvements
All public construction contracts shall be let and awarded to the lowest, best
bidder, by free and open competitive bidding after solicitation for sealed
bids, in accordance with the provisions of state law in effect at the time the
contract is awarded. No work shall be commenced until a written contract is
executed and all required bonds and insurance have been provided by the
contractor.
Sec 1-406 Accounting Control Of Purchases
All purchases and contracts made by the city shall be pursuant to a written
requisition from the head of the office, department, or agency whose
appropriation will be charged, and shall be first submitted to and approved by
the city manager. Upon approval by the city manager, the same shall be
delivered to the city treasurer or his designee for encumbrance. Absent the
approval of the city manager and city treasurer, or their respective designees,
the same shall not constitute a valid claim against the city of Purcell.
Sec 1-407 Fiscal Year
The fiscal year of the city of Purcell shall begin on the first day of July and
shall end on the last day of June of each calendar year.
Sec 1-408 Budget: Preparation And Submission
To assist him in the preparation of the budget, the city manager, or the city
clerk and treasurer at the request of the city manager, shall obtain from the
head of each office, department or agency detailed estimates of revenues and
expenditures needed for that office, department or agency. The city manager
shall then prepare the budget and shall submit it to the council for
consideration. The council, by resolution, shall adopt the budget with or
without change, and the council shall then certify a copy of the financial
statement and estimate and file it with the office of the State Auditor and
Inspector or such other agency as the State may from time to time direct.
Appropriations shall be effective only after they have been determined and
adopted in all respects in accordance with the requirements of the law and this
charter.
Sec 1-409 Budget: Content
The budget shall include, among other things, amounts necessary to meet the
requirements of interest on, and sinking funds for, the outstanding
indebtedness of the city and amounts necessary to otherwise pay the public debt
for which the full faith and credit of the city has been pledged. The budget
shall also include such amounts as are necessary to pay such judgments and
parts of judgments as the city may be required by law to pay. The budget shall
include such other items as are necessary for the functioning of the city of
Purcell and as may be prescribed by state law and the city council from time to
time and shall be in such form or forms as the city manager, the council and
state law may from time to time decide is appropriate.
Sec 1-410 Budget: Limitation On Contracts And Expenditures
No office, department or agency, during any fiscal year, may expend, or
contract to expend, any money, or enter into any contract which by its terms
involves the expenditure of money or incur any liability for any purpose, in
excess of the amount appropriated for that purpose in accordance with the law
and this charter. Any contract, verbal and written, made in violation of this
charter shall be null and void. Any officer or employee of the city who
violates this section shall be guilty of an offense against this charter and,
upon conviction thereof, shall cease to hold his office and shall be
terminated. Such officer or employee and his surety, if any, or either alone,
shall be liable for any loss the city may sustain as a result of such
violation. Nothing contained in this section, however, shall prevent the making
of contracts or the spending of money for capital improvements to be financed
in whole or in part by the issuance of bonds.
Sec 1-411 Independent Annual Audit
Prior to the end of every fiscal year, the council shall secure the services of
a certified public accountant or accountants who shall make an independent
audit of accounts and other evidences of financial transactions of the city as
of the end of the fiscal year and shall submit such report to the council and
the city manager. The accountant or accountants so employed shall have no
personal interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the city or any
of its officers and shall be certified to perform Oklahoma municipal audits.
They shall not maintain any records or accounts of the city but, within
specifications approved by the council, shall post audit books and documents
kept by the city or any of its trusts, departments, boards or agencies. In lieu
of the above, the council may arrange with appropriate State authority for such
an audit when and if permitted by law.
Sec 1-412 Bonds: Issuance, Sinking Funds, Proceeds, Refunding
The city may incur indebtedness by issuing bonds with the approval of the
electors of the city at an election in the manner prescribed by and to the
extent and for any purpose or purposes authorized by the state constitution and
law. Sinking funds shall be established, maintained and administered as
required by the state constitution and law and this charter. The proceeds of
all bonds voted for a special purpose or purposes may be used only for such
purpose or purposes or to retire the indebtedness created thereby. Interest
payments and retirement of bonds voted and issued for the purpose of the
purchase, alteration, re-equipment or improvement of public utilities shall
constitute an obligation against the receipts and income from public utilities
operated by the city. The city may refund its indebtedness in accordance with
the state constitution and state law.
ARTICLE V
   
1-501   Judicial Department; Municipal Judge
   
1-502   Municipal Court: Jurisdiction
   
1-503   Penalties
   
1-504   Municipal Court: Place, Records, Style, Procedure And Oaths
Sec 1-501 Judicial Department; Municipal Judge
The council shall establish a judicial department. The judicial department
shall consist of one or more city attorneys and one or more municipal judges,
as well as support personnel to be determined by the council. The council shall
appoint one or more city attorneys and one or more municipal judges to serve
under such conditions and at such salary as may be prescribed by the council.
The city attorney shall not act as municipal judge. City attorneys and
municipal judges may be discharged at any time by a majority vote of those
elected to and constituting the council.
Sec 1-502 Municipal Court: Jurisdiction
The municipal court shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
determine all offenses against the charter and ordinances of the city of
Purcell.
Sec 1-503 Penalties
All penalties for offenses against the charter and ordinances of the city shall
be within constitutional and legal limits. The council may ordain that persons
who have been convicted of such offenses be imprisoned until fines, including
penalties and costs, shall have been paid. The council shall determine, by
resolution, from time to time the amount of such fines and costs.
Sec 1-504 Municipal Court: Place, Records, Style, Procedure And Oaths
The municipal judge shall maintain his office and hold sessions of the
municipal court in city hall unless the council authorizes another place. He
shall keep a record of all proceedings of the court, the disposition of all
cases and of all fines and other money collected. The style of all process of
the municipal court shall be in the name of the city of Purcell. The procedure
in all cases shall be summary when the state constitution and law permit. The
municipal judge may administer oaths and make and enforce all proper orders,
rules and judgments.
ARTICLE VI INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM, RECALL
   
1-601   Initiative And Referendum
   
1-602   Power To Recall
   
1-603   Recall Petition
   
1-604   Council To Order Recall Petition
   
1-605   Recall Election Ballot
   
1-606   Recall Election: Holding Certificate
   
1-607   Recalled By Vote Of A Majority
   
1-608   Filling A Vacancy Created By Recall
   
1-609   Disqualification Of Person Recalled
Sec 1-601 Initiative And Referendum
The powers of the initiative and the referendum are reserved to the people of
the city of Purcell in accordance with the state constitution. In the exercise
of these powers, the requirements of the state constitution and state law shall
be observed in all respects.
Sec 1-602 Power To Recall
The electors of the city may recall any elective officer of the city at any
time after he has held office for at least six (6) months. If a recall election
is held, and the elective officer is not recalled, a subsequent recall election
on the same elective officer shall not occur for a period of twelve (12) months
from the date of the election.
Sec 1-603 Recall Petition
To initiate recall proceedings, a number of electors of the city equal to at
least twenty five percent (25%) of the total number of persons voting in the
last general municipal election must sign a petition or petitions demanding an
election for the recall of a designated officer. The petition or petitions must
contain a general statement of the reasons for which the removal is sought.
Each signer shall write after his name his place of residence within the city,
giving street or avenue number, if any. If more than one petition is
circulated, the demand for the election and the statement of reasons must be
substantially the same on all. One of the signers of such petition shall sign
under oath before an officer authorized to administer oaths, a statement on the
petition that he believes that the statements made in the petition or petitions
are true, and that he believes that all the signatures on the petition or
petitions are the signatures of the persons whose signatures they purport to
be. If more than one petition has been circulated, they shall be combined as
one before filing. The petition shall be filed with the city clerk. Within ten
(10) days from the date of filing, the city clerk shall examine the petition
and ascertain whether the required number of electors of the city have signed
it. He shall then attach to it his certificate stating whether the required
number of electors of the city have signed it. If his certificate states that
it lacks a sufficient number of signatures, it may be amended within ten (10)
days after the date of the certificate. Within ten (10) days after the
amendment, the city clerk shall examine the amended petition and ascertain
whether the required number of electors of the city have signed it. He shall
then attached to it his certificate stating whether the required number of
electors of the city have signed it. If his certificate states that the amended
petition lacks a sufficient number of signatures, he shall return it to the
person filing it without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same
purpose. But, if the city clerk's certificate states that the petition, or the
amended petition, has a sufficient number of signatures of the electors of the
city, he shall submit it to the council at its next meeting.
Sec 1-604 Council To Order Recall Petition
If it finds the petition to be sufficient, the council, by resolution, shall
order a recall election to be held not less than sixty (60) days after the
council delivers the resolution calling the election to the county election
board. The city clerk shall publish a notice of the recall election in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city, at least ten (10) days before the
election.
Sec 1-605 Recall Election Ballot
The secretary of the county election board shall prepare the form of the
ballots for a recall election and shall have them printed. The form and content
of the ballots shall be substantially as follows:
Official Ballot, Recall Election City of Purcell, Oklahoma
"Shall    (city councilman) be recalled from the office of    (city
councilman)?
   YES             NO
Sec 1-606 Recall Election: Holding Certificate
The distribution of ballots for a recall election and the holding and conduct
of the election, including the counting of the votes and the making and
canvassing of the returns, shall be done as nearly as practicable in the same
manner as in other elections of the city. The county election board or
subsequent agency having authority shall certify the returns to the council and
to the officer concerned.
Sec 1-607 Recalled By Vote Of A Majority
If a majority of the electors voting on the question of recall shall vote to
recall an officer, he shall thereby be removed from office as of the time when
the county election board certifies the result of the election. If fewer than
majority vote to recall him, he shall continue to hold his office as if no
recall election had been held.
Sec 1-608 Filling A Vacancy Created By Recall
A vacancy created by recall of an officer shall be filled in the same manner as
a vacancy created otherwise.
Sec 1-609 Disqualification Of Person Recalled
A person who the electors have recalled from an office of the city or who has
resigned while proceedings to recall him were pending may not hold an office or
employment with the city for a period of two (2) years after such recall or
resignation.
ARTICLE VII GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
1-701   Feminine Gender Also Meant
   
1-702   Removal Of Employees
   
1-703   Who May Administer Oaths
   
1-704   Oath Of Office
   
1-705   Bonds
   
1-706   Public Records
   
1-707   Favoritism To Officers And Employees Prohibited
   
1-708   Personal Interest
   
1-709   Investigations
   
1-710   Penalties
   
1-711   Separability Clause
Sec 1-701 Feminine Gender Also Meant
When the masculine gender is used in this charter it shall also mean the
feminine gender.
Sec 1-702 Removal Of Employees
The city manager or other appointing authority may at any time remove any
employee so appointed or employed under the provisions of this charter "for the
good of the service". If necessary, the vacancy created by such removal shall
be filled by an appointment made by the city manager or other appointing
authority, unless in his or its judgment the filling of such vacancy is not
necessary or demanded by the best interests of the city of Purcell.
Sec 1-703 Who May Administer Oaths
All officers authorized by federal or state law, all council members, the city
manager, the heads of all administrative departments; the city attorney and the
municipal judge may administer oaths.
Sec 1-704 Oath Of Office
Every officer of the city before entering upon the duties of his office shall
take and subscribe to the oath and affirmation of office as provided by the
state constitution and state law, and shall further swear and affirm that he
will support, obey and defend the charter and ordinances of the city and will
discharge the duties of that office thereafter; and that he does not belong to
any party or other organization which believes in, teaches or advocates the
change or destruction of any form of government by force or any other means
other than that of the ballot.
Sec 1-705 Bonds
The city treasurer, the city manager and such other officers and employees as
the council, by resolution, may designate, before entering upon their duties
shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of their respective duties,
payable to the city, in such forms and in such amounts as the council may
prescribe with a surety company authorized to operate within the state of
Oklahoma. The city shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
Sec 1-706 Public Records
All records and accounts of the city of Purcell shall be subject to the terms
and conditions contained in the Oklahoma Open Records Act, Title 51 O.S.
Section 24A.1 et. seq. and any amendments or substitutions thereto. All
officers, employees and officials of the city shall comply with the terms of
said act and shall be subject to the penalties therein contained for failure to
comply.
Sec 1-707 Favoritism To Officers And Employees Prohibited
No officer or employee of the city may receive, directly or indirectly from the
city of Purcell, or from any person, firm or corporation operating within the
city under a public franchise, any service or other valuable thing upon more
favorable terms than are granted to the public generally. Any violation of this
section shall constitute an offense against this charter and any officer or
employee of the city, upon conviction thereof, shall thereby forfeit his office
or employment. Nothing herein contained shall prevent such a person, firm or
corporation from granting the city such service or other valuable thing free or
upon more favorable terms.
Sec 1-708 Personal Interest
No officer or employee of the city may have a financial interest, whether it be
direct or indirect, including ownership of stock in any corporation, in any
contract with the city or in the sale to the city, or to a contractor supplying
the city, of any lands or rights or interest in any land, material, supplies or
services. Any willful violation of this section shall constitute an offense
against this charter and any officer or employee of the city, upon conviction
thereof, shall thereby forfeit his office of employment. Any violation of this
section with the knowledge, express or implied, of the person or corporation
contracting with the city shall render the contract voidable by the city;
provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply where the services,
supplies, materials, lands or any other commodities are purchased or acquired
pursuant to open and competitive bidding, conditioned upon the contract being
awarded to the lowest and best bidder. This section shall not apply to
ownership in stock in corporations traded publicly and ownership of stock
through various retirement programs.
Sec 1-709 Investigations
The council, the city manager or any person or committee authorized by either
of them, may inquire into the conduct of, and investigate any office,
department, agency, officer, employee, or other affairs of the city; and for
this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and compel the production
of books, papers and other evidence.
However, the council alone, with or without the city attorney as counsel, may
inquire into the conduct of and investigate the officers, employees and affairs
of the judicial department. Failure to obey a subpoena or to produce books,
papers or other evidence as provided herein shall constitute an offense against
this charter and shall be punishable as the council may provide within the
constitutional and legal limits.
Sec 1-710 Penalties
Any elective or appointive official who willfully or knowingly violates any of
the provisions of this charter shall be subject to an ouster action brought in
the district court of McClain County on the relation of any citizen of the city
of Purcell. Any employee of the city who willfully or knowingly violates any of
the provisions of this charter shall be subject to instant dismissal by action
of the city council, or by the city manager, if such offending employee is
placed under the control or supervision of the city manager by the terms of
this charter.
Sec 1-711 Separability Clause
If a court of competent jurisdiction should hold any section or part of a
section of this charter invalid, such holding shall not affect the remainder of
this charter nor the context in which such section so held invalid may appear,
except to the extent that an entire section or part of a section may be
inseparably connected in meaning and effect with that section or part of a
section.
ARTICLE VIII AMENDMENTS
   
1-801   Amendment: Proposal, Ratification, Approval
Sec 1-801 Amendment: Proposal, Ratification, Approval
This charter may be amended by proposals therefore submitted by the council at
a general or special election, or by the city council upon initiative petition
of the people as provided by the state constitution.
ARTICLE IX INAUGURATION OF THE NEW GOVERNMENT AND ELECTIONS
   
1-901   Continuance Of City Government
   
1-902   Nonpartisan
   
1-903   Election Resolution
   
1-904   Filing
   
1-905   Primary Election; Time, When Not Held, Etc
   
1-906   Primary Election: Who Nominated Or Elected
   
1-907   General Election: Time, When Not Held, Etc
   
1-908   Political Activity Of Officers And Employees
   
1-909   State Constitution And Law To Govern
Sec 1-901 Continuance Of City Government
The city's current council members, who were elected pursuant to the terms and
conditions of the city's charter dated April 1, 1999, and under which the city
is currently being administered, shall continue to hold office through the
expiration of their current term of office. Members under this charter shall be
for three (3) years. The respective offices and their expiration dates as
follows, to wit:
Division   Expiration
Division 1   2008 and every three (3) years thereafter
Division 2   2009 and every three (3) years thereafter
Division 3   2009 and every three (3) years thereafter
Division 4   2010 and every three (3) years thereafter
Division 5   2010 and every three (3) years thereafter
The city of Purcell shall not have wards but each office shall be "at large."
The number and location of election precincts shall be determined by the county
election board. The term of each councilman shall commence at 7:00 p.m. on the
first Monday following the first Tuesday in April.
(Amended by Res. No. 05-CIS approved by voters 2/14/2006; Res. No. 06-C19
approved by voters 2/13/2007)
Sec 1-902 Nonpartisan
All elections shall be nonpartisan and no party designation or emblem shall be
placed on the ballot.
Sec 1-903 Election Resolution
Election resolutions shall be filed with the county election board or
designated successor no fewer than fifteen (15) days preceding the first day of
the filing period.
Sec 1-904 Filing
Any registered voter may have his or name placed on the ballot as a candidate
for councilman provided the qualifications contained in article II, section [1-
20]2 of the charter are met. The filing period shall be three (3) days in
length and shall begin the first Monday in December at 8:00 a.m. and shall end
on the following Wednesday at 5:00 p.m.; followed by a two (2) day contest/
withdrawal period ending the following Friday at 5:00 p.m.
Sec 1-905 Primary Election; Time, When Not Held, Etc
A primary election shall be held on the second Tuesday in February of every
year to nominate candidates for the office or offices whose terms are expiring.
If only one person is a candidate for an office to be filled, he or she shall
be not only nominated, but also elected ipso facto; and his or her name shall
not appear on the primary or general election ballot. Every qualified elector
of the city shall be entitled to vote for one candidate for each office to be
filled.
Sec 1-906 Primary Election: Who Nominated Or Elected
   A.   In a primary election, the two candidates for each office to be filled
receiving the greatest number of votes for that office, shall be nominated and
shall proceed to the general election; however, if one of the candidates for an
office receives a majority of all votes cast for that office, he alone shall
not only be nominated, but also elected ipso facto; and his name shall not
appear on the ballot for the general election; and
   B.   If one of the two candidates nominated for an office in a primary
election dies or withdraws before the general election, the remaining candidate
shall be elected ipso facto and his or her name need not appear on the general
election ballot.
Sec 1-907 General Election: Time, When Not Held, Etc
A general election shall be held on the first Tuesday in April of each year to
elect candidates for the offices in which terms are expiring. If not more than
one person is a candidate for an office to be filed, he or she shall be elected
ipso facto. Every registered voter of the city shall be entitled to vote for
one candidate for each office to be filled. In case of a tie, state law shall
determine the winner. An election contest period shall begin
at 8:00 a.m. the day after the election and shall end the following Friday at
5:00 p.m.
Sec 1-908 Political Activity Of Officers And Employees
Officers and employees of the city may attend and express their views at city
council and other public meetings. City officers and employees may actively
participate in partisan and non-partisan political activities except such
political activity shall be exercised only during off-duty hours and while not
in uniform. Political activity during duty hours or while in uniform shall
constitute cause for removal from office.
The city council, nor any member thereof, nor any officer of the city shall
either directly or indirectly coerce or attempt to coerce any city employee to
participate or refrain from participating in political activities or public
meetings.
Sec 1-909 State Constitution And Law To Govern
The county election board shall conduct the primary, general and special
elections of the city. The provisions of the state constitution and law
relating to elections, shall govern such elections insofar as they are
applicable and are not superseded by this charter or by ordinance.
ARTICLE X
   
1-1001   Ordinances Continued
   
1-1002   Pending Actions And Proceedings
   
1-1003   Repeal Proviso
   
1-1004   Effective Date
Sec 1-1001 Ordinances Continued
All ordinances of the city, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this
charter, shall continue in effect until they are repealed or until they expire
by their own limitations.
Sec 1-1002 Pending Actions And Proceedings
The adoption of this charter shall not abate or otherwise affect any action or
proceeding, civil or criminal, pending when it takes full effect, brought by or
against the city or any office, department, agency or officer thereof. All such
actions and proceedings may be continued although functions, powers and duties
may have been transferred from one office, department or agency to another
pursuant to this charter.
Sec 1-1003 Repeal Proviso
The Preamble of the present charter (August 2, 1949) of the city of Purcell,
article I, and all sections thereunder, article II and all sections thereunder,
article III and all sections thereunder, article IV and all sections
thereunder, article V and all sections thereunder, article VI and all sections
thereunder, article VII and all sections thereunder, article VIII and all
sections thereunder, article IX and all sections thereunder, and article X and
all sections thereunder and all subsequent amendments thereto and all
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
charter are hereby specifically repealed.
Sec 1-1004 Effective Date
The effective date of this charter shall be April 1, 1999, on which date the
repeal proviso specified in section 3 above shall become effective.
CERTIFICATE OF RECORD STATE OF OKLAHOMA COUNTY OF MCCLAIN ss.
I hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a full, true and correct copy
of the charter of the city of Purcell, Oklahoma; that the said charter and a
transcript of all proceedings whereby the same was adopted and filed for record
in my office on the       day of    , 1999, at    o'clock,    .m.; and that the
same was duly recorded in Book    at Page    .
Dated this    day of    , 1999.
 
SEAL
 
County Clerk of McClain County, Oklahoma
CHAPTER 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Charter reference- General provisions, Arts.
I,
VII.
ARTICLE 1-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
1-1   How Code Designated And Cited
   
1-2   Definitions And Rules Of Construction
   
1-3   Catchlines Of Sections And Other Headings; History Notes
   
1-4   Editor's Notes And References
   
1-5   Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
   
1-6   Severability Of Parts Of Code
   
1-7   Certain Actions And Ordinances Not Affected By Code
   
1-8   Amendments To Code; Effect Of New Ordinances; Amendatory Language
   
1-9   Additions And Amendments Deemed Incorporated In Code
   
1-10   Supplementation Of Code Generally
   
1-11   Altering Code
   
1-12   General Penalty
   
1-13   Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
   
1-14   Relief In Courts
   
1-15   Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory Of City
   
1-16   Fee Schedule
   
1-17   Map Of City Designated As Official Map
   
1-18   Wards
Cross reference- Codification of ordinances, Art. II, § 12.
State Law reference- Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, 11 O.S. §§
14-108, 14-109.
Sec 1-1 How Code Designated And Cited
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute
and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Purcell, Oklahoma," and may
be so cited.
(Code 1991, § 1-101)
Sec 1-2 Definitions And Rules Of Construction
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following
definitions and rules are observed unless the construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council:
   A.   Building official and building inspector. The terms "building official"
and "building inspector" mean the officer or other designated authority charged
with the administration and enforcement of City building regulations, or a duly
authorized representative.
   B.   Charter. The term "Charter" shall mean the Charter of the City, as it
now exists or as it may be amended in the future.
   C.   City and this City. The terms "City" and "this City" shall be construed
as if the words "of Purcell, Oklahoma," followed them.
   D.   City Clerk and City Treasurer. Whenever the City Treasurer is also
serving as City Clerk, the terms "City Clerk" and "City Treasurer" mean the
City Clerk- Treasurer.
   E.   Code, this Code and this Code of Ordinances. Whenever the terms "Code,"
"this Code," and "this Code of Ordinances" are referred to without further
qualification, such terms shall mean the officially adopted Code of Ordinances,
City of Purcell, Oklahoma, as designated in section 1-101.
   F.   Computation of time. In computing any period of time prescribed or
allowed by this Code, by rules of the Municipal Court, by order of the court or
by any applicable ordinance, the day of the act, event, or default from which
the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day
of the period so computed shall be included, unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday,
or legal holiday as defined by the Oklahoma Statutes, in which event the period
runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a
legal holiday as defined by the Oklahoma Statutes. When the period of time
prescribed or allowed is less than eleven (11) days, intermediate Saturdays,
Sundays, or legal holidays as defined by the Oklahoma Statutes shall be
excluded in the computation.
   G.   Council and City Council. The terms "Council" and "City Council" mean
the City Council of Purcell.
   H.   County and this County. The terms "County" and "this County" mean the
County of McClain, Oklahoma.
   I.   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 25 O.S. § 24.
   J.   Health Department. The term "Health Department" means the cooperative
Health Department that serves this County.
   K.   Health Director. The term "Health Director" means the medical director
of the Health Department or his authorized representative, or any other legally
designated health authority of the City or his authorized representative, or
any authorized representative of the State Department of Health.
   L.   Joint authority. Words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more
officers or other persons are construed as giving such authority to a majority
of them, unless it is otherwise expressed in the provision of this Code, or in
the ordinance giving the authority.
   M.   Law. The term "law means and includes applicable federal law,
provisions of the Constitution and Statutes of the State of Oklahoma, the
ordinances of the City, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   N.   Manager and City Manager. The terms "Manager" and "City Manager" mean
the City Manager of Purcell.
   O.   Mayor. The term "Mayor" means the Mayor of the City.
   P.   Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
   Q.   Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   R.   Number. Words used in the singular number include the plural, and the
plural the singular, except where a contrary intention plainly appears.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 25 O.S. § 25.
   S.   O.A.C. The abbreviation "O.A.C." means the Oklahoma Administrative
Code.
   T.   Oath. The term "oath" shall include "affirmation," and the terms
"swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
   U.   Officers, agencies. A reference to an officer, employee, department,
board, commission, or agency by the title only shall mean an officer, employee,
department, board, commission, or agency, respectively, of the City.
   V.   Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be
read "or," if the sense requires it.
   W.   O.S. The abbreviation "O.S." shall mean the Oklahoma Statutes 1991, as
now or hereafter amended, revised, or recodified.
   X.   OTC. The abbreviation "OTC" means over the counter.
   Y.   Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to human beings,
organizations, associations, clubs, societies, companies, firms, partnerships,
co- partnerships, and bodies politic and corporate, or the manager, lessee,
agent, servant, officer, or employee of any of them, unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   Z.   Preceding and following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean
next before and next after, respectively.
   AA.   Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal
property.
   AB. Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription"
include a mark, when the person cannot write, his name being written near it,
and written by a person who writes his own name as a witness.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 25 O.S. § 26.
   AC. Shall, may. The term "shall" will be mandatory; the term "may" will be
permissive.
   AD. State and this State. The terms "State" and "this State" shall be
construed to mean the State of Oklahoma.
   AE. Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets,
avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places,
squares, curbs, and all other public ways in the City which are dedicated and
open to public use.
   AF. Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   AG. Week. The term "week" shall mean a period of seven (7) consecutive days.
   AH. Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1991, §§ 1-102, 2-502, 5-1102(2), 8-801)
Sec 1-3 Catchlines Of Sections And Other Headings; History Notes
The catchlines of sections in this Code printed in boldface type and the
history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not
intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the
contents of the sections and the source of matter contained in the sections,
respectively, and shall not be deemed to be titles or official sources of such
sections, nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided,
shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines or
history notes, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be
held invalid by reason of deficiency in any such catchline or history note or
in any heading or title to any chapter, article, or division.
(Code 1991, § 1-103)
Sec 1-4 Editor's Notes And References
The editor's notes, Charter references, cross references, and State law
references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are
merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
Sec 1-5 Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
   A.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   B.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution, or
proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under
the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1991, § 1-104)
Sec 1-6 Severability Of Parts Of Code
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if
any such section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase, or its application to
any person or circumstances shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal, or
otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall not
affect any of the remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or
phrases of this Code or their application.
(Code 1991, § 1-105)
Sec 1-7 Certain Actions And Ordinances Not Affected By Code
Nothing in this Code or the ordinances adopting this Code shall affect any of
the following:
   A.   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this Code;
   B.   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money for the City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any
evidence of the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by
the City;
   C.   Administrative regulations or resolution of the City Council not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
   D.   Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the
City Council to any person, firm, or corporation;
   E.   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating,
opening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the City;
   F.   Any annual budget or salary ordinance;
   G.   Ordinance Nos. 735, 934, 1001, 00-19, and any other ordinance
consistent with this Code levying or imposing taxes or pertaining to tax rates;
   H.   Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any
street in the City;
   I.   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing charges
for such improvements;
   J.   Any ordinance extending the limits of the City;
   K.   The repeal of any ordinance or part thereof that was repealed by an
ordinance which is repealed by this Code;
   L.   Any ordinance establishing rates, fees, or charges, except those
specifically reestablished in this Code, until the commission reestablishes
such rates, fees, or charges by ordinance, motion, or resolution.
   M.   Any temporary or special ordinances;
   N.   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision;
   O.   Any ordinance consistent with this Code pertaining to changes in the
zoning map or rezoning;
and all such actions and ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Ord. No. 91-2103, § 4, 5-6-1991)
Sec 1-8 Amendments To Code; Effect Of New Ordinances; Amendatory Language
   A.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code or ordinances which
amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section, subsection, or any portion
thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from
reprinted pages.
   B.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in
substantially the following language: "BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF PURCELL, OKLAHOMA, that section    of the Code of Ordinances, City
of Purcell, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as follows:" (set out new
provisions in full.)
   C.   When the City Council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the
City Council desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially
the following language may be made part of the ordinance: "Section    BE IT
ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PURCELL, that the provisions of
this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Purcell, Oklahoma, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered
to accomplish this intention."
   D.   All chapters, articles, divisions, sections, or provisions of this Code
desired to be repealed may be specifically repealed by chapter, article,
division, or section number, as the case may be.
(Code 1991, § 1-106)
State Law reference- Enactment of ordinances, 11 O.S. § 14-102 et seq.
Sec 1-9 Additions And Amendments Deemed Incorporated In Code
Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, or to any chapter or other
subdivision thereof, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of
the Council to make such additions and amendments a part thereof, or which are
added thereto in a supplement thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated
therein, so that a reference to the Code, or to any chapter or other
subdivision thereof, shall be understood and intended to include such additions
and amendments.
Sec 1-10 Supplementation Of Code Generally
   A.   Any supplement to this Code shall include all substantive permanent and
general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement
and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be
consecutively numbered in the style used in the Code.
   B.   In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which
have been repealed shall be indicated in the supplement.
   C.   When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person, agency, or
organization authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, non-
substantive changes in the ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the
supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified
code. For example, the codifier may:
      1.   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate organizational
units;
      2.   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and
other organizational units of the Code printed in the supplement, and make
changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      3.   Assign or reassign appropriate numbers to sections and other
organizational units in the supplement and, where necessary to accommodate new
material, change existing section or other numbers;
      4.   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or
to "sections    to    " (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of
the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinances incorporated
into the Code); and
      5.   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinances
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec 1-11 Altering Code
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the City to be misrepresented.
(Code 1991, § 1-107)
Sec 1-12 General Penalty
   A.   Whenever in this Code or any ordinance of the City an act is prohibited
or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or
whenever in the Code or an ordinance the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
provided therefore, the violation of any provision of the traffic ordinances of
this Code in chapter 106, upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not
exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) and the violation of any other
provision of this Code or Ordinances, upon conviction shall be punished by a
fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day or any portion
of a day during which any violation of this Code or any ordinance shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Any person who shall aid, abet, or assist in the violation of any
provision of this Code or any other ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in this section.
   C.   Any person who shall engage in any business, trade, or vocation for
which a license, permit, certificate, or certificate of registration is
required by this Code without having a valid license, permit, certificate, or
certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by any code, rule, or standard or any part thereof or appendix
thereto, adopted by this Code, or who shall otherwise violate any provision
thereof, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the
officers provided for in this Code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in this section.
(Code 1991, §§ 1-108, 5-1301; Ord. No. 96-01, § 1, 2-5-1996; Ord. No. 07-12, §
1, 9-10-2007)
State Law reference- Maximum penalties for violations of ordinances, 11 O.S. §
14- 111; jury trial when City seeks imposition of fine of more than $200.00, or
imprisonment, 11 O.S. § 27-119.
Sec 1-13 Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law.
(Code 1991, § 1-109)
Sec 1-14 Relief In Courts
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this Code shall interfere with the right
of the City also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a mandamus, an
injunction, or other appropriate action against any person.
(Code 1991, § 5-1302)
Sec 1-15 Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory Of City
All ordinances of the City that are in effect within the City on the effective
date of this Code or that shall go into effect after the effective date of this
Code are hereby extended to all real property belonging to, or under the
control of, the City outside the corporate limits of the City and shall be in
full effect therein, insofar as they are applicable. Any words in any ordinance
indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited to the
corporate limits of the City shall be deemed to mean and include also the
outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the City, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Code 1991, § 1-110)
Sec 1-16 Fee Schedule
A schedule of fees, rates, and charges may be adopted and amended from time to
time by the commission. A copy of the current fee schedule shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Code 1991, § 1-111)
Sec 1-17 Map Of City Designated As Official Map
The map of the City showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as the
official map of the City, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the City, including all
annexations made to the City through and including the date of August 7, 2000.
This map may be combined with the official zoning districts map.
(Code 1991, § 1-201)
Sec 1-18 Wards
The City is not divided into wards.
(Code 1991, § 1-202)
CHAPTER 2 ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE 2-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 2-2 CITY COUNCIL
ARTICLE 2-3 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE 2-4 BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND COMMITTEES
ARTICLE 2-5 FINANCE
ARTICLE 2-6 CITY RECORDS
ARTICLE 2-7 RETIREMENT; PENSIONS
ARTICLE 2-8 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
Charter reference- General provisions, Arts.
I,
VII; Council,
Art. II; initiative, referendum, recall,
Art. VI.
Cross reference- Any administrative regulations or resolution of the City
Commission not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code
saved from repeal, §
1-7(C); civil emergencies, Ch.
26; courts, Ch.
30; administration of flood damage prevention regulations, § 42-61 et seq.;
human relations, Ch.
50; law enforcement, Ch.
54; library, Ch.
58; planning, Ch.
82; taxation, Ch.
98; utilities, Ch.
110.
State Law reference- Oklahoma Municipal Code, 11 O.S. § 1-101 et seq.
ARTICLE 2-1 IN GENERAL
   
2-1   Health Department; Health Officer
Sec 2-1 Health Department; Health Officer
If so designated by the City Council and/or the City Manager, the cooperative
Health Department that serves this county and its director shall have the
powers of a City Health Department and a City health officer, respectively, for
the City. References to Health Department and health officer or director of the
Health Department in this Code and in other ordinances of the City mean the
cooperative Health Department and its director, unless the context clearly
indicates another meaning.
(Code 1991, § 2-502)
ARTICLE 2-2 CITY COUNCIL
   
2-26   Elections To Be Held: Three (3) Year Overlapping Terms
   
2-27   Time Of Regular Meetings Of City Council
   
2-28   Location Of Meetings
   
2-29   Election Of Mayor And Vice-Mayor
   
2-30   Rules Of Procedure
Sec 2-26 Elections To Be Held: Three (3) Year Overlapping Terms
   A.   The terms of the five (5) elected Councilmembers shall be staggered so
that at anyone general municipal election, the following Councilmember is
elected at large for a three (3) year term: Councilmember for division one.
   B.   The following year, at a general municipal election, the following
Councilmembers shall be elected at large for three (3) year terms:
Councilmembers for divisions two (2) and three (3).
   C.   The following year at a general municipal election, the following
Councilmembers shall be elected at large for three (3) year terms:
Councilmembers for divisions four (4) and five (5).
(Code 1991, § 2-201)
Charter reference- Similar provisions,
Art. IX.
Sec 2-27 Time Of Regular Meetings Of City Council
The City Council shall hold its regular meeting on the first Monday of each
month at 6:00 p.m., and at such other times as it may prescribe by its own
rules unless that day is a holiday recognized by the City, in which event the
regular monthly meeting shall be on the next business day. Any future
modifications to the starting time of regular monthly meetings shall be by
resolution.
(Code 1991, § 2-202; Ord. No. 15-04, § 1, 5-4-2015)
Charter reference- Monthly meetings on the first Monday,
Art. II, § 1.
Sec 2-28 Location Of Meetings
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, every meeting of the Council shall be at
such places within the corporate limits of the City of Purcell as the Purcell
City Council shall designate.
   B.   The current regular monthly meetings are being held at the Community
Room of the Police Service Building located at 1515 North Green Avenue,
Purcell, Oklahoma, and shall continue to be held at said location henceforth
unless modified by the City Council by resolution.
(Code 1991, § 2-203; Ord. No. 15-05, § 1, 5-4-2015)
State Law reference- Absences from Council meetings create vacancies, 11 O.S. §
8-108; meetings generally, 11 O.S. § 10-108; Open Meeting Act, 25 O.S. § 301 et
seq.
Sec 2-29 Election Of Mayor And Vice-Mayor
The Council shall elect a Mayor and a Vice-Mayor as provided in the Charter and
they shall serve until their respective successors have been elected and
qualified.
(Code 1991, § 2-204)
Charter reference- Mayor, Vice-Mayor,
Art. II, § 3.
Sec 2-30 Rules Of Procedure
Rules of procedure established by the Council by resolution shall govern
matters not included or covered in this Code.
(Code 1991, § 2-206)
ARTICLE 2-3 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
   
2-56   City Manager; Duties
   
2-57   City Attorney
   
2-58   Certain Personnel To Be Bonded
   
2-59   Personnel Benefits, Policies
   
2-60   Succession In Government
Charter reference- Appointments, removals,
Art. II, § 5.
Cross reference- Any annual budget or salary ordinance saved from repeal, §
1-7(H); building official, §
14-28; plumbing inspectors; office created; duties, §
14-56; electrical inspector, §
14-267; office of civil defense created; director, §
26-28; municipal court judges, §
30-56 et seq.; clerk of municipal court, §
30-91 et seq.; floodplain administrator, §
46-26 et seq.; health officer designated to enforce health, §
42-13.
Sec 2-56 City Manager; Duties
The City Manager shall have the duties prescribed by the Charter, ordinance, or
law.
(Code 1991, § 2-302)
Charter reference- City Manager, powers and duties,
Art. III, § 2.
Sec 2-57 City Attorney
The City Attorney is the chief legal adviser of the Council and all other
officers, departments, and agencies of the City government in matters relating
to their official powers and duties. He represents the City in proceedings in
the courts, and performs all services incident to his position which may be
required by law, the Charter, or ordinance. He may attend regular meetings of
the Council and prepare ordinances for the Council. He may receive a regular
salary as set by the Council and, in addition thereto, receive reasonable fees
for representing the City in lawsuits or controversies to which the City is a
party, whether tried, settled or otherwise. He may provide other special
services as requested by the Council or Manager. When duly authorized by the
Council or Manager, he shall receive a reasonable fee for such special
services.
(Code 1991, § 2-501)
Sec 2-58 Certain Personnel To Be Bonded
   A.   Before entering upon their official duties, the following personnel of
the City government shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of their
official duties, payable to the City, with a surety company authorized to
operate within the state, in such amounts as set or approved by the Council:
      1.   City Manager;
      2.   City Clerk;
      3.   City Treasurer.
   B.   The Council, by motion or resolution, may require other officers and
employees in such positions as it may designate to be bonded.
(Code 1991, § 2-503(A), (B))
Charter reference- Bonds,
art. VII, § 5.
State Law reference- Certain officers to give bond, 11 O.S. § 8-105;
ordinances, § 46- 26; chief of police-position created, § 54-26; police
officers, § 54-28; planning commissions, § 82-26 et seq.; planning board of
adjustment, § 82-86 et seq.
Sec 2-59 Personnel Benefits, Policies
The City Manager, pursuant to his general powers to supervise, appoint, and
remove employees of the City, may promulgate such rules or regulations as may
be necessary to provide for personnel matters and employment administration of
the City. A copy of current personnel administration information or regulations
as developed by the City Manager shall be kept on file in the office of the
City Clerk.
(Code 1991, § 2-505(A))
Sec 2-60 Succession In Government
All books, vouchers, monies, or other property belonging to the City, and in
charge or possession of any officer of the City, shall be delivered to his
successor.
(Code 1991, § 2-506(C))
ARTICLE 2-4 BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND COMMITTEES
DIVISION 2-4-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 2-4-2 EMPLOYEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Cross reference- Fair Housing Board, §
50-56 et seq.
DIVISION 2-4-1 GENERALLY
   
2-86   Authority; Appointments; Terms
Sec 2-86 Authority; Appointments; Terms
   A.   The City Council is authorized and empowered by the Charter and
ordinances, and certain trust indentures of which the City is the beneficiary,
to appoint persons to boards, commissions, and committees of the City.
   B.   All appointments of persons to the boards, authorities, commissions,
and committees shall be for terms coinciding with the fiscal year of the City,
such terms to commence on July 1 of the year of appointment and conclude on the
June 30 of the year of expiration. Provided that such appointees, unless
precluded by the organizational document creating such board, authority,
commission, or committee, shall continue to serve until their respective
successor is appointed and qualified. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be
for the unexpired term only.
   C.   All appointees shall be nominated and confirmed by the City Council and
shall serve for staggered terms of three (3) years so as to prevent a majority
of appointments occurring at any one (1) time. Appointees shall not serve more
than two (2) consecutive terms. A person appointed to fill an unexpired term
will have been considered to serve the entire term in reference to serving two
(2) consecutive terms.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (C) of this section, members
may not be reappointed to the same board until the expiration of one (1) year
from the date of such member's preceding term.
(Code 1991, § 2-507; Ord. No. 92-2111, § 1, 2-3-1992)
DIVISION 2-4-2 EMPLOYEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
   
2-91   Committee Created
   
2-92   Membership Of Committee
   
2-93   Election Of Membership
   
2-94   Meetings Of The Committee
   
2-95   Purpose Of Committee
   
2-96   Scope Of Authority
   
2-97   Removal Of Members
Editor's note- Ord. No. 03-08, §§ 1-7, adopted October 6, 2003, did not specify
manner of inclusion; hence, inclusion as division 2, §§ 2-91-2-97, is at the
discretion of the editor.
Sec 2-91 Committee Created
There is hereby created an Employee Advisory Committee.
(Ord. No. 03-08, § 1, 10-6-2003)
Sec 2-92 Membership Of Committee
   A.   The committee will be comprised of five (5) members, which shall be
elected by the City employees for three (3) year terms, with the initial
committee to be composed of two (2) employees with one (1) year terms; two (2)
employees with two (2) year terms; and one (1) employee with a three (3) year
term.
   B.   The makeup of the membership of the committee shall be two (2) non-
supervisory employees, two (2) supervisory employees, and one (1) at-large
member who may be either a supervisor or non-supervisor.
   C.   All members of the committee must be full-time employees of the City
who have been employed no less than one (1) year.
   D.   Membership in the committee is at all times voluntary and any member
may resign at any time by way of written notification to the committee.
(Ord. No. 03-08, § 2, 10-6-2003)
Sec 2-93 Election Of Membership
   A.   Elections to replace outgoing members of the committee shall be held on
the first Friday following the anniversary date of the adoption of the
ordinance from which this division derives.
   B.   Those employees initially elected by a vote of employees prior to the
approval of the ordinance from which this division derives shall serve their
agreed-upon terms until replaced through the normal election procedure, as
specified in subsection (A).
   C.   Special elections may be called to select members to fill any unexpired
term of a member who resigns or is removed from the committee (see Section
2-97).
   D.   No employee may serve more than two (2) consecutive terms or more than
six (6) consecutive years as a member of the committee.
(Ord. No. 03-08, § 3, 10-6-2003)
Sec 2-94 Meetings Of The Committee
   A.   The committee shall meet monthly on the last Tuesday of each month at
1:30 p.m.
   B.   Special meetings may be called as needed.
   C.   Meetings shall be conducted during normal business hours.
   D.   All proposed agenda items shall be communicated by the City Manager no
less than five (5) days prior to the regular meeting. The City Manager may
attend all meetings and may request specific agenda items for consideration by
the committee.
(Ord. No. 03-08, § 4, 10-6-2003)
Sec 2-95 Purpose Of Committee
   A.   Enhance communication and morale throughout all aspects of the
organization.
   B.   Review and make finding and/or recommendations regarding items
presented by the City Manager, including but not necessarily limited to:
      1.   Personnel policies and/or procedures affecting City employees as a
whole;
      2.   Changes in insurance coverage, retirement benefits, and other fringe
benefits and related items;
      3.   Budget recommendations and information related to financial
forecasting to meet the needs of each department and the City as a whole;
   C.   The committee shall assist the City Manager in establishing an employee
evaluation program.
   D.   The committee shall work with the City Manager:
      1.   To establish over-all goals and objectives for the City;
      2.   To maintain and enhance public perception of City employees and City
government.
   E.   Any and all business reviewed by the committee will be available to the
City Council upon request.
(Ord. No. 03-08, § 5, 10-6-2003)
Sec 2-96 Scope Of Authority
   A.   The findings of this committee and any resulting recommendations are
advisory only and will not be construed in any way as binding.
   B.   Final decisions on any matters will be made by the City Manager or the
City Council in accordance with provisions of the City Charter, State and
federal laws and any other applicable regulations.
(Ord. No. 03-08, § 6, 10-6-2003)
Sec 2-97 Removal Of Members
Any member of this committee may be removed from membership through procedures
listed below:
   A.   Through a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the employees of the City;
   B.   Through recommendation by the City Manager, subject to confirmation by
the entire committee, based on specific breach of confidentiality;
   C.   Termination of employment for any reason;
   D.   Failure to attend at least seventy-five percent (75%) of all meeting
within any twelve-month period or four (4) consecutive absences from committee
meetings.
(Ord. No. 03-08, § 7, 10-6-2003)
ARTICLE 2-5 FINANCE
DIVISION 2-5-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 2-5-2 FINANCE DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 2-5-3 CONTRACTS; PURCHASES
Charter reference- Finance,
Art. IV.
Cross reference- Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the
payment of money for the City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
City or any evidence of the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation
assumed by the City saved from repeal, §
1-7(B); taxation, Ch.
98.
DIVISION 2-5-1 GENERALLY
   
2-111   Depositories Designated; Funds To Be Deposited
   
2-112   Funds Secured By Unit Collateral System
Sec 2-111 Depositories Designated; Funds To Be Deposited
Funds of the City shall be deposited as required by law. The City Treasurer
shall deposit daily funds received by the City and its various boards, trusts,
and agencies in depositories as the Council may from time to time designate and
direct.
(Code 1991, § 7-101)
State Law reference- Deposits by treasurers, designation of depositories, 11
O.S. § 10-118, 62 O.S. §§ 511, 513, 516.5.
Sec 2-112 Funds Secured By Unit Collateral System
The deposits of the City shall be secured by the unit collateral system
provided by the Oklahoma Statutes.
(Code 1991, § 7-102)
State Law reference- Unit collateral system, 62 O.S. § 516.1 et seq.
DIVISION 2-5-2 FINANCE DEPARTMENT
   
2-146   City Treasurer
   
2-147   Powers, Duties, And Functions Of City Treasurer
   
2-148   Powers, Duties, And Functions Of City Clerk
Sec 2-146 City Treasurer
The City Treasurer shall have supervision and control of the Finance
Department. The City Manager may determine that the City Treasurer shall also
serve as City Clerk, in which case, such officer shall be known as the "City
Clerk-Treasurer." There shall be such employees in the Finance Department as
the Council may authorize.
(Code 1991, § 2-401)
Charter reference- Powers of the Council,
Art. II, § 4; City Clerk,
Art. II, § 7; City Treasurer,
Art. II, § 8; fiscal affairs,
Art. IV, § 1.
Sec 2-147 Powers, Duties, And Functions Of City Treasurer
In addition to the powers, duties, and functions provided by law, the Charter,
or ordinance, the City Treasurer shall disburse the funds that have been
received by the City in accordance with law, the Charter, or ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 2-403)
Sec 2-148 Powers, Duties, And Functions Of City Clerk
In addition to the powers, duties, and functions provided by law, the Charter,
or ordinance, the City Clerk shall:
   A.   Deposit daily all revenue and other money that he collects or receives
for the City.
   B.   Serve as the clerical officer of the Council.
   C.   Attend all Council meetings.
   D.   Attest the signature of the Mayor or the Vice-Mayor.
   E.   Maintain a general accounting system for the City.
(Code 1991, § 2-402)
DIVISION 2-5-3 CONTRACTS; PURCHASES
   
2-171   Competitive Bidding
Charter reference- Contracts, purchases, sales,
Art. IV, § 3 et seq.
Sec 2-171 Competitive Bidding
   A.   The City shall adhere to the provisions of 61 O.S. § 101 et seq., when
determining when competitive bidding is required and the manner in which
competitive bids will be obtained.
   B.   If the City Charter provides for additional competitive bidding
requirements, such additional requirements shall be met.
   C.   In addition to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section,
public trusts created pursuant to 60 O.S. § 176, of which the City is
beneficiary, shall also follow the competitive bidding provisions of 60 O.S. §
176(H).
(Ord. No. 94-01, § 1, 2-7-1994)
ARTICLE 2-6 CITY RECORDS
   
2-196   Appointment Of Official Custodian
   
2-197   Designation And Duties Of Record Custodians
Sec 2-196 Appointment Of Official Custodian
The City Clerk shall be the Official Custodian for the purposes of the Oklahoma
Open Records Act (51 O.S. § 24A.1 et seq.) and is charged with responsibility
for compliance with that act with respect to all public records in his office
and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this article.
(Code 1991, § 2-601)
Sec 2-197 Designation And Duties Of Record Custodians
   A.   The Official Custodian appointed in Section
2-196 of this Code is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate officers
or employees to serve as Record Custodian.
   B.   The Record Custodians shall have such duties and powers as are set out
in the Oklahoma Open Records Act and by resolution of the City Council.
(Code 1991, §§ 2-602, 2-603)
Charter reference- Public records, Art. VII, § 6.
ARTICLE 2-7 RETIREMENT; PENSIONS
DIVISION 2-7-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 2-7-2 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
DIVISION 2-7-1 GENERALLY
   
2-226   Police Pension System
Sec 2-226 Police Pension System
There is hereby created a local Police Pension and Retirement Board. The board
shall have the membership, organization, powers, duties, and functions and the
fund shall operate as prescribed by 11 O.S. § 50-101 et seq. The system shall
operate in accordance with applicable State law.
(Code 1991, § 2-805)
State Law reference- Police pension and retirement system, 11 O.S. § 50-101 et
seq.
DIVISION 2-7-2 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
   
2-251   Definitions
   
2-252   Administration
   
2-253   Funds
   
2-254   Appropriations
State Law reference- Authority of city to establish a retirement fund and
system, procedure, 11 O.S. § 48-101 et seq.
Sec 2-251 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   System and plan means the employee retirement system of the City.
(Code 1991, § 2-810)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec 2-252 Administration
The system shall be administered by a Board of Trustees, which shall be
composed of the members of the City Council. The Board of Trustees shall have
such powers as may be necessary to delegate, specify, direct, and supervise the
performance of the system.
(Code 1991, § 2-811)
Sec 2-253 Funds
Funds are hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the person
entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such funds shall be
paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the fund administrators
of the plan, as appointed by the Board of Trustees.
(Code 1991, § 2-812)
Sec 2-254 Appropriations
The City is hereby authorized to incur the necessary expenses for the
establishment, operation, and administration of the retirement system and to
appropriate and pay the same. In addition, the City is hereby authorized to
appropriate annually such amounts as are required, in addition to any employee
contributions, to maintain its amended retirement system and funds on a sound
actuarial basis in accordance with the respective annual actuarial valuation.
Any appropriation so made to maintain the system and funds shall be made to
maintain the system and funds shall be for deferred wages or salaries or the
payment of necessary expenses of operation and administration.
(Code 1991, § 2-813)
ARTICLE 2-8 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
   
2-260   Identity Theft Prevention Program
Sec 2-260 Identity Theft Prevention Program
To comply with 16 CFR § 681.2 and in order to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft by identifying and detecting identity theft red flags and by
responding to such red flags in a manner that will prevent identity theft, the
City of Purcell will establish and implement an identity theft prevention
program (ITPP), including:
   A.   A written policy and procedures of the ITPP outlining the process of
establishing a covered account, providing access to covered account
information, receiving credit card payments, identifying sources and types of
identity theft red flags, and preventing and mitigating identity theft will be
developed and implemented; and
   B.   An annual report will be submitted each year for approval at the first
City Council meeting in April. The report will include any findings and actions
taken in the ITPP during the previous year and will also include any updates to
the ITPP policies and procedures made during the previous year.
(Ord. No. 09-03, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 6 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
ARTICLE 6-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 6-2 OCCUPATION TAX
ARTICLE 6-3 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
ARTICLE 6-4 LOW-POINT BEER
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18; consuming or inhaling intoxicants in public places, §
70-106; intoxicating liquors, §
70-107.
State Law reference- Intoxicating liquors, 37 O.S.; regulation by
municipalities, 37 O.S. §§ 219. 503, 528.1, 528.2, 554.1; notice to
municipalities of applications for licenses, 37 O.S. § 517; intoxicated person
in public places, 43A O.S. § 3-428.
ARTICLE 6-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
6-1   Penalty
   
6-2   Purposes Of Chapter
   
6-3   Statutes Adopted
   
6-4   Definitions
   
6-5   Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages On Premises Of Retail Alcoholic
Beverage Storage Not Allowed
   
6-6   Consumption And Intoxication Prohibited
   
6-7   Place And Manner Of Sale And Delivery
   
6-8   Compliance With Zoning Regulations
   
6-9   Prohibited Location
   
6-10   Misrepresentation Of Age
   
6-11   Hours Of Sale
   
6-12   Employee Not To Permit Intoxicated Person In Cafe, Club
   
6-13   Employee Solicitation Prohibited
   
6-14   Nudity
   
6-15   Possession By Minors
   
6-16   Mixed Beverage, Caterer, Combination Mixed Beverage/Caterer And Special
Event License
   
6-17   Levied; Service Organizations
   
6-18   When Due And Posting
   
6-19   Timely Payments
   
6-20   Fee Schedule For Licenses And Permits And Occupational Taxes
   
6-21   Application For Certificate; Investigations
   
6-22   Issuance Of Certificate Of Zoning And Certificate Of Compliance
HISTORY
   Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-1 Penalty
Any licensee, owner, manager, or employee of a licensed business or
establishment, or any other person, who violates any provision of this chapter
is guilty of an offense against the City and, upon conviction of such offense,
the violator shall be punished as provided in Section
1-12 of the City of Purcell code of ordinances.
(Code 1991, §§ 3-120(B), 3-126)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-2 Purposes Of Chapter
This chapter is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the City to
preserve the public peace, safety, health, and good order thereof and to aid
the enforcement of the policy of the State as established by the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act found in Title 37 A of the Oklahoma Statutes and
to establish annual occupation taxes upon all persons engaged in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
(Code 1991, § 3-101)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-3 Statutes Adopted
The Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act found in Title 37A of the Oklahoma
Statutes is hereby adopted as a part of this ordinance the same as if set out
at length, except for the provisions of such act that cannot be made applicable
to the City and the provisions that may be modified herein.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-4 Definitions
   A.   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      1.   ABLE Commission or Commission means the Alcoholic Beverage Laws
Enforcement Commission.
      2.   Alcohol means and includes hydrated oxide of ethyl, ethyl alcohol,
ethanol or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process
produced. It does not include wood alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured
or produced as denatured in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
      3.   Alcoholic beverage means alcohol, spirits, beer and wine as those
terms are defined herein and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or
not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable of being consumed as
a beverage by human beings.
      4.   Applicant means any individual, legal or commercial business entity,
or any individual involved in any legal or commercial business entity allowed
to hold any license issued in accordance with the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act.
      5.   Beer means any beverage of alcohol by volume and obtained by the
alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or decoction of barley, or other grain,
malt or similar products. "Beer" may or may not contain hops or other vegetable
products. "Beer" includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer,
porter and other malt or brewed liquors, but does not include sake, known as
Japanese rice wine.
      6.   Beer keg means any manufacturer-sealed, single container that
contains not less than four (4) gallons of beer.
      7.   Beer distributor means and includes any person licensed to
distribute beer for retail sale in the state, but does not include a holder of
a small brewer self-distribution license or brewpub self-distribution license.
The term "distributor", as used in this section, shall be construed to refer to
a beer distributor.
      8.   Bottle club means any establishment in a county which has not
authorized the retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the individual drink,
which is required to be licensed to keep, mix and serve alcoholic beverages
belonging to club members on club premises.
      9.   Brand means any word, name, group of letters, symbol or combination
thereof, that is adopted and used by a licensed manufacturer to identify a
specific beer and to distinguish that product from another beer.
      10.   Brewer means and includes any person who manufactures for human
consumption by the use of raw materials or other ingredients any beer upon
which a license fee and a tax are imposed by any law of this state.
      11.   Brewpub means a licensed establishment operated on the premises of,
or on premises located contiguous to, a small brewer, that prepares and serves
food and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, for on-premises consumption.
      12.   Caterer's license means a caterer's license shall authorize the
holder thereof to purchase or sell mixed beverages as provided by Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act Title 37A O.S. in conjunction with a catering
business.
      13.   Cider means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the alcoholic
fermentation of fruit juice, including but not limited to flavored, sparkling
or carbonated cider. For the purposes of the distribution of this product,
cider may be distributed by either wine and spirits wholesalers or beer
distributors.
      14.   Combination mixed beverage/caterer license means a combination
mixed beverage/caterer license shall authorize the holder thereof to purchase
or sell mixed beverages as provided for a mixed beverage license and/or a
caterer's license holder.
      15.   Convenience store means any person primarily engaged in retailing a
limited range of general household items and groceries, with extended hours of
operation, whether or not engaged in retail sales of automotive fuels in
combination with such sales.
      16.   Convicted and conviction mean and include a finding of guilt
resulting from a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the decision of a court or
magistrate or the verdict of a jury, irrespective of the pronouncement of
judgment or the suspension thereof.
      17.   Distiller means any person who produces spirits from any source or
substance, or any person who brews or makes mash, wo11 or wash, fit for
distillation or for the production of spirits (except a person making or using
such material in the authorized production of wine or beer, or the production
of vinegar by fermentation), or any person who by any process separates
alcoholic spirits from any fermented substance, or any person who, making or
keeping mash, wort or wash, has also in his or her possession or use a still.
      18.   Distributor agreement means the written agreement between the
distributor and manufacturer as set forth in Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act.
      19.   Fair market value means the value in the subject territory covered
by the written agreement with the distributor or wholesaler that would be
determined in an arm's length transaction entered into without duress or threat
of termination of the distributor's or wholesaler's rights and shall include
all elements of value, including goodwill and going concern value.
      20.   Good cause means:
         a.   failure by the distributor to comply with the material and
reasonable provisions of a written agreement or understanding with the
manufacturer, or
         b.   failure by the distributor to comply with the duty of good faith.
      21.   Good faith means the duty of each party to any distributor
agreement and all officers, employees or agents thereof to act with honesty in
fact and within reasonable standards of fair dealing in the trade.
      22.   Grocery store means a person primarily engaged in retailing a
general line of food, such as canned or frozen foods, fresh fruits and
vegetables, and fresh and prepared meats, fish and poultry.
      23.   Hotel or motel means an establishment which is licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages by the individual drink and which contains guestroom
accommodations with respect to which the predominant relationship existing
between the occupants thereof and the owner or operator of the establishment is
that of innkeeper and guest. For purposes of this section, the existence of
other legal relationships as between some occupants and the owner or operator
thereof shall be immaterial.
      24.   Legal newspaper means a newspaper meeting the requisites of a
newspaper for publication of legal notices as prescribed in Sections 101
through 114 of Title 25 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
      25.   Licensee means any person holding a license under the Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, and any agent, servant or employee of such
licensee while in the performance of any act or duty in connection with the
licensed business or on the licensed premises.
      26.   Manufacturer means a brewer, distiller, winemaker, rectifier or
bottler of any alcoholic beverage and its subsidiaries, affiliates and parent
companies.
      27.   Manufacturer's agent means a salaried or commissioned salesperson
who is the agent authorized to act on behalf of the manufacturer or nonresident
seller in the state.
      28.   Meals means foods commonly ordered at lunch or dinner and at least
part of which is cooked on the licensed premises and requires the use of dining
implements for consumption. Provided, that the service of only food such as
appetizers, sandwiches, salads or desserts shall not be considered "meals".
      29.   Mini-bar means a closed container, either refrigerated in whole or
in part, or non-refrigerated, and access to the interior of which is:
         a.   restricted by means of a locking device which requires the use of
a key, magnetic card or similar device, or
         b.   controlled at all times by the licensee.
      30.   Minor means a person who, in accordance with State law, has not yet
attained the age at which consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted.
      31.   Mixed beverages means one or more servings of a beverage composed
in whole or part of an alcoholic beverage in a sealed or unsealed container of
any legal size for consumption on the premises where served or sold by the
holder of a mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, charitable
event or special event license.
      32.   Mixed beverage cooler means any beverage, by whatever name
designated, consisting of an alcoholic beverage and fruit or vegetable juice,
fruit or vegetable flavorings, dairy products or carbonated water containing
more than one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of alcohol measured by volume but
not more than seven percent (7%) alcohol by volume at sixty (60) degrees
Fahrenheit and which is packaged in a container not larger than three hundred
seventy-five (375) milliliters. Such term shall include but not be limited to
the beverage popularly known as a "wine cooler".
      33.   Mixed beverage license means a mixed beverage license shall
authorize the holder thereof to purchase or sell mixed beverages as provided by
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act for consumption on the premises where
served or sold by the mixed beverage license holder.
      34.   Motion picture theater means an establishment which is licensed by
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act to sell alcoholic beverages by the
individual drink and where motion pictures are exhibited, and to which the
general public is admitted.
      35.   Nonresident seller means any person licensed pursuant to Oklahoma
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
      36.   Retail salesperson means a salesperson soliciting orders from and
calling upon retail alcoholic beverage stores with regard to his or her
product.
      37.   Occupation as used in connection with occupation tax means the
sites occupied as the places of business of the manufacturers, wholesalers,
beer distributors, retailers, mixed beverage licensees, on-premises beer and
wine licensees, bottle clubs, caterers, public event and special event
licensees.
      38.   Original package means any container of alcoholic beverage filled
and stamped or sealed by the manufacturer.
      39.   Package store means any sole proprietor or partnership that
qualifies to sell wine, beer and/or spirits for off-premise consumption and
that is not a grocery store, convenience store or drugstore, or other retail
outlet that is not permitted to sell wine or beer for off-premise consumption.
      40.   Patron means any person, customer or visitor who is not employed by
a licensee or who is not a licensee.
      41.   Person means an individual, any type of partnership, corporation,
association, limited liability company or any individual involved in the legal
structure of any such business entity.
      42.   Premises means the grounds and all buildings and appurtenances
pertaining to the grounds including any adjacent premises if under the direct
or indirect control of the licensee and the rooms and equipment under the
control of the licensee and used in connection with or in furtherance of the
business covered by a license. Provided that the ABLE Commission shall have the
authority to designate areas to be excluded from the licensed premises solely
for the purpose of:
         a.   allowing the presence and consumption of alcoholic beverages by
private parties which are closed to the general public, or
         b.   allowing the services of a caterer serving alcoholic beverages
provided by a private party.
This exception shall in no way limit the licensee's concurrent responsibility
for any violations of the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act occurring on
the licensed premises.
      43.   Private event means a social gathering or event attended by invited
guests who share a common cause, membership, business or task and have a prior
established relationship. For purposes of this definition, advertisement for
general public attendance or sales of tickets to the general public shall not
constitute a private event.
      44.   Public event means any event that can be attended by the general
public.
      45.   Rectifier means any person who rectifies, purifies or refines
spirits or wines by any process (other than by original and continuous
distillation, or original and continuous processing, from mash, wort, wash or
other substance, through continuous closed vessels and pipes, until the
production thereof is complete), and any person who, without rectifying,
purifying or refining spirits, shall by mixing (except for immediate
consumption on the premises where mixed) such spirits, wine or other liquor
with any material, manufactures any spurious, imitation or compound liquors for
sale, under the name of whiskey, brandy, rum, gin, wine, spirits, cordials or
any other name.
      46.   Regulation or rule means a formal rule of general application
promulgated by the ABLE Commission as herein required.
      47.   Restaurant means an establishment that is licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages by the individual drink for on-premises consumption and
where food is prepared and sold for immediate consumption on the premises.
      48.   Retail container for spirits and wines means an original package of
any capacity approved by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms.
      49.   Retailer or retail alcoholic beverage stores means a package store,
grocery store, convenience store or drugstore licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages for off-premise consumption pursuant to a Retail Spirits License,
Retail Wine License or Retail Beer License.
      50.   Sale means any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any
means whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
as principal, proprietor or as an agent, servant or employee. The term "sale"
is also declared to be and include the use or consumption in this state of any
alcoholic beverage obtained within or imported from without this state, upon
which the excise tax levied by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act has
not been paid or exempted.
      51.   Short-order food means food other than full meals including but not
limited to sandwiches, soups and salads. Provided that popcorn, chips and other
similar snack food shall not be considered "short-order food".
      52.   Small brewer means a brewer who manufactures less than sixty-five
thousand (65,000) barrels of beer annually pursuant to a validly issued Small
Brewer License hereunder.
      53.   Small farm wine means a wine that is produced by a small farm
winery with seventy-five percent (75%) or more Oklahoma-grown grapes, berries,
other fruits, honey or vegetables.
      54.   Small farm winery means a wine-making establishment that does not
annually produce for sale more than fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons of wine
as reported on the United States Department of the Treasury, Alcohol and
Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Report of Wine Premises Operations (TTB Form
5120.17).
      55.   Sparkling wine means champagne or any artificially carbonated wine.
      56.   Special event means an entertainment, recreation or marketing event
that occurs at a single location on an irregular basis and at which alcoholic
beverages are sold.
      57.   Special event license. A special event license may be issued to an
organization, association, or nonprofit corporation organized for political,
fraternal, charitable, religious or social purposes. The holder of a special
event license is authorized to sell and distribute alcoholic beverage on the
premise for which the license is issued. No special event license may be issued
for any premises already licensed by the ABLE commission. A special event
license shall be valid for a period not to exceed ten (10) consecutive days and
no qualified organization may obtain more than one (1) such license in a 90-day
period. Prior to obtaining the City's approval, a special event license must be
issued by the alcoholic beverage laws enforcement commission.
      58.   Spirits means any beverage other than wine or beer, which contains
more than one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol measured by volume, and
obtained by distillation, whether or not mixed with other substances in
solution and includes those products known as whiskey, brand y, rum, gin,
vodka, liqueurs, cordials and fortified wines and similar compounds, but shall
not include any alcohol liquid completely denatured in accordance with the Acts
of Congress and regulations pursuant thereto.
      59.   State licensee means any person holding a license issued under the
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act Title 37A O.S., and any agent, servant,
or employee of such licensee while in the performance of any act or duty in
connection with the licensed business or on the licensed premises.
      60.   Strong beer means beer which, prior to October 1, 2018, was
distributed pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, Section
501 et seq. of Title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
      61.   Successor manufacturer means a primary source of supply, a brewer
or an importer that acquires rights to a beer brand from a predecessor
manufacturer.
      62.   Tax Commission means the Oklahoma Tax Commission.
      63.   Territory means a geographic region with a specified boundary.
      64.   Wine and spirits wholesaler or wine and spirits distributor means
and includes any sole proprietorship or partnership licensed to distribute wine
and spirits in the state. The term "wholesaler", as used in this act, shall be
construed to refer to a wine and spirits wholesaler.
      65.   Wine means and includes any beverage containing more than one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol by volume and not more than twenty-four
percent (24%) alcohol by volume at sixty (60) degrees Fahrenheit obtained by
the fermentation of the natural contents of fruits, vegetables, honey, milk or
other products containing sugar, whether or not other ingredients are added,
and includes vermouth and sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Words in the plural include the singular, and vice versa, and words imparting
the masculine gender include the feminine, as well as persons and licensees as
defined in this section.
   B.   The terms and phrases used in this chapter shall be given the same use
and meaning as defined by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37 O.S.
§ 502 et seq.).
(Code 1991, § 3-102)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 37 O.S. § 506(14).
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-5 Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages On Premises Of Retail Alcoholic
Beverage Storage Not Allowed
No person owning, employed in, or in any manner assisting in the maintenance
and operation of a retail alcoholic beverage store shall suffer or permit any
alcoholic beverage to be consumed or any retail container of such beverage to
be opened on the premises of such a store.
(Code 1991, § 3-109(B))
State Law reference- Package store license, 37 O.S. § 534.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-6 Consumption And Intoxication Prohibited
   A.   No person shall open or break the seal of any original package or
retail container containing alcoholic beverages on the premises of any retail
alcoholic beverage store.
   B.   Designating locations. No person shall drink intoxicating liquor, any
alcoholic beverage or mixed beverage in any public place except on such places
which are licensed for the sale of such beverages by the holder of a State
license and, also, the holder of a City license authorizing the sale or serving
of such alcoholic beverages and mixed beverages by the individual drink. No
person shall be intoxicated in any public place.
(Code 1991, §§ 3-110, 3-118; Ord. No. 07-04, § 2, 1-8-2007)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-7 Place And Manner Of Sale And Delivery
No person shall sell at retail or otherwise, and no person shall deliver, in
consequence of or in completion of such a sale, any alcoholic beverages at any
place in the City except at a retail alcoholic beverage store in strict
conformity with this chapter and the laws of the State.
(Code 1991, § 3-111)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-8 Compliance With Zoning Regulations
No retail alcoholic beverage store, no bottle club, and no warehouse, brewery,
distillery, winery, or any other place, however described, where the
manufacture or production or bottling of alcoholic beverages of any kind, shall
be located, maintained, or operated by any person at any place within the
boundaries of the City except at a location at which such an establishment is
permitted or authorized by the zoning regulations of the City. No person shall
own, operate, maintain, or be interested in any retail alcoholic beverage store
which is located at a place within the City limits of the City which is in
violation of or forbidden as a location by the City or under the laws of the
State.
(Code 1991, § 3-112)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-9 Prohibited Location
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any mixed beverage establishment, beer and
wine establishment, or bottle club which has been licensed by the State of
Oklahoma and which has as its main purpose the selling or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises or for a retail package store to be
located within three hundred (300) feet of any public or private school or
church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities. The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such public or private school or church to the nearest
perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage establishment, beer
and wine establishment, bottle club, or retail package store which has been
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments, or bottle
clubs which have been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises
consumption or retail package stores prior to October 1, 2018; provided, if at
the time of application for license renewal the licensed location has not been
in actual operation for a continuous period of more than sixty (60) days, the
license shall not be renewed. If any school or church shall be established
within three hundred (300) feet of any retail package store, mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment, or bottle club subject to the
provisions of this section after such retail package store, mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment, or bottle club has been licensed,
the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the renewal of such
license if there has not been a lapse of more than sixty (60) days. When any
mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment, or bottle club
subject to the provisions of this section which has a license to sell alcoholic
beverages for on-premises consumption or retail package store changes ownership
or the operator thereof is changed and such change of ownership results in the
same type of business being conducted on the premises, the provisions of this
section shall not be a deterrent to the issuance of a license to the new owner
or operator if he is otherwise qualified.
   B.   A license shall not be issued for a location on any city block where a
school or church is located. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments, or bottle clubs
which have been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises
consumption or retail package stores prior to October 1, 2018.
(Code 1991, § 3-113)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 37 O.S. § 51(B)(3)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-10 Misrepresentation Of Age
No minor shall misrepresent his/her age verbally or otherwise for the purpose
of inducing any other person to sell him/her alcoholic beverages.
(Code 1991, § 3-114(A))
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-11 Hours Of Sale
A business offering for sale any alcoholic beverages, must comply with the
Oklahoma ABLE Commission's hours of operation for that type of business.
(Code 1991, § 3-117(B))
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-12 Employee Not To Permit Intoxicated Person In Cafe, Club
No employee engaged in connection with the operation of a cafe, restaurant,
club, or place of recreation within the City shall permit any person to be
drunk or intoxicated in the place of business.
(Code 1991, § 3-119)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-13 Employee Solicitation Prohibited
It is unlawful for any licensee, owner, manager, or employee of any business or
establishment licensed pursuant to provisions of the Oklahoma Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act to permit an employee to solicit a patron to purchase an
alcoholic or nonalcoholic beverage for the employee or any other employee or
knowingly serve any employee with a beverage purchased by a patron or permit
any employee to remain on the licensed premises who solicits a patron to
purchase a beverage for himself/herself or for any person not a patron or
permit an employee to mingle or fraternize with patrons of such licensed
business or establishment except in the furtherance of service of food or
drinks.
(Code 1991, § 3-120(A))
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-14 Nudity
It is unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity in any business or
establishment licensed pursuant to the provisions of the Oklahoma Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act as cited in section 6-3.
(Code 1991, § 3-121(A))
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-15 Possession By Minors
It shall be unlawful for any minor to be in the possession of any alcoholic
beverage while such person is upon any public street, road, or highway or in
any public building or place.
(Code 1991, § 3-125)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1215.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-16 Mixed Beverage, Caterer, Combination Mixed Beverage/Caterer And
Special Event License
The holder of a license pursuant to this ordinance shall abide by all of the
Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act Rules and requirements, and shall abide
by the rules and requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 07-04, § 1, 1-8-2007)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-17 Levied; Service Organizations
   A.   Except as to persons who are exempt under State law, there is hereby
levied an annual alcoholic beverage occupation tax not to exceed the amounts
indicated in the fee schedule adopted by the City Council in section
6-20 B or as may be amended later by resolution or ordinance.
   B.   The amount of the occupation tax on service organizations that are
exempt under section 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code for mixed beverage
or bottle club licenses shall be as adopted in the fee schedule.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-18 When Due And Posting
   A.   Any State licensee originally entering upon any occupation taxed under
this article shall pay the tax therefore at the office of the City Clerk or
his/her designee on or before the date upon which he/she enters upon such
occupation. The licensee shall provide a copy of his/her current State license
before payment of an occupation tax will be accepted. All occupation taxes are
payable annually before July 1 and shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   B.   Any State licensee carrying on his/her occupation in more than one
location within the city limits of the City shall be subject to the tax set out
for each such location.
   C.   Upon payment of the occupation tax as set out, the City Clerk or his/
her designee shall issue a receipt to the State licensee, which licensee shall
post in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he/she carries on his/her
occupation. The City Clerk or his/her designee shall also record the name of
such licensee and the address where he/she engages in his/her occupation, and
such records shall be duly filed and kept in the permanent files of that office
for at least three (3) years. Thereafter, upon approval of the City Council,
the records may be destroyed.
   D.   The City Clerk or his/her designee shall make and transmit to the State
Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission an annual report covering
the fiscal year and showing the number and class of licensees subject to such
tax and the amount of money received therefrom.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-19 Timely Payments
Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by this chapter without
first paying the occupation tax imposed therefor in advance of such operation
is guilty of an offense against the City and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code. A penalty in the form of increased tax not to exceed double
the occupational tax may be levied upon any person not paying the tax within
fifteen (15) days after it is due.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-20 Fee Schedule For Licenses And Permits And Occupational Taxes
   A.   The fee schedule hereinafter set forth shall be levied and collected by
the City Clerk or his/her designee for the applicable license, fees, permits,
or occupational tax levies, prior to the issuance of any such license permit or
conducting of the business of serving alcoholic beverages.
   B.   Occupational Taxes relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages are set
forth as follows:
   Brewer License   $1,250.00
   Small Brewer License   $125.00
   Distiller License   $3,125.00
   Winemaker License   $625.00
   Small Farm Winery License   $75.00
   Rectifier License   $3,125.00
   Wine and Spirits Wholesaler License   $3,000.00
   Beer Distributor License   $750.00
   Retail Spirits License   $450.00
   Retail Wine License   $250.00
   Retail Beer License   $250.00
   Mixed Beverage License (initial license) (renewal)   $1,005.00
                           $905.00
   Mixed Beverage/Caterer Combination License   $1,250.00
   On-Premises Beer and Wine License (initial license) (renewal)   $500.00
                                 $450.00
   Bottle Club License (initial license) (renewal)   $1,000.00
                        $900.00
   Caterer License (initial license) (renewal)   $1,005.00
                        $905.00
   Annual Special Event License   $55.00
   Quarterly Special Event License   $55.00
   Hotel Beverage License (initial license (renewal)   $1,005.00
                           $905.00
These taxes may be modified by the City Council by either ordinance or
resolution.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-21 Application For Certificate; Investigations
   A.   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the zoning, fire,
health, and safety codes of the City required by state law shall apply at the
office of the City Clerk or his/her designee by:
      1.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office, and
      2.   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount set by the
Council at the time of filing.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
City shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the premises
proposed for licensed operations complies with the provisions of the zoning
ordinances and any health, fire, building, and other safety codes applicable to
it.
   C.   The City shall act on all such applications within twenty (20) days of
receipt thereof.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
Sec 6-22 Issuance Of Certificate Of Zoning And Certificate Of Compliance
   A.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate are in
compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning shall
be issued to the applicant.
   B.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate are in
compliance with all applicable fire, safety, and health codes, a certificate of
compliance shall be issued to the applicant.
   C.   The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by the City
Manager or by the City Clerk or his/her designee.
   D.   A conditional certificate may be granted if construction, modification,
or alteration of the premises proposed for licensed operations is not
completed. The conditional certificate shall indicate that the proposed
premises will comply with City zoning, fire, safety, and health codes. A
certificate in accordance with subsections A and B of this section shall be
issued within ten (10) days after all final inspections are complete.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 19-03 on 5/6/2019
ARTICLE 6-2 OCCUPATION TAX
   
6-41   Levied; Service Organizations
   
6-42   When Due And Posting
   
6-43   Timely Payments
Sec 6-41 Levied; Service Organizations
   A.   Except as to persons who are exempt under State law, there is hereby
levied an annual alcoholic beverage occupation tax not to exceed the amounts
indicated in the fee schedule adopted by the City Council.
   B.   The amount of the occupation tax on service organizations that are
exempt under section 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code for mixed beverage
or bottle club licenses shall be as adopted in the fee schedule.
(Code 1991, § 3-103)
State Law reference- Municipal alcoholic beverage occupation taxes,
restriction, 37 O.S. § 554.1.
Sec 6-42 When Due And Posting
   A.   Any State licensee originally entering upon any occupation taxed under
this article shall pay the tax therefore at the office of the City Clerk on or
before the date upon which he enters upon such occupation. The licensee shall
provide a copy of his current State license before payment of an occupation tax
will be accepted. All occupation taxes are payable annually before July 1 and
shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   B.   Any State licensee carrying on his occupation in more than one location
within the city limits of the City shall be subject to the tax set out for each
such location.
   C.   Upon payment of the occupation tax as set out, the City Clerk shall
issue a receipt to the State licensee, which licensee shall post in a
conspicuous place on the premises wherein he carries on his occupation. The
City Clerk shall also record the name of such licensee and the address where he
engages in his occupation, and such records shall be duly filed and kept in the
permanent files of that office for at least three (3) years. Thereafter, upon
approval of the City Council, the records may be destroyed.
   D.   The City Clerk shall make and transmit to the State Alcoholic Beverage
Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission an annual report covering the fiscal year
and showing the number and class of licensees subject to such tax and the
amount of money received therefrom.
(Code 1991, § 3-104)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 37 O.S. § 554.1.
Sec 6-43 Timely Payments
Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by this chapter without
first paying the occupation tax imposed therefor in advance of such operation
is guilty of an offense against the City and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code. A penalty in the form of increased tax may be levied upon
any person not paying the tax within fifteen (15) days after it is due.
(Code 1991, § 3-105)
ARTICLE 6-3 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
   
6-71   Application For Certificate; Investigations
   
6-72   Issuance Of Certificate Of Zoning And Certificate Of Compliance
Sec 6-71 Application For Certificate; Investigations
   A.   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the zoning, fire,
health, and safety codes of the City required by 37 O.S. § 523 shall apply at
the office of the City Clerk by:
      1.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office; and
      2.   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount set by the
Council at the time of filing.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
City shall cause an investigation to be made to determine whether the premises
proposed for licensed operations comply with the provisions of the zoning
ordinance and any health, fire, building, and other safety codes applicable to
it.
   C.   The City shall act on all such applications within twenty (20) days of
receipt thereof.
(Code 1991, § 3-107)
Sec 6-72 Issuance Of Certificate Of Zoning And Certificate Of Compliance
   A.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate are in
compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a certificate of zoning shall
be issued to the applicant.
   B.   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate are in
compliance with all applicable fire, safety, and health codes, a certificate of
compliance shall be issued to the applicant.
   C.   The above certificates of compliance shall be signed by the Mayor or by
the City Clerk.
   D.   A conditional certificate may be granted if construction, modification,
or alteration of the premises proposed for licensed operations is not
completed. The conditional certificate shall indicate that the proposed
premises will comply with City zoning, fire, safety, and health codes. A
certificate in accordance with subsections (A) and (B) of this section shall be
issued within ten (10) days after all final inspections are complete.
(Code 1991, § 3-108)
Cross reference- Zoning, Ch.
122.
ARTICLE 6-4 LOW-POINT BEER
   
6-96   Definitions
   
6-97   Hours Of Sale
   
6-98   License Required
   
6-99   License Fees
   
6-100   Sale To Minors
   
6-101   Possession By Minors
   
6-102   Employment Of Persons Under Eighteen (18) Years Of Age In Place Where
Low-Point Beer Is Sold Or Dispensed
   
6-103   Permitting Minors To Frequent Bars
   
6-104   Unlawful Transportation
   
6-105   Location Of Low-Point Beer Licensee For On-Premises Consumption;
Prohibitions
   
6-106   Prohibited Acts
   
6-107   Penalty
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 37 O.S. § 163.2. 101 et seq.
Sec 6-96 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Low-point beer means and includes beverages containing more than one-
half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume and not more than 3.2 percent
alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or cereal malt beverages
obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley or other grain,
malt, or similar products.
   B.   Minor means a person who, according to State law, has not yet attained
the age at which consumption of low-point beer is permitted under State law.
   C.   Person means and includes an individual, a trust or estate, a
partnership, an association, or a corporation.
   D.   Place of business means each separate location or service unit in which
or from which low-point beer is sold, delivered, or otherwise furnished.
   E.   Possession means, under the terms of this chapter, actual physical
possession and shall further include any low-point beer accessible or within
the range of reach of hands of any such person.
   F.   Retail dealer means and includes any person who sells any low-point
beer, as defined in this section, at retail for consumption or use, and such
definition includes State and County fair associations, and special licenses
may be issued for the sale of low-point beer by such associations and to other
persons for the sale of such low-point beer at rodeos, picnics, or other
organized, temporary assemblages of people. The term "retail dealer" also
includes railways for the sale of such beverages, and licenses may be issued
for each dining car or railway train, which railways and dining cars shall pay
the same license fees as regular retail dealers.
(Code 1991, §§ 3-201, 3-206(A))
State Law reference- Low-point beer, 37 O.S. § 163.1 et seq.
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec 6-97 Hours Of Sale
It is unlawful for any owner, firm, person, operator, corporation, proprietor,
or manager of any premises or place in which the principal business is that of
selling low-point beer for consumption on the premises to barter, sell,
dispense, or otherwise furnish low-point beer for consumption on the premises
of his place of business between the hours of 2:00 a.m. Sunday and 12:00 noon
Sunday, or between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any other day.
(Code 1991, § 3-202)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 37 O.S. § 213.
Sec 6-98 License Required
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to sell, distribute, or
dispense within the City any low-point beer to the public for consumption or
use without first having obtained a license therefor from the City Clerk. Every
person desiring to engage in business as a retail dealer in low-point beer or
to continue in the business within the City shall make application to the City
Clerk on forms to be provided, setting forth the locations of the business,
together with the applicant's address, and if a corporation, the name of the
president and managing officer. The application shall show the date and permit
number of the permits issued by the district court judge and the State tax
commission as required by law.
   B.   Upon a showing that the applicant has obtained his permits from the
district court judge and the State tax commission and after payment of the
license fee to the City, such license shall be issued forthwith. All licenses
shall expire on June 30 of each year. Licenses issued under this section shall
not be assignable or transferable, and the fee shall not be prorated for part
of the year. The City license shall be displayed in the licensee's place of
business. The license may be canceled for any violation of the laws of the
State for which the licensee's County or State license may be canceled and in a
similar manner.
(Code 1991, § 3-204)
Sec 6-99 License Fees
There is hereby levied on each retail dealer in low-point beer within the City
selling such beverages for consumption on or off the premises of the dealer's
place of business a license fee per annum, as set by the City's fee schedule,
and on each retail dealer selling such beverages exclusively in original
packages (of not less than case lots) and not for consumption on his premises,
a license fee per annum as set by the City's fee schedule. A separate license
fee shall be paid for each place of business, as defined in Section
6-96, operated and conducted by the retail dealer.
State Law reference- Municipal license fees, 37 O.S. § 163.10.
Sec 6-100 Sale To Minors
It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer, give away, procure for, barter,
or otherwise dispense to any minor any low-point beer, or any other
intoxicating alcoholic beverage, or for any minor to purchase, receive, or
procure any low-point beer, or any other intoxicating alcoholic beverage.
(Code 1991, § 3-205; Ord. No. 10-01, 1-4-2010)
Sec 6-101 Possession By Minors
It is unlawful for a minor to be in possession of any low-point beer, or any
other intoxicating alcoholic beverage, while such person is upon any public
street, avenue, alley, road, highway, or public building or place.
(Code 1991, § 3-206(B); Ord. No. 10-01, 1-4-2010)
Sec 6-102 Employment Of Persons Under Eighteen (18) Years Of Age In Place Where
Low-Point Beer Is Sold Or Dispensed
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under eighteen (18) years of age to
be employed or permitted to work, in any capacity whatsoever, in a place where
low- point beer is sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under eighteen (18) years of age to
be employed or permitted to work, in any capacity whatsoever, in the separate
or enclosed bar area of a place where the main purpose of the area is the sale
or consumption of low-point beer. The provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to any area which has as its main purpose some objective other than the
sale of serving of low-point beer in which sales or serving of such beverages
are incidental to the main purpose; however, the incidental service of food in
the bar area shall not exempt a holder of a license to sell low-point beer for
consumption on the premises from the provisions of this subsection.
   C.   A parent as regards the employment of his own child or children is
excepted from the provisions of this section, provided that such employment
shall in no capacity whatsoever be related to the selling or dispensing of such
beverages.
   D.   The provisions of subsection (A) of this section shall not apply to any
business or establishment where sales of such beverages do not exceed twenty-
five percent (25%) of the gross sales of the business or establishment.
(Code 1991, § 3-207)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 37 O.S. § 243.
Sec 6-103 Permitting Minors To Frequent Bars
It shall be unlawful for any person who holds a license to sell and dispense
low-point beer for consumption on the premises, or any agent, servant, or
employee of such license holder to permit any minor to be admitted to or remain
in a separate or enclosed bar area of the licensed premises unless such minor's
parent or legal guardian is present, which has as its main purpose the selling
or serving of low-point beer for consumption on the premises. The provisions of
this section shall not prohibit minors from being admitted to an area which has
as its main purpose some objective other than the sale of serving of low-point
beer, in which sales or serving of such beverages are incidental to the main
purpose, as long as minors are not sold or served such beverages; however, the
incidental service of food in the bar area shall not exempt a licensee, agent,
servant, or employee from the provisions of this section.
(Code 1991, § 3-208)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 37 O.S. § 241.
Sec 6-104 Unlawful Transportation
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to transport in any moving vehicle upon
a public street, alley, or any public way within the City of any low-point beer
or any other intoxicating alcoholic beverage unless it is:
   A.   In the original container which shall not have been opened and from
which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed; or
   B.   If it is in an opened container, the opened container is in the rear
trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a
station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or to any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
(Code 1991, § 3-209; Ord. No. 10-01, 1-4-2010)
Sec 6-105 Location Of Low-Point Beer Licensee For On-Premises Consumption;
Prohibitions
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any place which has received a permit or which
has been licensed to sell low-point beer and which has as its main purpose the
selling or serving of low-point beer for consumption on the premises to be
located within three hundred (300) feet of any public or private school or
church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities. The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such public or private school or church to the nearest
perimeter wall of the premises of any such place which has received a permit or
which has been licensed to sell low-point beer. The provisions of this section
shall not apply to places which have received a permit or which have been
licensed to sell low- point beer for on-premises consumption prior to July 1,
1999. If any school or church shall be established within three hundred (300)
feet of any place subject to the provisions of this section after such place
has received a permit or been licensed, the provisions of this section shall
not be a deterrent to the renewal of such permit or license if there has not
been a lapse of more than sixty (60) days. When any place subject to the
provisions of this section which has a permit or license to sell low-point beer
for on-premises consumption changes ownership or the operator thereof is
changed, and such change results in the same type of business being conducted
on the premises, the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the
issuance of a license or permit to the new owner or operator if he is otherwise
qualified.
   B.   If an establishment selling low-point beer also is the holder of a
mixed beverage or beer and wine license issued by the State Alcoholic Beverage
Laws Enforcement Commission, the establishment shall be subject to the zoning
provisions of Section 6-8 rather than the provisions of this section.
(Code 1991, § 3-210)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 37 O.S. § 163.27; zoning authorized,
11 O.S. § 43-102(B).
Sec 6-106 Prohibited Acts
The owner of any bar, beer hall, tavern or other place wherein any low-point
beer is dispensed for consumption on the premises, or any employee, manager,
operator or agent thereof shall not:
   A.   Consume or be under the influence of alcoholic beverages or low-point
beer during the hours he is on duty. For the purposes of this section, a
licensee will be deemed to be on duty from the time he first comes on duty
until the time he goes off duty at the end of the shift, including any break
periods permitted by management. This subsection shall not apply to any person
who works on the premises as an entertainer only;
   B.   Permit or tolerate any conduct or language which is intended to
threaten another with physical harm or any fighting or offensive physical
contact, in or upon the licensed premises or areas outside the licensed
premises which are controlled by the licensee;
   C.   Permit empty or discarded low-point beer beverage containers to be in
public view outside the licensed premises. All empty or discarded containers
shall be disposed of in accordance with Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
Commission (ABLE) rules and regulations and/or State Department of
Environmental Quality;
   D.   Permit any illegal gambling activity, violations of the State narcotic
and dangerous drug laws, or prostitution activity or any other criminal conduct
to occur on the licensed premises;
   E.   Refuse or fail to promptly open a door to the licensed premises upon
request of an agent or inspector of the ABLE Commission or any other peace
officer to enter the premises, when the licensee or employee knows or should
know that such request is made by an agent or inspector of the ABLE Commission
or any other peace officer. This provision shall not be construed to deny
agents of the ABLE Commission or any other peace officer access at any time to
any licensed premises;
   F.   Permit a sealed or unsealed container of low-point beer to be removed
from the licensed premises;
   G.   Destroy, damage, alter, remove or conceal potential evidence, or
attempt to do so, or refuse to surrender evidence when lawfully requested to do
so by an inspector, agent or any other peace officer or incite another person
to do any of the above.
(Ord. No. 01-05, § 1, 5-7-2001)
Sec 6-107 Penalty
Any and each violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is an offense
against the City and, upon conviction of such an offense, the violator shall be
punished as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 3-212)
CHAPTER 10 ANIMALS
ARTICLE 10-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 10-2 KEEPING; CONFINING ANIMALS
ARTICLE 10-3 BIRDS AND BEES
ARTICLE 10-4 DOGS AND CATS
ARTICLE 10-5 KENNELS; PET SHOPS; CATTERIES
ARTICLE 10-6 VICIOUS ANIMALS
ARTICLE 10-7 ANIMALS AT LARGE; ANIMAL SHELTER
ARTICLE 10-8 RABIES PROCEDURES AND CONTROL
ARTICLE 10-9 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Editor's note- This chapter is form a draft ordinance provided by the City.
Cross reference- Environment, Ch.
34; health and sanitation, Ch.
46; dead animals, §
110-212.
State Law reference- Animals, 4 O.S.; municipal regulation of animals, 11 O.S.
§ 22-115; nuisances, 11 O.S. § 22-121 and 50 O.S.; injuries to animals, animal
fights, cruelty to animals, etc., 21 O.S. § 1681 et seq.; prevention and
control of zoonotic diseases, 63 O.S. § 1-508.
ARTICLE 10-1 IN GENERAL
   
10-1   Definitions
   
10-2   Exemptions
   
10-3   Zoning Ordinance To Prevail
   
10-4   Animal Control Officer To Inspect
   
10-5   Removal Of Dead Animals
   
10-6   Penalty
   
10-7    Defecating on Sidewalks, Public Parks, Alleys, Other Places Open To the
Public or On Certain Private Property Prohibited; Possession of Waste Removal
Equipment Required; Prohibition of Similar Acts
Sec 10-1 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Adequate shelter means any structure or area of structural soundness
must contain three (3) sides, a waterproof roof, solid floor, adequate bedding
material, positioned to allow for protection from north and west winds, proper
ventilation, and which is suitable for the species, age, condition, size and
type of animal which is safe and protects each animal from injury,
precipitation, direct sunlight, adverse effects of extreme heat or cold,
enables the animal to be clean and dry, and has sufficient room for the animal
to move about freely and to lie comfortably while allowing the retention of the
animal's body heat. Wildlife, livestock, and other non-domesticated animals
normally residing outdoors shall be only required to have appropriate shelter
from extreme weather through natural or artificial means available to it to
protect the animal.
   B.   Animal means any warm-blooded mammal.
   C.   Animal Control Officer means the person or persons designated by the
City Manager as an enforcement officer for this chapter.
   D.   Animal shelter means any premises officially designated by the City for
the purpose of impounding and caring for all animals found in violation of this
chapter.
   E.   Cat means any Felis catus.
   F.   Cattery means any premises operated for profit where there is being
maintained or harbored a total of four (4) or more cats, except veterinary
hospitals.
   G.   Chicken coop means a small structure or enclosure where chickens nest,
roost or perch and may include feeding and watering devices.
   H.   Chicken run means an enclosed area physically connected to the coop
where chickens are able to walk or run about which may include feeding and
watering devices.
   I.   Confined on the premises means that condition in which a dog or cat is
securely and physically confined and retained on and within the premises of the
owner or keeper by means of walls or fences.
   J.   Currently vaccinated means properly immunized by or under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian with an anti-rabies vaccine licensed and
approved by the United States Department of Agriculture for use in that animal
species or meeting conditions specified in O.A.C. 310:5993-8. Vaccine must have
been given at appropriate time intervals for the age of the animal and type of
vaccine administered.
   K.   Dangerous bird means any warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate, which may
constitute a physical threat to human beings.
   L.   Department means the City of Purcell, Oklahoma or local animal control
authority.
   M.   Department designee means an employee of the City of Purcell who is
acting within their scope of rabies control authority designated through the
City Manager.
   N.   Dog means any Canis familiaris, excluding hybrids.
   O.   Domestic animal means a companion animal including dogs, cats, and
ferrets, an equine animal, or a livestock animal.
   P.   Euthanize means the humane killing of an animal generally performed by
a veterinarian or personnel at an animal control facility under the indirect
supervision of a veterinarian.
   Q.   Exposure to rabies means a bite or physical contact with the saliva or
other potentially infectious tissues from an animal confirmed or suspected of
being infected with rabies.
   R.   Ferret means any Mustela putorius furo.
   S.   First party ownership means a situation where the owner of a biting
animal is directly related to the bite victim, that is parent-child, sibling-
sibling, grandparent, child, or when the legal residence of the animal owner
and the bite victim are the same.
   T.   Harboring means any person who allows any animal to habitually remain
or lodge or to be fed within his home, store, yard, enclosure, or place of
business or any other premises in which such person resides or controls.
   U.   Home quarantine means confinement and observation of an animal allowed
at the animal owner's property for a specified time period, where one (1) of
the following acceptable methods of confinement for a dog are used: complete
indoor housing; caging or kenneling in an enclosure with a securely latched
door; or yard confinement with perimeter fencing that the dog is unable to
climb over or dig under. Acceptable methods of confinement for a cat or ferret
are: complete indoor housing or caging in an enclosure that prevents escape.
The animal's needs for ambient temperature control, water, nutrition,
elimination, and space to comfortably stand up and lie down must be adequately
provided by the selected confinement method. Should the animal exhibit
neurological signs, die, or disappear during the specified period, a State-
licensed veterinarian and the department shall be immediately notified.
   V.   Hybrid means an offspring of wild animals crossbred to domestic dogs or
cats, considered to be wild animals in the enforcement of O.A.C. 310:599.
   W.   Kennel means any premises where there is being maintained or harbored a
total of three (3) or more dogs..
   X.   K-9 dog means a dog trained and being used as a canine security animal.
   Y.   Owner means any person, firm, or corporation keeping, possessing,
harboring, or having the care or custody of an animal, except the proprietor of
a kennel or cattery as defined in this section or a veterinary establishment.
   Z.   Quarantine means physical confinement of an animal during a specified
time period when the animal is monitored for the development of disease. During
this time period, the animal is prevented from having contact with other
animals and human contact is limited to as few caretakers as possible.
   AA.   Rabies means an acute disease of humans and warm-blooded mammals
caused by the rabies virus (genus Lyssavirus) that affects the central nervous
system and is almost always fatal.
   AB.   Recognized animal control facility means any facility operating for
the purpose of stray animal control and/or animal welfare that is under
contract or letter of agreement which identifies a licensed veterinarian
responsible for animal quarantines.
   AC.   Recognized zoological park means any member of the American
Association of Zoological Parks.
   AD.   Restraint and under restraint, within the meaning of this chapter,
mean an animal which is:
      1.   Controlled by a leash not more than eight (8) feet in length, which
leash prevents the animal from access to the property of another;
      2.   At "heel" beside a competent person and obedient to that person's
commands; or
      3.   Confined on the premises of his owner.
   AE.   Severe injury means any physical injury that results in broken bones
or lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery.
   AF.   Stray means any animal which does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry,
to have an owner.
   AG.   Vicious animal means:
      1.   An animal which, while unleashed and off the premises of its owner,
has attacked, menaced, chased, displayed threatening or aggressive behavior or
otherwise threatened or endangered the safety of any domestic animal or person;
      2.   An animal which, while unleashed and off the premises of its owner,
has bitten a human being or a domestic animal without provocation;
      3.   Any animal owned or harbored primarily, or in part, for the purpose
of fighting or any animal trained for fighting; or
      4.   An animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
or domestic animals.
   AH.   Wild animal means an animal considered as wildlife; any animal not
normally adapted to live in intimate association with humans nor raised for
consumption by humans.
   AI.   Zoonotic disease means a disease that is transmissible from animals to
humans under natural conditions.
(Ord. No. 03-07, § 1, 10-6-2003)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Municipal regulation of animals, 11 O.S. § 22-115.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 18-03 on 7/2/2018
Amended by Ord. 22-10 on 10/3/2022
Sec 10-2 Exemptions
Nothing in this chapter shall apply to animals or fowl kept in medical
laboratories, veterinary hospitals, other veterinary establishments, or
educational institutions for medical research except in the case of specific
references to such establishments or persons in charge thereof or employed
therein.
Sec 10-3 Zoning Ordinance To Prevail
In case of conflict between this chapter,
Chapter 122 or any future zoning ordinance, the provisions of
Chapter 122 or such future zoning ordinance shall prevail and supersede the
provisions of this chapter.
Cross reference- Zoning,
Ch.
122.
Sec 10-4 Animal Control Officer To Inspect
The Animal Control Officer, or Health Officer, upon complaint of any person,
shall inspect any structure or place where an animal is kept and may do so on
his own initiative. He may issue any such reasonable order as he may deem
necessary to the owner of the animal to cause the animal to be kept as provided
in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He may make
a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any person for violation of any
provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order, but this procedure
shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
Sec 10-5 Removal Of Dead Animals
The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in this City shall,
within twenty-four (24) hours after the death of such animal, remove its
carcass, and failure so to do shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Sec 10-6 Penalty
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates Sections
10-196 and 10-196.A. of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
or imprisoned as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any other
provision of this chapter, or who violates or refuses or neglects to carry out
any reasonable order made by the health office pursuant to this chapter, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined as follows:
   First offense            $100.00 plus costs
   Second offense         $200.00 plus costs
   Third or subsequent offense   $500.00 plus costs
The penalties provided for in this section shall be in addition to other
remedies of the City and aggrieved persons and shall not be construed as
exclusive.
(Ord. No. 11-03, § 1, 2-7-2011)
Sec 10-7 Defecating on Sidewalks, Public Parks, Alleys, Other Places Open To
the Public or On Certain Private Property Prohibited; Possession of Waste
Removal Equipment Required; Prohibition of Similar Acts
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or person having control of
any animal to fail to immediately remove and dispose of in a sanitary manner
any solid waste deposited by such animal upon any sidewalk, public park, alley,
other place open to the public, or from private property before the owner
leaves the immediate area where the solid waste was deposited.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or person having control of
any animal to fail to have in his/her possession the equipment necessary to
remove his/her animal's solid waste when accompanied by said animal on public
property or public easement.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or person having control of
any animal to permit such animal to destroy or damage property of any kind or
to deposit solid waste or to commit a similar prohibited act on the private
property of a person or the property of the City, including its parks and
playgrounds, or any property other than that of the owner of the animal.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 21-02 on 4/5/2021
ARTICLE 10-2 KEEPING; CONFINING ANIMALS
DIVISION 10-2-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 10-2-2 NUISANCES
DIVISION 10-2-1 GENERALLY
   
10-31   Buildings For Animals; Construction, Conditions
   
10-32   Pasturing In Public Areas
   
10-33   Livestock
   
10-34   Wild, Exotic, Or Dangerous Animals
Sec 10-31 Buildings For Animals; Construction, Conditions
   A.   Every, stable, kennel, or building wherein any animal or fowl is kept
within the City shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that
it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times and not be offensive or
dangerous to the public health.
   B.   Every such building, if located within two hundred (200) feet of any
tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boardinghouse, retail food
store, building used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes, or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight and
flytight receptacle for manure or droppings of such size as to hold all
accumulations of manure or droppings. The receptacle shall be emptied
sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a
nuisance and shall be kept covered at all times except when open during the
deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure or droppings shall be allowed
to accumulate on such premises except in the receptacle.
   C.   No building or any other establishment wherein animals are kept shall
be maintained closer than forty (40) feet to any tenement or apartment house,
hotel, restaurant, boardinghouse, retail food store, building used for
educational, religious, or hospital purposes, or residence other than that
occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which the animals are
kept.
Cross reference- Buildings and building regulations, Ch.
14.
Sec 10-32 Pasturing In Public Areas
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground, or other public, federal, State, County or City property,
or any railroad right-of- way, or on any property without the consent of the
person owning or controlling such property.
Sec 10-33 Livestock
It is unlawful to keep any livestock in the City, with the exception of those
kept for FFA or 4-H projects on public school property, or as may be allowed in
Chapter 122.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 18-03 on 7/2/2018
Approved by Ord. 18-06 Chickens in Residential Zoning on 7/2/2018
Sec 10-34 Wild, Exotic, Or Dangerous Animals
   A.   For the purpose of this section, a "wild, exotic, or dangerous animal"
means an animal of the larger variety which is usually not a domestic animal
and which can normally be found in the wild state with or without mean or
vicious propensities, including, but not limited to, lions, tigers, leopards,
panthers, bears, wolves, alligators, crocodiles, apes, foxes, elephants,
rhinoceroses, and all forms of poisonous snakes, lynxes, raccoons, skunks,
monkeys, and other like animals.
   B.   It is unlawful to keep or harbor any wild exotic or dangerous animal in
the City limits as a pet or for display or for exhibition purposes, whether
gratuitously or for a fee, except as provided in subsection (C) of this
section.
   C.   This section shall not apply to such animals kept for temporary periods
of time for exhibition purposes only by circuses, zoos, and educational
institutions. The term "temporary periods of time," as used in this article,
shall be defined as, and shall be limited to, a period of time not to exceed
one (1) week per year per applicant.
Cross reference- Environment, Ch.
34.
DIVISION 10-2-2 NUISANCES
   
10-61   Animal Nuisance
   
10-62   Keeping Nuisance Animals Deemed Public Nuisance
   
10-63   Animals That Are Nuisances Or Uncontrollable
Cross reference- Nuisances, § 34-56 et seq.
Sec 10-61 Animal Nuisance
   A.   An animal is a nuisance which by loud, frequent, or habitual barking,
howling, yelping, or other noise or action disturbs any person or neighborhood
within the City limits. Any animal which scratches or digs into any flower bed,
garden, tilled soil, shrubbery and in so doing injures the same, or which
habitually prowls around or over any premises not the property of its owner to
the annoyance of the owner or occupant of such premises, or which overturns any
garbage can or vessel for waste products, or scatters the contents of such
garbage can or vessel, or an animal which chases or kills any fowl or animal
owned by another is also
declared a nuisance. A female dog in season at large is a nuisance. It is
unlawful and a nuisance for any person to keep or harbor within the City any
dog or other animal which, by barking, howling, or otherwise, disturbs the
peace and quiet of any person.
   B.   It is unlawful to own or harbor an animal which is determined to be a
nuisance.
Sec 10-62 Keeping Nuisance Animals Deemed Public Nuisance
The keeping or maintaining or permitting to be kept or maintained of any of the
foregoing animals within the City in violation of this Code is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance.
Sec 10-63 Animals That Are Nuisances Or Uncontrollable
   A.   No person shall own, keep or harbor any animal that is a nuisance.
   B.   Notwithstanding Section 10-62:
      1.   If an animal is found by the Municipal Court Judge, upon notice and
hearing, to be uncontrollable by its owner to the extent that such animal poses
a threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the public then such animal
shall be ordered removed from the City limits or destroyed, at the owner's
option, within ten (10) days of the order.
      2.   Such a finding by the Municipal Court Judge shall be based upon, but
not limited to, evidence of three (3) convictions, pleas of guilty or nolo
contendere of violations of Sections 10-62, 10-256 or 10-257 against or by the
current owners within a twelve (12) month period concerning the same animal, or
two (2) convictions, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere of violations of
Sections 10-62, 10-256 or 10-257 against or by the current owners within a
twelve (12) month time period concerning the same animal.
      3.   Noncompliance with an order entered pursuant to subsection (B)(2)
shall be a violation punishable upon conviction by a fine as provided in
Section 1-12. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing
such violations.
(Ord. No. 03-07, § 5, 10-6-2003)
ARTICLE 10-3 BIRDS AND BEES
   
10-86   Dangerous Birds
   
10-87   Parakeets
   
10-88   Bees
   
10-89   Bird Sanctuary
Sec 10-86 Dangerous Birds
The raising or keeping of dangerous birds shall be permitted in accordance with
the provisions of 29 O.S. § 4-108, as well as any applicable provisions of
Chapter 122 and subsequent amendments thereto.
Sec 10-87 Parakeets
The raising of parakeets or other small birds or similar fowl shall be
permitted within the City without license or permit requirements, subject to
the following provisions:
   A.   All activities associated with the raising of parakeets shall be
completely enclosed and out of the public view;
   B.   Premises utilized for the raising of parakeets shall be maintained in
accordance with this article; and
   C.   All requirements of
Chapter 122 shall be met.
Sec 10-88 Bees
The keeping or raising of bees within the corporate limits shall be permitted
only in those areas zoned for agricultural or large-lot (over two (2) acres)
residential uses, and in accordance with
Chapter 122. No license or permit shall be required to keep or raise bees.
Sec 10-89 Bird Sanctuary
   A.   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the City is
hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
   B.   It is unlawful to hunt, trap, or shoot, or to attempt to shoot or
molest in any manner, any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests. However, if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in
such numbers in a particular locality, such that they constitute a nuisance or
menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of
the City, the health authorities shall meet with the representatives of the
Gladiolus Garden Club or Humane Society (if existing within the City), after
having given at least three (3) days' actual notice of the time and place of
the meeting to the representatives of such organization.
   C.   If, as a result of such meetings, no satisfactory alternative is found
to abate such nuisance, the birds may be destroyed in such number and in such
manner as is deemed advisable by the health authorities under the supervision
of the police chief of the City.
ARTICLE 10-4 DOGS AND CATS
DIVISION 10-4-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 10-4-2 VACCINATION; LICENSE TAGS; TAX
DIVISION 10-4-1 GENERALLY
   
10-116   Confinement Of Dogs And Cats In Heat Required
   
10-117   (Reserved)
   
10-118   Confinement Of Dogs And Cats In Situations Of Extreme Temperatures
   
10-119   Sale of Dogs or Cats
Sec 10-116 Confinement Of Dogs And Cats In Heat Required
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any female dog or cat in heat to
fail to confine such dog or cat in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   B.   The owner of any female dog or cat in heat shall keep such dog or cat
confined in a building or secure enclosure, veterinary hospital, or boarding
kennel in such manner that such female dog or cat cannot come in contact with a
male dog or cat, except for intentional breeding purposes.
(Ord. No. 12-09, §§ 1, 2, 10-1-2012)
Sec 10-117 (Reserved)
Sec 10-118 Confinement Of Dogs And Cats In Situations Of Extreme Temperatures
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any animal in any standing or
parked vehicle, box, container or other situation without providing for
adequate ventilation nor shall a person allow an animal to be exposed to
extreme temperature while confined in a vehicle, box, container or other
situation which would likely cause distress, harm and or death to the animal.
For purposes of this Section, extreme temperature shall exist when the outside
air temperature is not between thirty-five (35) and ninety (90) degrees
Fahrenheit.
(Ord. No. 17-17, § 2, 8-7-2017; Ord. No. 25-07, § 1, 3-3-2025)
Sec 10-119 Sale of Dogs or Cats
It shall be unlawful for any person to offer any animal for sale, or to trade,
exchange, barter or give away or to accept any animal on any property not owned
or rented by the seller or buyer or on any public curbsides, roadsides,
alleyways, streets, parks, or parking lots unless specifically authorized by
the city in writing to do so.
(Ord. No. 25-05, § 1, 3-3-2025)
DIVISION 10-4-2 VACCINATION; LICENSE TAGS; TAX
   
10-141   Dogs And Cats To Be Vaccinated
   
10-142   Dog License; Registration; Tag
   
10-143   Tag To Be Placed On Collar; Lost Tags
   
10-144   Placing Counterfeiting Tags On Other Dogs
   
10-145    Spaying and Neutering Requirement
Sec 10-141 Dogs And Cats To Be Vaccinated
   A.   Required immunization of dogs, cats, and ferrets.
      1.   The owner or custodian of a domestic dog, cat, or ferret shall cause
the animal to be vaccinated against rabies by the time the animal is four (4)
months of age or within fifteen (15) days of arrival in the City and at regular
intervals thereafter according to the label directions of an approved rabies
vaccine for use in that species or as prescribed by ordinances or rules adopted
by a municipality within whose jurisdiction the animal owner resides.
      2.   A veterinarian who administers or supervises the rabies vaccination
of a dog, cat, or ferret shall issue to the animal's owner/custodian, a
vaccination certificate that meets the minimum standards set forth in O.A.C.
310:599-3-7. Animal identification, including, but not limited to, species,
gender, age, and predominant breed and coloring must be indicated on the
vaccination certificate.
   B.   Record of recognized rabies vaccination.
      1.   Record of vaccination by a veterinarian must be provided to
determine the animal to be currently vaccinated against rabies. Veterinarians
shall be required to keep a record of a rabies vaccination for a minimum period
of three (3) years. This record must include name, address, and telephone
number of the owner of the animal, date of vaccination, animal identification,
brand name of vaccine used, vaccine expiration date, and producer of vaccine.
      2.   Three (3) year immunity conferred by the second or subsequent
boosters with a three (3) year rabies vaccine will be recognized in the
enforcement of O.A.C. 310:599.
   C.   Administration of rabies vaccine.
      1.   It is prohibited for anyone to administer rabies vaccine to any
animal unless such vaccine is licensed for use in the particular animal species
in question. Exceptions to this include:
         a.   The vaccination of wolf-dog hybrids with a rabies vaccine
approved for dogs;
         b.   Use at recognized nonprofit zoological parks or research
institutions; or
         c.   Special approval by the commissioner of health permitting the
vaccination in a particular species where the preponderance of scientific
literature suggests vaccine efficacy and vaccine usage is determined to protect
public health and safety.
      2.   Animals vaccinated per these exceptions will still be considered as
a wild animal species if involved in a bite to a person and will be handled
according to O.A.C. 310:599-3-4.
      3.   Rabies vaccines presently licensed are listed in the most current
Compendium of Animal Rabies Control published annually by the National
Association of State Public Health Veterinarians. Copies shall be available
from the Communicable Disease Division, Oklahoma State Department of Health,
1000 N.E. Tenth Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73117-1299.
   D.   Consumer notification required for over-the-counter (OTC) rabies
vaccine sales. Each supplier or retailer of OTC animal rabies vaccine for
administration by any person other than a licensed veterinarian shall post
notification to the consumer that only the records of a licensed veterinarian
will be acceptable documentation of a rabies vaccination in the application of
requirements in O.A.C. chapter 310:599. The standard written notice shall be
obtained from the department and posted directly over or near the retail
location of the OTC rabies vaccine in a manner that the text of the notice is
easily visualized by consumers.
Sec 10-142 Dog License; Registration; Tag
   A.   Charge levied. A lifetime charge as set by the Council for every male
or female dog more than six (6) months of age is hereby levied upon the owner
of any such dog kept or harbored within the City.
   B.   Exceptions. The tax levied in this section shall not apply to a dog
only temporarily brought and kept within the City for a period less than
fifteen (15) days, nor to a dog brought within the City to participate in a dog
show, nor to a guide dog, signal dog or service dog that is actually being used
by a blind, physically handicapped, deaf, or hard of hearing person to aid him
in going from place to place, nor to dogs being kept in kennels or pet shops
for sale.
   C.   Times for payment. The owner shall pay the tax levied to the City Clerk
for every calendar year at the following times:
      1.   Before July 1 of each calendar year; or
      2.   If the dog is acquired or brought in the City after July l or
becomes six (6) months of age after July 1, within seven (7) days after
acquiring or bringing the dog into the City or its becoming six (6) months of
age. The fee for part of the year may be prorated based on the number of days
left in the year, but in no instance shall the fee be less than one-half (½) of
the annual rate.
   D.   Certificate of vaccination required. Before the City accepts any money
offered in payment of the tax for a dog or issues a license for it, the person
offering the tax shall present to the City Clerk the certificate of a
veterinarian or other person legally authorized to immunize dogs, showing that
the dog has been immunized against rabies during the calendar year.
   E.   Registration. The owner of the dog shall, at the time of paying the
tax, register the dog by giving the name and address of the owner; the name,
breed, color, and sex of the dog; and such other reasonable information as the
City Clerk may request.
   F.   Tag. The City Clerk or designee thereupon shall deliver an original
receipt to the taxpayer and also an appropriate tag to him for the dog. Such
tag shall constitute a license for the dog.
Sec 10-143 Tag To Be Placed On Collar; Lost Tags
   A.   The owner shall cause the tag received from the City Clerk to be
affixed to the collar of the dog upon which the tax has been paid so that the
tag can easily be seen by officers of the City. The owner shall see that the
tag is so worn by the dog at all times.
   B.   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another by applying to the City Clerk, presenting
to him the original receipt, and paying to him a fee as set by the Council.
Sec 10-144 Placing Counterfeiting Tags On Other Dogs
No person shall counterfeit, or attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued for a
dog as provided in this article. No person except the owner or veterinarian
treating a dog shall take from any dog a tag legally placed upon it, and in no
case shall such tag be placed upon a dog for which the tag was not specifically
issued.
Sec 10-145 Spaying and Neutering Requirement
Any person who harbors, keeps or possesses (hereinafter "owner") a dog or cat
over the age of six (6) months shall be required to spay or neuter such dog or
cat. Exceptions to this requirement shall be dog(s) owned and used by the
Police Department of the City as a police dog or an owner with an active kennel
license. In the event an owner of a dog or cat over the age of six (6) months
is unable to produce proof of spaying or neutering subject animal, a rebuttable
presumption is created that the dog or cat has not been spayed or neutered. Any
animal control officer or police officer coming into lawful contact with a dog
or cat not in compliance with this requirement shall impound such dog or cat at
the city animal shelter pursuant to Sec
10-282.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 22-08 on 9/6/2022
ARTICLE 10-5 KENNELS; PET SHOPS; CATTERIES
   
10-171   License; Operating Requirements
   
10-172   Limitation On Number Of Dogs
Sec 10-171 License; Operating Requirements
   A.   Kennels to be licensed. No person shall own, maintain, or operate a
kennel within the corporate limits of the City unless such kennel is licensed
as provided in this article.
   B.   Application for kennel license; required information; compliance with
zoning regulations. Application for such license shall be made to the City
Clerk and shall state the name and address of the owner or operator of the
kennel, with the street address and legal description of the property upon
which the kennel is located. Such license will not be issued unless the kennel
is in compliance with any applicable portions of any present or future zoning
regulations adopted by the City.
   C.   Kennel license fee. The annual kennel license fee shall be as set by
the City and such license shall be exhibited in a conspicuous place on the
premises.
   D.   Issuance of license. Licenses shall be issued for a period of one (1)
year beginning on July 1 of each year. Licenses may be issued starting thirty
(30) days before July 1 and for thirty (30) days thereafter.
   E.   Proof of vaccination. A kennel owner must show proof of rabies
vaccination on all animals over four (4) months of age when applying for a
license.
   F.   Sanitary conditions. Any person maintaining a kennel, whether for
profit or not, shall maintain such kennel in a sanitary condition and shall be
subject to the provisions of this Code and in compliance with this Code and any
future code or ordinance of the City. Nonconforming kennels shall be deemed a
public nuisance.
   G.   Requirements for pet shops, catteries, and kennels. All pet shops,
catteries and kennels shall:
      1.   Maintain records and retain such records for a two (2) year period
on all dogs and cats maintained in such facility. Such records shall show
breed, color, markings, sex, age, date, and source of the animal; period for
which the animal is maintained; date and disposition of the animal (including
name and address of the new owner); and disease prevention or treatment and by
whom;
      2.   Provide general environmental conditions to assure adequate physical
space for each animal, control of parasites, clean food and water, weather
protection, and clean and sanitary facilities; and
      3.   Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable materials, if used for
confinement, and keep such cages and pens clean and sanitary.
   H.   Pet shops. Pet shops shall be subject to the same requirements for
licensing as kennels. Any other requirements of this code which may involve
specific animals sold in a pet shop shall also be included in those regulations
applicable to pet shops.
   I.   Kennel Limitations: No more than one (1) litter of puppies or kittens
at a time shall be allowed by a properly licensed facility as defined in this
section.
   J.   Facility Inspections: Any licensed facility as defined herein, shall be
subject to inspection for compliance at any time by Animal Control officers or
law enforcement officials.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 22-10 on 10/3/2022
Sec 10-172 Limitation On Number Of Dogs
No person shall own, keep or harbor more than three (3) dogs on their premises,
including but not limited to adjoining property, structures, or other facility,
without first obtaining a kennel license as authorized within applicable city
ordinances.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 22-10 on 10/3/2022
ARTICLE 10-6 VICIOUS ANIMALS
   
10-196   Vicious Animals Unlawful
   
10-196-A Attacks Prohibited
   
10-197   Impoundment Of Vicious Animals
   
10-198   Officer To File Report
   
10-199   Notice Of Hearing To Determine Nature Of Impounded Dog
   
10-200   Hearing And Adjudication
   
10-201   Exemptions
   
10-202   Animals Suspected Of Rabies
   
10-203   Confinement Of Animals Required; Exceptions
   
10-204   Control Of Animals Trespassing On Public Or Private Property
Prohibited
   
10-205   Impoundment Of Animals Otherwise; Destruction In Lieu Of Apprehension
   
10-206   Violation And Injunction
Sec 10-196 Vicious Animals Unlawful
It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor, possess, or maintain within the
City limits any animal which is determined to be vicious as defined by the
ordinances of the City.
Sec 10-196-A Attacks Prohibited
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner or possessor to permit such
animal to attack or bite any person or animal upon the premises of the person,
owner or possessor. It shall be an affirmative defense to this subsection when
such premises are previously posted at each entrance to the same with prominent
and conspicuous signs warning all persons in lettering not less than two (2)
inches in height, of such animal. It is also an affirmative defense to this
subsection that the use of such animal to attack or bite any person was
necessary to prevent or apprehend a person engaged in committing an act of
violence, robbery or theft upon said property.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner or possessor to permit such
animal to attack or bite any person or animal not upon the premises of such
person, owner or possessor.
   C.   For the purposes of this section, the word attack shall mean violent or
aggressive physical contact.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any law enforcement
officer who uses or employs an animal while engaged in law enforcement
activities, nor to any owner, possessor or keeper whose animal attacks or bites
a person engaged in physically attacking or striking said owner, possessor or
keeper.
(Ord. No. 03-07, § 2, 10-6-2003)
Sec 10-197 Impoundment Of Vicious Animals
   A.   Threats to public health and safety. Animal Control Officers of the
City shall make a reasonable effort to take into custody and impound in the
City animal shelter any animal where the officer determines in good faith from
personal observation or other evidence that the animal is an immediate threat
to the public health and safety and such animal is upon the public street or
lands and unleashed. Any law enforcement officer of the City shall take into
custody and impound in the City animal shelter any unleashed animal which is
upon public property upon the determination by such officer that the animal is
an immediate threat to the public health and safety and that delay of
impoundment to await an animal control unit will jeopardize the public safety.
No costs for impoundment in the City animal shelter shall be assessed against
the owner of the animal for the period during which the animal is impounded, if
such animal is determined not to be a vicious animal under the provisions of
this section.
   B.   Leashed or confined animals. Animals restrained by leashes while upon
the public streets, ways, or property and animals confined to an owner's
premises by fences or direct restraint shall not be impounded except by order
issued by a Municipal Judge upon a showing of probable cause that such animal
has, while unleashed and off the premises of its owner, bitten a human being or
a domestic animal without provocation.
   C.   Providing information to requesting officer. Any person in custody of a
leashed animal while upon the public street, ways, or property shall, upon
request of an Animal Control Officer, furnish his name, address, telephone
number, and registration number of the leashed animal to the requesting
officer. No officer shall make any such request of a person unless the officer
has determined that there is a reasonable suspicion that the animal in the
custody of the person concerned is a "vicious animal" within the scope and
intent of this article.
   D.   Determination of probable cause; delivery of vicious animal. A
Municipal Judge, upon the presentment of a verified complaint by an Animal
Control Officer or any law enforcement officer, shall determine whether
probable cause exists to believe that at a specified location within the City a
"vicious animal" is being kept. If the Municipal Judge determines that probable
cause exists, the judge shall issue an order of the Municipal Court describing
the animal with reasonable certainty, setting forth the approximate time,
place, and actions giving rise to the alleged vicious nature of the animal, and
specifying the address at which such animal is being kept. The judge shall
direct the officer to serve a certified copy of the order upon a person age
eighteen (18) or older who is a resident at the premises where such animal is
located. Any such person, upon the service of the aforesaid certified copy of
the court's order, shall be bound to deliver over to the law enforcement
officer the animal which is the subject of the order. Any such impoundment
order issued by a Municipal Judge may, in the alternative, authorize and direct
the law enforcement officer to take into custody the subject animal from
private premises by means not giving rise to a breach of the peace, in the
event that such animal can be seized without entering into any domestic
residence or commercial building and no person eighteen (18) or older is upon
the premises where the subject animal is found. In the case of an impoundment
accomplished without personal service of an impoundment order, a copy of the
impoundment order shall be left on the premises in a manner calculated to be
discovered by the occupant and sent to "occupant" by certified mail.
   E.   Retention of impounded animals. Animals impounded under the authority
of this section shall be retained in the City animal shelter or, at the written
request of the owner and at his sole liability for the costs, at a duly
licensed veterinary clinic or kennel until the City Attorney declines to file
an information in the case alleging a violation of this article or until a
further order of the Municipal Court has been issued requiring release or
destruction of the impounded animal.
Sec 10-198 Officer To File Report
The officer who impounds an animal pursuant to this article shall make a
written report and deliver it to the Municipal Court Clerk with a copy to the
City Attorney within twenty- four (24) hours of the impoundment.
Sec 10-199 Notice Of Hearing To Determine Nature Of Impounded Dog
   A.   The City Attorney shall determine by the end of the third working day
after receipt of the impoundment report whether prosecution will be undertaken
or declined under this article with respect to the impounded animal. If
prosecution is determined, the City Attorney shall file an information with the
Municipal Court Clerk and a copy shall be served upon the person who had
physical custody of the subject animal at the time of impoundment or, in the
case of an impoundment accomplished from private property without personal
service of a court order, service of the information shall be made upon a
person age eighteen (18) or older who is a resident at the premises from which
the animal was impounded.
   B.   In the case of an animal impounded off the premises of the owner, the
impounding officer shall make reasonable effort through the use of any
identification tags found on the animal in order to bring about personal
service of the information on the owner as set forth in this section.
   C.   Return of the service of such order shall be chain, rope or other type
of leash promptly filed with the Municipal Court Clerk. The information shall
state on its face the date, time, and place at which a hearing will be
conducted by Municipal Court to determine the nature of the impounded animal
under this division and the action to be taken with respect to such animal and
its owner.
Sec 10-200 Hearing And Adjudication
   A.   The Municipal Judge, in addition to any hearings which may be required
on criminal shall hold a hearing within ten (10) days of the date of
impoundment to determine if the animal is vicious as defined by this Code. Said
hearing may be held in conjunction with any criminal proceedings if so ordered
by the judge but in no event shall this delay the hearing on determination of
viciousness.
   B.   The Municipal Judge shall be empowered to make one of the following
determinations as a result of said hearing:
      1.   That the animal is in fact not vicious, in which event the City
shall cause it to be surrendered to the owner of the animal, upon payment by
the owner of the expenses outlined in Section 10-284.
      2.   That the animal is in fact vicious and should be destroyed.
      3.   That the animal is vicious but that for good cause shown, the animal
should not be destroyed in which event the judge shall order one (1) of the
following:
      That the owner be allowed to maintain the vicious animal within the
corporate limits of the City under the following conditions:
         a.   Payment of fees. Payment of all fees required by Section 10-284.
         b.   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit an animal covered by
this section to go outside its kennel or in pen unless such animal is securely
leashed with a leash no longer than four (4) feet in length. No person shall
permit said animal to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside
its kennel or pen unless a person is in physical control of the leash. Such
animal may not be the leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts,
buildings, etc. In addition, all animals on a leash outside the animal's kennel
must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such animal from
biting persons or other animals.
         c.   Confinement. All animals covered by this section shall be
securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel,
except when leashed and muzzled as above provided. Such pen, kennel or
structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All
structures used to confine said animals must be locked with a key or
combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such structure
must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the
sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two (2) feet. All
structures erected to house said animals must comply with all zoning and
building regulations of the City. All such structures must be adequately
lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
         d.   Confinement indoors. No animal covered by this section may be
kept on a porch, patio or in any part of a house or structure that would allow
the animal to exit such building on its own volition. In addition, no such
animal may be kept in a house or structure when the windows are open or when
screen windows or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the animal from
exiting the structure.
         e.   Signs. All owners, keepers or harborers of animals covered by
this section within the City shall display in a prominent place on their
premises a sign easily readable by the public using the words "Beware of
Vicious Animal." In addition, a similar sign is required to be posted on the
kennel or pen of such animal.
         f.   Insurance. All owners, keepers or harborers of animals covered by
this section must provide proof to the City Animal Welfare Manager of public
liability insurance in a single incident amount of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for bodily injury to or death of any person or persons or for
damage to property owned by any persons which may result from the ownership,
keeping or maintenance of such animal. Such insurance policy shall provide that
no cancellation of the policy will be made unless ten (10) days written notice
is first given to the City Animal Welfare Manager.
      4.   All owners, whose animal is adjudged to be vicious at the hearing,
and sentence imposed by the Municipal Judge pursuant to this section, upon
written demand, may appeal the judge's decision within ten (10) days to the
district court of the County where a trial in the district court shall be
accorded them de novo. All such appeals shall comply with the procedures of
Section 25-34.
(Ord. No. 03-07, § 3, 10-6-2003)
Sec 10-201 Exemptions
A K-9 dog which approaches a person in an apparent attitude of attack or which
attacks or bites a human being upon command of its owner shall not by reason of
such incident be deemed to be a "vicious animal." The owner of any such dog
shall not, however, by virtue of this article, be exempted from any legal
liability that may otherwise arise by reason of any such action commanded of a
K-9 dog by the owner.
Sec 10-202 Animals Suspected Of Rabies
Any animal which has bitten or is suspected of having bitten any person, or
which has been exposed to or is suspected of having been exposed to rabies,
shall be subject to all the provisions of Sections
10-311 through
10-323 and all State regulations.
Sec 10-203 Confinement Of Animals Required; Exceptions
   A.   Confinement required; means of confinement. Every person who owns,
possesses, or harbors any animal within the City shall confine the animal to
premises owned or controlled by him. Confinement shall be accomplished by means
of a substantial fence or similar enclosures of sufficient strength and height
to prevent the animal from escaping therefrom, or by keeping the animal inside
a house or other building, or by a leash at least ten (10) feet in length
consisting of a metal chain or other material of sufficient strength to prevent
the animal from escaping from the premises when the leash is stretched to its
full length.
   B.   Persons to whom section applicable. Every person who owns, possesses,
or harbors any animal within the City shall confine the animal as required
under this section.
   C.   Exceptions.
      1.   This section shall not apply to any person who takes an animal upon
private property with the consent of the owner or person in control of the
property or upon a street or other public place when the animal is confined in
a vehicle or by means of a chain or leash of sufficient strength and length to
control the actions of the animal.
      2.   This section shall not apply to agricultural areas. For the purpose
of this article, "agricultural areas" shall be all areas zoned agricultural
under
Chapter 122.
Sec 10-204 Control Of Animals Trespassing On Public Or Private Property
Prohibited
   A.   No person shall permit any animal owned, possessed, or harbored by him:
      1.   To trespass upon private property without the consent of the person
who owns or controls the property and without properly confining the animal to
that property as required by the provisions of this chapter; or
      2.   To trespass upon any street or other public property unless the
animal is:
         a.   Under the immediate physical control of the owner or other
responsible person by confinement in a vehicle; or
         b.   Under the immediate physical control of the owner or other
responsible person by means of a chain, rope, cord, or leash of not more than
six (6) feet in length and of sufficient strength to control the actions of the
animal.
   B.   For purposes of this section, the term "immediate physical control"
shall mean confinement in a vehicle or control exercised through the personal
physical presence of a person who, at all times, has in his possession the
chain, rope, cord, or leash to which the dog is attached.
Sec 10-205 Impoundment Of Animals Otherwise; Destruction In Lieu Of
Apprehension
Unless otherwise provided in this article, any animal which is not confined as
provided in this article shall be impounded by the Animal Control Officer or
his duly appointed representative or by any law enforcement officer. If the
animal is so vicious that it cannot be safely impounded, the officer seeking to
apprehend it may destroy it. Any impounded animal shall be confined in the City
animal shelter.
Sec 10-206 Violation And Injunction
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an offense
and conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in Section 10-6. In
addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from continuing such violations.
(Ord. No. 03-07, § 4, 10-6-2003; Ord. No. 11-03, § 2, 2-7-2011)
ARTICLE 10-7 ANIMALS AT LARGE; ANIMAL SHELTER
DIVISION 10-7-1 GENERALLY (RESERVED)
DIVISION 10-7-2 ANIMALS AT LARGE
DIVISION 10-7-3 ANIMAL SHELTER
DIVISION 10-7-1 GENERALLY (RESERVED)
DIVISION 10-7-2 ANIMALS AT LARGE
   
10-256   Animals Not To Be At Large
   
10-257   Turning Animals At Large Unlawful
Sec 10-256 Animals Not To Be At Large
No owner shall permit any animal which is owned, harbored, or kept by him to be
at large within the City or to trespass upon the property of another. It is
unlawful for any animal to be at large at any time within the City.
Sec 10-257 Turning Animals At Large Unlawful
It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by ordinance so as to turn the animal at large or in any
manner to turn the animal at large.
DIVISION 10-7-3 ANIMAL SHELTER
   
10-281   Shelter Established
   
10-282   Animals To Be Impounded
   
10-283   Breaking Shelter
   
10-284   Fees For Impounding
   
10-285   Disposition Of Impounded Animals
   
10-286   Owner May Claim Excess Money
   
10-287   Refusal to Redeem Impounded Animal
Sec 10-281 Shelter Established
A City animal shelter may be established under the jurisdiction of the Police
Department.
It shall be under the immediate control of an Animal Control Officer or of such
other person as may be officially designated. The person in charge of the
shelter shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded and shall
treat them in a humane manner. The City may contract with another agency for
the use of a shelter maintained by the agency.
Sec 10-282 Animals To Be Impounded
   A.   The Animal Control Officer, a police officer, or such other officer or
employee of the City as may be authorized by the City Manager may take into
custody and impound any animal running at large or in violation of any
provision of the ordinances of the City and may enter upon the premises of the
owner or other private premises to take such animal into custody.
   B.   Animals taken into custody as provided in this chapter shall be
destroyed by an acceptable humane method by the officer or employee of the City
in charge of such animal, or by the Animal Control Officer, after seventy-two
(72) hours have elapsed after taking the animal into custody, provided the
animal is not redeemed or claimed as provided in this article. A description of
the animal, the date impounded, and the place of impoundment shall be kept by
the Animal Control Officer or other officer in charge. If the owner can be
identified by tag or otherwise, the Animal Control Officer shall send notice to
the owner orally by telephone or in writing at the address on the City's
registration records that unless claimed by the owner, the animal will be
disposed of as provided in Section
10-285.
   C.   All dogs and cats impounded pursuant to Sec
10-282 shall be spayed or neutered prior to being released pursuant to Sec
10-285, including those reclaimed or otherwise returned to their owners. The
Animal Control Officer may exempt the owner of a full-breed registered animal
from the requirement to spay or neuter a dog or cat prior to release upon the
owner's presentation satisfactory proof of pure breed status as verified by the
American Kennel Club or similar entity and payment of a registration fee or if
a licensed veterinarian certifies in writing that the animal is incapable of
reproduction or that spaying or neutering dog or cat would be injurious to the
animal's health, provided, however, that if the health condition of the animal
is of a temporary nature, then the animal shall be spayed or neutered
immediately after the health condition has been corrected. For the purpose of
this section, proof of pure breed status must be provided to the animal shelter
within 48 hours of impoundment.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 22-08 on 9/6/2022
Sec 10-283 Breaking Shelter
No unauthorized person shall:
   A.   Break or attempt to break open the shelter or take or let out any
animal there from;
   B.   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the City any
animal taken into custody as provided by this chapter; or
   C.   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his duties relating to the taking into custody and impounding of
animals as provided in this chapter.
Sec 10-284 Fees For Impounding
   A.   The City Council by motion or resolution shall determine the fees to be
charged for impounding and keeping animals. In computing the fee, a fraction of
a day during which an animal has been fed shall be deemed a full day.
   B.   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the required fees to
the City Clerk and present his receipt therefor to the person in charge of the
animal shelter before the latter releases the animal. An owner of an impounded
animal or his agent may redeem the animal prior to its disposition as provided
for in Section
10-285. However, when in the judgment of the Animal Control Officer an animal
should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not be redeemed.
   C.   Any person redeeming a dog not licensed as required by Section
10-142 of this chapter shall pay the required license tax to the City Clerk and
secure a tag and present the receipt therefor and the tag to the person in
charge of the animal shelter before the latter releases the dog. If a dog has
been licensed but is not wearing the tag, the person in charge of the animal
shelter shall require adequate evidence of the proper licensing of the dog
before releasing it.
   D.   A vaccination deposit, set by resolution of the City Council, shall be
required for each animal without proof of the required rabies vaccination from
a licensed veterinarian within the prior twelve (12) months immediately
preceding its impoundment. The deposit shall be returned only if, within five
(5) working days from the date of the deposit, the City Clerk, or his designee,
is presented a receipt from a licensed veterinarian documenting that the animal
had received a rabies vaccination within either the prior twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the animal's impoundment or the period within five (5)
working days from the date of the deposit.
(Ord. No. 02-16, 10-7-2002)
Sec 10-285 Disposition Of Impounded Animals
   A.   As soon as practicable after any animal of apparent value has been
impounded, the Animal Control Officer or other employee or officer impounding
the animal shall inform the police chief and the police chief shall thereupon
post a notice thereof at the police office of the City. The notice shall
describe the animal and notify the owner to pay the charges thereon and remove
the same prior to a designated time. The notice shall also state that unless
the animal is redeemed the animal will be disposed of by adoption as a pet, by
delivery to a licensed educational or research institution, or by
euthanization.
   B.   Any sale of an impounded animal shall be for cash and shall be
conducted by or under the direction of the police chief. If an impounded animal
cannot be sold, he shall destroy the animal or have it destroyed in an
acceptable, humane method or otherwise dispose of it in a legal manner.
   C.   The purchaser of an animal at a sale held as provided in this section
shall acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
   D.   The Police Department shall pay to the City Clerk all money received
from the sale of impounded animals on the day it is received or on the next day
upon which the office of the City Clerk is open for business.
Sec 10-286 Owner May Claim Excess Money
The owner of an impounded animal sold as provided in Section
10-285 may claim the excess of the sale price of the animal above the fees for
impounding and keeping the same and a fee as set by the Council by motion or
resolution to reimburse the City for any expense it has had in making the sale
at any time within three (3) months after the sale. If a claim is so made and
approved by the Council, the City Clerk shall pay him such excess. If a claim
is not made, the excess shall belong to the City.
Sec 10-287 Refusal to Redeem Impounded Animal
It shall be unlawful for the owner, possessor, harborer or keeper of an animal
which has been impounded by the Animal Welfare Center to refuse to respond or
to make arrangements to redeem an impounded animal within seventy two (72)
hours once they have been notified of the impoundment unless the Purcell Animal
shelter extends that deadline in writing.
(Ord. 25-04, § 1, 3/3/2025)
ARTICLE 10-8 RABIES PROCEDURES AND CONTROL
   
10-311   Management Of Dogs, Cats, Or Ferrets That Bite A Person
   
10-312   Management Of Other Animals That Bite A Human
   
10-313   Severe Bite Wounds Inflicted
   
10-314   When Dogs And Cats Confined
   
10-315   Confinement Required
   
10-316   Supervising Veterinarian's Responsibility
   
10-317   Responsibility For Costs Incurred
   
10-318   Confinement By Owner
   
10-319   Enforcement
   
10-320   Destruction Or Observation
   
10-321   Animals Considered Exposed
   
10-322   Vaccinated Domestic Animals Exposed To Rabid Animals
   
10-323   Disposal Of Remains Of Disease Suspect Animal
Cross reference- Environment,
Ch.
34.
Sec 10-311 Management Of Dogs, Cats, Or Ferrets That Bite A Person
   A.   Any person or entity owning, harboring, or keeping a dog, cat, or
ferret which in the preceding ten (10) days has bitten any person shall, upon
receipt of written notice by the local animal control authority or department
designee, place such animal in quarantine under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian for a period of ten (10) days from the date the person was bitten.
The impoundment and observation of the dog, cat, or ferret shall be conducted
at the veterinarian's facility or a recognized animal control facility.
Unvaccinated animals shall be vaccinated against rabies on the final day of the
ten (10) day observation period prior to discharge from the veterinarian's
supervision.
   B.   Exceptions to this rule include the following circumstances:
      1.   Dogs, cats, or ferrets involved in a first party ownership may be
allowed to be placed in a home quarantine for a ten (10) day period immediately
following the bite.
      2.   Dogs, cats, and ferrets meeting the criteria of currently vaccinated
against rabies, and not inflicting a severe injury, shall be placed in a home
quarantine until the end of a ten (10) day period from the bite. In some
instances, a certification of animal health obtained after examination by a
licensed veterinarian on the tenth day may be required by the department.
      3.   Animals in service to the blind or hearing impaired and search and
rescue dogs or other animals used for police enforcement duties shall be exempt
from the quarantine when a bite exposure occurs and proper record of
immunization against rabies is presented. A certification of animal health
obtained after examination by a licensed veterinarian at the end of ten (10)
days may be required by the department.
      4.   Stray or unwanted dogs, cats, or ferrets that have bitten any person
may either be quarantined for ten (10) days at a veterinary facility or a
recognized animal control facility or immediately euthanized and the brain
tissue submitted to the State Department of Health laboratory for rabies
testing. Upon successful completion of the ten (10) day period, a stray animal
may be placed for adoption at the discretion of the animal control authority.
      5.   In rare instances, other good and valid health reasons of the owner
or animal may be considered for justification to home quarantine (e.g., a bitch
with a litter of very young puppies, an animal with a contagious disease,
etc.). Approval for home quarantine will be determined by the department or its
designee.
Sec 10-312 Management Of Other Animals That Bite A Human
   A.   The final decision for animal destruction, quarantine, or other
disposition of any animal other than a dog, cat, or ferret that bites a person
or otherwise potentially exposes a person to rabies shall be determined through
the department. The department will consider, but not be limited to:
      1.   The epidemiology and risk of rabies in the species of animal in
question;
      2.   Possible prior exposure to a rabies vector;
      3.   Behavior of the animal at the time of the bite;
      4.   Prior rabies vaccinations; and
      5.   Other circumstances that may exist.
   B.   In some situations, the department will consider the initiative and
willingness of the individual so exposed to submit to post-exposure anti-rabies
immunization after being adequately informed of all potential risks.
   C.   Any biting animal determined to be at significant risk for the
transmission of rabies shall, upon written order by the commissioner of health
or a specifically designated representative, be humanely killed and the brain
tissue submitted to the State Department of Health laboratory for rabies
testing.
   D.   The department may order the quarantine of an animal determined to be
at very low risk for the transmission of rabies for a thirty (30) day
observation period as an alternate method to euthanasia and testing.
Sec 10-313 Severe Bite Wounds Inflicted
In special circumstances involving a bite to any person, the Commissioner of
Health or a specifically designated representative may require the immediate
euthanasia of a specified animal for the performance of rabies diagnostics. The
term "special circumstances" refers to multiple and severe bite wounds or deep
punctures or lacerations to the face, head, or neck. Such requirement for
euthanasia will be made following investigation of the bite report by the
department designee.
Sec 10-314 When Dogs And Cats Confined
   A.   When the Health Officer or Animal Control Officer determines and
certifies that a dog, a cat, or other animal in the City or within five (5)
miles of the City is or was infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies
threatens the City, the Council, by resolution, may order all dogs to be
confined and, if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined during a period of
time to be determined by the Council and within such radius of the City as
determined by the Council. Such resolution or an adequate notice of its passage
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the City and
shall go into effect on the day following such publication unless the
resolution prescribes a later time.
   B.   The City Manager, when he deems it necessary due to health, safety, and
welfare conditions, may order emergency confinement of animals in the City or a
one (1) mile radius thereof. Such order shall not be effective for a period of
more than ten (10) days. Notice of the order shall be by posting a copy thereof
in at least three (3) places in the City; one (1) of such places shall be the
City hall.
   C.   While any such resolution or order is in effect, it is unlawful for any
owner to permit a dog or cat to be at large in violation of such resolution or
order.
   D.   The resolution or order may be enforced by the Animal Control Officer,
the Health Officer, or any police officer of the City.
Sec 10-315 Confinement Required
Any person owning, harboring, or keeping an animal, including a dog, cat, or
other domestic pet, which in the preceding ten (10) days has bitten any person
shall, upon receipt of written or oral notice by the Health Officer or his
designated representative or the City Animal Control Officer, place such animal
in confinement under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian for a period of
ten (10) days from the date the person was bitten.
Sec 10-316 Supervising Veterinarian's Responsibility
It shall be the duty of the veterinarian in whose supervision the dog, cat, or
ferret is placed to keep the animal isolated and secured in a separate cage or
kennel and under observation for any symptoms of rabies. The veterinarian shall
report immediately to the department designee any changes occurring in the
condition of the dog, cat, or ferret. In the event the animal being observed
dies or develops rabies-like symptoms within the specified period of
confinement, the animal if alive shall be euthanized. The animal's head shall
be removed immediately and packed in a shipping container in accordance with
instructions published on the rabies laboratory form, ODH Form 460, and sent to
the State Department of Health Laboratory, 1000 N.E. Tenth Street, Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma 73117-1299, for rabies testing.
Sec 10-317 Responsibility For Costs Incurred
Payment of fees incurred for daily boarding, euthanasia, preparation, and
transport of specimens for laboratory testing or any other costs incurred to
comply with O.A.C. 310:599 shall be the responsibility of the person or entity
owning, keeping, or harboring the animal. If the animal is a stray or wild
animal without a custodian, the bite victim or their legal guardian shall be
responsible for payment.
Sec 10-318 Confinement By Owner
In the event there is not a licensed veterinarian to provide supervision for
isolation and observation of the suspect animal within the County or where, in
the opinion of the Health Officer or Animal Control Officer, the person owning,
keeping, or harboring the suspect animal will pay for expenses, such person
shall, in accordance with instructions received from the Health Officer, his
designated representative, or Animal Control Officer, keep the suspect animal
securely penned and shall immediately advise the Health Officer or Animal
Control Officer of any changes occurring in the condition of the animal. In the
event of the animal's death or illness, the person so designated as responsible
for the animal shall immediately notify the Health Officer or Animal Control
Officer and make arrangements for removal of the animal's head, properly
packing it in a shipping container, and shipping it to the State Department of
Health.
Sec 10-319 Enforcement
It is the duty of the Animal Control Officer to enforce this article, and in
instances where responsibility for the suspect animal cannot be determined or
established, he shall make arrangements for the isolation and observation of
the animal.
Sec 10-320 Destruction Or Observation
Any domestic dog or cat which is not effectively immunized against rabies virus
encephalitis and is exposed to rabies through a rabid animal shall be destroyed
immediately either by the veterinarian in charge or by the local Animal Control
Officer or his agent, or such non-immunized, rabies exposed dog or cat shall be
strictly quarantined and observed for a period of six (6) months by either a
veterinarian or by the local Animal Control Officer or his agent. Such animal
shall be immunized against rabies at least thirty (30) days prior to release.
Expenses of quarantine and immunization shall be borne by the owner or other
person responsible for the animal.
Sec 10-321 Animals Considered Exposed
Unvaccinated domestic animals exposed to a rabid animal:
   A.   Any dog, cat, or ferret which is not currently vaccinated against
rabies and is exposed to a rabid animal shall be:
      1.   Euthanized immediately either by a veterinarian of the owner's
choice or the local Animal Control Officer or his agent; or
      2.   Placed in strict quarantine and observed for a period of six (6)
months under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian either at a veterinary
facility or a recognized animal control facility. The exposed animal shall be
immediately vaccinated against rabies upon entry into quarantine and then given
booster vaccinations at the third and eighth week of the quarantine period.
Animals less than sixteen (16) weeks of age at the time of entry into
quarantine may be required to receive a booster vaccine in addition to the
above protocol.
   B.   Any livestock or equine animal which is not currently vaccinated and is
exposed to a rabid animal will be managed according to the most current
compendium of animal rabies control published by the National Association of
State Public Health Veterinarians, Inc., and any State Department of
Agriculture guidelines that may apply.
Sec 10-322 Vaccinated Domestic Animals Exposed To Rabid Animals
Any domestic animal which is currently vaccinated against rabies and is exposed
to a rabid animal shall be revaccinated within three (3) days of notification
and isolated by leashing or confinement under the owner's supervision for a
period of at least forty-five (45) days.
Sec 10-323 Disposal Of Remains Of Disease Suspect Animal
When a veterinarian provides the service of head removal and preparation of any
animal specimen for testing of a zoonotic disease regulated under this article,
it shall be the responsibility of the veterinarian to properly dispose of the
bodily remains of the disease-suspect animal in a manner that will prevent any
potential future exposure by any person or other animal to that animal's
tissues. The veterinarian is entitled to charge and collect the usual and
customary fees for the disposal service.
ARTICLE 10-9 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
   
10-351   Poisoning Animals
   
10-352   Encouraging Animals To Fight
   
10-353   Animal Protection; Other Acts Prohibited
Sec 10-351 Poisoning Animals
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to willfully poison such animal,
except a noxious, non-domesticated animal, or knowingly to expose poison so
that it may be taken by such an animal.
Sec 10-352 Encouraging Animals To Fight
It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage any fight between
animals, with the exception of dogs, or to instigate or encourage any animal
with the exception of dogs to attack, bite, wound, or worry another, or to keep
a house, pit, or other place used in permitting any fight between animals with
the exception of dogs or in any other violation of this section.
Sec 10-353 Animal Protection; Other Acts Prohibited
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to deposit within the limits of this City
any live animal with the intention of abandoning such animal.
   B.   It is unlawful to carry out inhumane treatment against any animal.
“Inhuman treatment” is hereby defined to include, but is not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Any physical punishment inconsistent with the health of such animal:
      2.   Lack of food for more than a twenty-four (24) hour period;
      3.   Lack of access to clean drinking water at any time;
      4.   Knowingly permitting obvious nutritional deficiencies or other
evident health problems involving any animal;
      5.   Improper use of any collar or harness or a fixed leash for the
purpose of confining any animal which results in flesh laceration, obvious
pain, or to cause choking to such animal;
      6.   Depriving animal of adequate shelter; and
      7.   Inhuman killing or attempting to kill any animal.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to unjustifiably administer any poisonous
or noxious drug or substance to any animal or unjustifiably expose any such
drug or substance with intent that the same shall be taken by an animal,
whether such animal be the property of himself or another.
   D.   1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to keep or
maintain the animal on a tie-out, tether, picket, or similar device consisting
of a rope, cable, or any other type of tether for any duration unless
continually supervised by its owner or other adult responsible for the animal
at the time. Exemptions to this section may be granted by any Animal Welfare
Officer or Commissioned Police Officer.
      2.   Any person who receives an exemption shall ensure that the animal
will not be on the tie-out, tether, picket, or similar device for any duration
under conditions which may reasonably threaten the health or well-being of the
animal. The owner of a dog or cat maintained on a tether of any type shall
properly fit the animal with a harness or collar to which the tether shall be
attached. The tether shall be of adequate length to allow reasonable exercise,
access to water, shelter, and shall not be subject to entanglement with other
objects in any manner that may cause the animal injury or clear discomfort or
be a weight disproportionate to the size of the animal so tethered as to unduly
burden the animal. Tethering dogs or cats using chains or prong collars is
prohibited. Tethering of an unsupervised dog or cat is prohibited when the
outside air temperature is not between thirty-five (35) and ninety (90) degrees
Fahrenheit.
   E.   Upon conviction of a violation of this chapter for inhuman treatment to
any animal, it is unlawful for the owner or keeper of such animal to not
release such animal kept in inhuman conditions to an Animal Control Officer for
disposition in accord with the provisions of this chapter.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 22-07 on 7/5/2022
Amended by Ord. 25-01 on 2/3/2025
Amended by Ord. 25-03 on 3/3/2025
CHAPTER 14 BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 14-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 14-2 BUILDING CODE
ARTICLE 14-3 PLUMBING
ARTICLE 14-4 GAS
ARTICLE 14-5 MECHANICAL INSTALLATIONS
ARTICLE 14-6 ELECTRICITY
ARTICLE 14-7 ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE
ARTICLE 14-8 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE, ENERGY CONSERVATION CODES
ARTICLE 14-9 MOVING BUILDINGS
ARTICLE 14-10 DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
Cross reference- Buildings for animals; construction, conditions, §
10-31; environment, Ch.
34; floods, Ch.
42; health and sanitation, Ch.
46; manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62; natural resources, Ch.
66; planning, Ch.
82; signs, Ch.
86; subdivision design for building lines, §
94-177.
State Law reference- Building codes, adoption by cities, 11 O.S. § 14-107, 74
O.S. § 324.8; license taxes on occupations, 11 O.S. § 22-106 et seq.;
dilapidated buildings, 11 O.S. § 22-112 et seq.; fire hazards and building
location restrictions, 11 O.S. § 22-113; certain building permits required, 74
O.S. § 324.11
ARTICLE 14-1 IN GENERAL
   
14-1   Fire District
   
14-2   House Numbering System
   
14-3   Maintenance Of Landmarks And Historic Sites
Sec 14-1 Fire District
The fire district is that part of the City described as follows:
   Blocks 114, 115, 116, and 117, and the south half of Blocks 111, 112, 113,
and 94 in the original townsite of the City.
(Code 1991, § 5-105)
Sec 14-2 House Numbering System
   A.   Every premises numbered. All business and dwelling units fronting on
any street or avenue within the City shall be numbered, and every fifty (50)
foot frontage on each street shall be entitled to a number.
   B.   East-west numbering system. On all streets and avenues running east and
west crossing Canadian Avenue, numbering shall begin with Canadian Avenue with
the number 100, east or west, as the case may be, with even numbers on the
south side of the street and odd numbers on the north side of the street.
   C.   North-south numbering. On all streets and avenues running north and
south crossing Main Street, numbering shall begin with Main Street with the
number 100, north or south, as the case may be, the even numbers on the east
side and the odd numbers on the west side of the street.
   D.   Duty of City officials. It is the duty of the City Manager or the
Building Official to give proper numbers to all parties requesting the same, as
herein provided.
   E.   Duty of owner. It is the duty of the owner of any house or houses to
put the proper number on them in a conspicuous place, easily to be seen from
the street, and any person failing or neglecting to do so, after notification
by the Building Official, shall be guilty of an offense.
   F.   Subdivisions and developments not complying with number system. In
situations where the subdivision plat or development pattern of the area does
not fit the established house numbering system, as established in this section,
the Planning Commission shall study the area and recommend to the City Council,
for adoption by ordinance, a suitable amendment to this section to cover the
situation.
(Code 1991, § 5-108)
Sec 14-3 Maintenance Of Landmarks And Historic Sites
   A.   Every person in charge of an improvement on a historic site or in a
historic district shall keep in good repair all of the exterior portions of
such improvement and all interior portions which, if not so maintained, may
cause, or tend to cause, the exterior portions of such improvement to fall into
a state of disrepair. This section shall be in addition to all other provisions
of law or local ordinance or code requiring buildings or structures to be well-
maintained.
   B.   Insofar as they are applicable to a landmark, historic site, or
improvement in a historic district, any provision of the building code may be
varied or waived, on application, by the Building Official, provided such
variance or waiver does not endanger public health or safety.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, demolition, or any improvement on a historic site
or in a historic district pursuant to written order of any federal or State
agency or pursuant to any court judgment to remedy conditions determined to be
dangerous to life or health. In such case, no approval from the Preservation
Review Commission shall be required.
(Code 1991, § 5-109)
State Law reference- Oklahoma Historical Preservation Act, 53 O.S. § 1-1 et
seq.; Local Development Act, 62 O.S. § 850 et seq.
ARTICLE 14-2 BUILDING CODE
   
14-26   Adopted
   
14-27   Additions, Insertions, And Changes
   
14-28   Building Official
   
14-29   Building Permit Required; Fee
   
14-30   Penalty
Sec 14-26 Adopted
   A.   There is hereby adopted that certain code known as the International
Building Code 2015, as amended and modified by the state uniform building code
commission pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.23, as the Building Code of the City of
Purcell, in the State of Oklahoma, for regulating and governing the conditions
and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for
occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use and the demolition of such structures as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Building code. Three (3) copies of which are on
file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Purcell, are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
ordinance.
   B.   There is hereby adopted that certain code known as the International
Existing Building Code 2015, as amended and modified by the state uniform
building code commission pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.23, be and is hereby
adopted as the Existing Building Code of the City of Purcell, in the State of
Oklahoma, for regulating and governing the repair, alteration, change of
occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings, including historic
buildings, in the City of Purcell, Oklahoma; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Existing Building Code.
Three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk of the
City of Purcell, are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 5-101)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-09 on 10/7/2019 Amended by Ord. 19-10 on 10/7/2019
Sec 14-27 Additions, Insertions, And Changes
The following sections of the Building Code are revised as follows:
   A.   Section 101.1, insert: "City of Purcell";
   B.   Section 109.2, insert: "The schedule of permit fees shall be in
accordance with the City Code of Ordinances or as may be set or amended by
resolution";
   C.   Section 114.4, insert: "Guilty of an offense, subject to punishment by
fine as prescribed by section 1-12 of the City Code of Ordinances";
   D.   Section 115.3, insert: "as prescribed by section 1-12 of the City Code
of Ordinances."
(Code 1991, § 5-102)
Sec 14-28 Building Official
The Building Official of this City shall be appointed by the City Manager and
shall have the powers and duties prescribed for the Building Official by the
City's building code; provided that his powers and duties may be exercised by
his authorized representatives under his supervision and control. The terms
"Building Inspector," "Electrical Inspector," "Plumbing Inspector," "Mechanical
Inspector," and "Gas Inspector," whenever used in the ordinances of the City,
refer to and mean the Building Official, unless a separate Building Inspector,
Electrical Inspector, or Gas Inspector is appointed by the City Manager.
(Code 1991, § 5-104)
Cross reference- Officers and employees, §
2-56 et seq.
Sec 14-29 Building Permit Required; Fee
   A.   Required. No building or other structure, including a mobile home,
shall be built, enlarged, altered, moved, or placed without a building permit
issued by the City as required by the City's building code and whenever
structural changes will amount to more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in
cost.
   B.   Application for permit: information required. A person desiring a
building permit shall submit an application therefor to the City. The applicant
shall submit with the application such reasonable information, including any
additional computations, information on water, sewer tap or temporary service,
or plot plan, as the Building Official may require to enable him to determine
whether granting the permit would be in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances of the City.
   C.   Issuance of permit upon payment of fee. If the application is in
accordance with the requirements of the ordinances and laws, the permit may be
issued upon the payment by the applicant of a building permit fee, which fee
shall be set by resolution of the City Council. A current copy of the fee
schedule shall be kept in the Office of the City Clerk.
   D.   Fees doubled when work started without permit. Where work for which a
permit is required by the City's building code is started or proceeded with
prior to obtaining the permit, the fees specified in the fee schedule on file
in the Office of the City Clerk shall be doubled, but the payment of such
double fee shall not relieve any persons from fully complying with the
requirements of the building code in the execution of the work nor from any
other penalties prescribed herein.
   E.   All fees included. The fees referred to in this section shall include
all building, electrical, mechanical, and plumbing permit and inspection fees.
   F.   State required fees for the issuance of building permits. Pursuant to
State statute 59 O.S. §§ 1000.23 and 1000.25, also known as the Uniform
Building Code Commission Act, as of April 1 , 2010, the City of Purcell is
required and authorized by the State to, and shall impose a fee of four dollars
($4.00) per building or construction permit issued by the City. Monies shall be
remitted to the Uniform Building Code Commission before the 20th of each month.
An additional fifty cent ($0.50) fee is required and authorized by the State
and shall be imposed and received by the City to support the processing and
handling of this fee (for a total of four dollars and fifty cents ($4.50) per
permit).
(Code 1991, § 5-106(A)(l); Ord. No. 10-07, 4-5-2010)
State Law reference- Building permit fees, 59 O.S. §§ 1000.23 and 1000.25.
Sec 14-30 Penalty
A person who violates a provision of the building code or fails to comply
therewith or with any of the requirements thereof, or who erects, constructs,
alters, repairs, or removes, or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired, or
removed a building or structure in violation of a detailed statement or plan
submitted and approved there under or of a permit or certificate issued there
under, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code, including costs. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Code 1991, § 5-103)
ARTICLE 14-3 PLUMBING
DIVISION 14-3-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 14-3-2 PLUMBING CODE
DIVISION 14-3-3 PLUMBERS
DIVISION 14-3-1 GENERALLY
Sec 14-56 Plumbing Inspectors; Office Created; Duties
The Office of Inspector of Plumbing shall be filled and the duties of the
office performed by some person appointed by the City Manager. Such inspector
shall make inspection and testing of all plumbing and sewer connections done
within the City and shall have the right to deputize any person equally
qualified to make the actual inspections and report. He shall carry out the
performance of this chapter.
(Code 1991, § 5-205)
Cross reference- Officers and employees, §
2-56 et seq.
State Law reference- Plumbing inspector, 59 O.S. § 1016.
DIVISION 14-3-2 PLUMBING CODE
   
14-81   Adopted
   
14-82   Addition, Insertions, And Changes
   
14-83   Permits; Fees
   
14-84   Affidavit Required For Homeowner's Permit
Sec 14-81 Adopted
There is hereby adopted that certain code known as the International Plumbing
Code 2015, as amended and modified by the state uniform building code
commission pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.23, as the minimum Residential Code of
the City of Purcell, in the State of Oklahoma, for regulating and governing the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
plumbing systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Plumbing Code on file in the office of
the City Clerk of the City of Purcell. Three (3) copies of which are on file in
the office of the City Clerk of the City of Purcell.
(Code 1991, § 5-201)
State Law reference- Plumbing codes, adoption by cities, 11 O.S. § 14-107;
municipal regulation of plumbing and sewerage, 59 O.S. §§ 1015-1023.1.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-14 on 10/7/2019
Sec 14-82 Addition, Insertions, And Changes
The following sections of the plumbing code are revised as follows:
   A.   Section 101.1, insert: the City of Purcell;
   B.   Section 106.6.2, insert: "in accordance with the City Code of
Ordinances, or as may be set or amended by resolution";
   C.   Section 108.4, insert: "offense and punished as prescribed by section
1-12 of the City's Code of Ordinances";
   D.   Section 108.5, insert: "as prescribed by section 1-12 of the City Code
of Ordinances";
   E.   Section 701.2, insert "as prescribed by the City."
(Code 1991, § 5-202)
Sec 14-83 Permits; Fees
   A.   No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a permit from the Plumbing
Inspector.
   B.   Payment of permit fees will be made upon application.
(Code 1991, § 5-204(A), (C))
Sec 14-84 Affidavit Required For Homeowner's Permit
A homeowner shall be entitled to secure a permit for plumbing installation only
upon executing an affidavit attesting to the following:
   A.   Ownership of the property upon which the plumbing installation is to be
applied.
   B.   Applicant's bona fide intention to live therein.
   C.   Applicant has not secured a homeowner's permit for other property
within the last two (2) years. A variance may be applied for.
   D.   Applicant will perform all of the plumbing installation in compliance
with applicable codes, without any physical assistance from anyone other than
members of his immediate family living in his household.
Nothing contained in this section shall entitle anyone except a licensed
plumbing contractor to secure a permit to install plumbing in any structure
other than a "dwelling, single-family."
(Ord. No. 01-02, § 5-203, 3-5-2001)
DIVISION 14-3-3 PLUMBERS
   
14-111   Definitions; Registration
Sec 14-111 Definitions; Registration
   A.   Definition of terms generally. The terms "journeyman plumber,"
"apprentice," "plumber's apprentice," "plumbing contractor," and "plumbing,"
when used in the ordinances, regulations, and other official acts and
communications of this City, shall have the meanings respectively prescribed
for them by the Plumbing License Law of 1955 (59 O.S. § 1001 et seq.), unless
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   B.   Registration required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business, trade, or occupation of a plumbing contractor (formerly known as a
master plumber) in this City unless he is registered with the City and has a
current and valid certificate of registration issued by the City.
   C.   State licenses required for registration. Only persons who have current
and valid licenses as plumbing contractors issued by the State Commissioner of
Health as provided by the Plumbing License Law of 1955 may register as such
with the City.
   D.   Application; issuance; expiration. Upon application to the City, the
City shall register such applicants and issue to them certificates of
registration. Such City certificates shall not be valid after the termination
or expiration of the State licenses or certificates. Registration certificates
of plumbing contractors issued as provided in this section shall expire on
December 31 each year. No fee shall be prorated for part of the year.
   E.   Fees. The fee for registration and renewal shall be as set by the City
Council by motion or resolution.
   F.   Revocation. The City Council, upon at least ten (10) days' notice and
adequate opportunity for a public hearing, may revoke the City registration of
any plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber for violating any provisions of
the ordinances or regulations of the City relating to the installation of
plumbing or for any other cause specified in the Plumbing License Law of 1955.
   G.   Plumber's apprentices. The terms "apprentice" and "plumber's
apprentice" mean any person sixteen (16) years of age or older who, as his
principal occupation, is engaged in learning and assisting in the installation
of plumbing under the direct supervision of a licensed journeyman plumber or
plumbing contractor. No person shall work in the capacity of an apprentice
except under direct supervision of a licensed journeyman or contractor. No
person shall work in the capacity of an apprentice without having been issued a
valid and unrevoked certificate of registration as a plumber's apprentice from
the State Department of Health.
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- State plumbing licenses and certificates, 59 O.S. § 1001
et seq.
ARTICLE 14-4 GAS
DIVISION 14-4-1 GENERALLY (RESERVED)
DIVISION 14-4-2 CODES
DIVISION 14-4-1 GENERALLY (RESERVED)
DIVISION 14-4-2 CODES
   
14-161   National Fuel Gas Code Adopted
   
14-162   NFPA LP-Gas Code Adopted
Sec 14-161 National Fuel Gas Code Adopted
There is hereby adopted that certain code known as the International Fuel Gas
Code 2015, as amended and modified by the state uniform building code
commission pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.23, as the minimum Residential Code of
the City of Purcell, in the State of Oklahoma, for regulating and governing
fuel gas systems and gas-fired appliances as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Fuel Gas Code
on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Purcell.
Three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk of the
City of Purcell.
(Code 1991, § 5-501)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-12 on 10/7/2019
Sec 14-162 NFPA LP-Gas Code Adopted
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to manufacture, fabricate,
assemble, install, or repair any system, container, apparatus, or appliance to
be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing, or utilization of
liquefied petroleum gas or to transport, handle, or store such gas unless such
person has complied with and complies with all provisions of the law and
ordinances relating thereto and has any license or permit which may be required
by State law. The pamphlet, LP-Gas Code, as contained in Pamphlet No. 58 issued
by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., the latest edition thereof,
adopted by the Oklahoma Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board, shall have full force
and effect within the City. Any violation of these rules and regulations shall
be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the City and shall be punished
accordingly.
(Code 1991, § 5-401)
ARTICLE 14-5 MECHANICAL INSTALLATIONS
DIVISION 14-5-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 14-5-2 MECHANICAL CODE
DIVISION 14-5-3 MECHANICAL TRADES
DIVISION 14-5-1 GENERALLY
   
14-186   Definitions
Sec 14-186 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Mechanical apprentice and apprentice mean any person sixteen (16) years
of age or older whose principal occupation is learning mechanical work on the
job under the direct supervision of a journeyman or contractor.
(Code 1991, § 5-802(C))
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- 59 O.S. § 1850.2.
DIVISION 14-5-2 MECHANICAL CODE
   
14-211   Adopted
   
14-212   Permit Required For Mechanical Work; Issuance
   
14-213   Affidavit Required For Homeowner's Permit
Sec 14-211 Adopted
There is hereby adopted that certain code known as the International Mechanical
Code 2015, as amended and modified by the state uniform building code
commission pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.23, as the minimum Residential Code of
the City of Purcell, in the State of Oklahoma, for regulating and governing the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
plumbing systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Mechanical Code on file in the office
of the City Clerk of the City of Purcell. Three (3) copies of which are on file
in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Purcell.
(Code 1991, § 5-801)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-13 on 10/7/2019
Sec 14-212 Permit Required For Mechanical Work; Issuance
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to do any mechanical work in or on any
building or structure in the corporate limits of this City or make extensions
to any existing mechanical work without first paying a permit fee and securing
a permit from the City Mechanical Inspector.
   B.   Applications for mechanical permits shall be made to the City Clerk,
and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications, and other data as
may be reasonably required.
(Code 1991, § 5-803(A), (B))
Sec 14-213 Affidavit Required For Homeowner's Permit
A homeowner shall be entitled to secure a permit for mechanical installation
only upon executing an affidavit attesting to the following:
   A.   Ownership of the property upon which the mechanical installation is to
be applied.
   B.   Applicant's bona fide intention to live therein.
   C.   Applicant has not secured a homeowner's permit for other property
within the last two (2) years. A variance may be applied for.
   D.   Applicant will perform all of the mechanical installation in compliance
with applicable codes without any physical assistance from anyone other than
members of his immediate family living in his household.
Nothing herein contained shall entitle anyone except a licensed mechanical
contractor to secure a permit to perform mechanical installations in any
structure other than a single-family dwelling.
(Ord. No. 01-02, § 5-802, 3-5-2001)
DIVISION 14-5-3 MECHANICAL TRADES
Sec 14-241 Registration
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade, or
vocation of mechanical contractor without a certificate of registration as such
secured from the City. The initial fee for a registration certificate and any
renewal to be paid to the City Clerk shall be as set by the City Council. After
the expiration, an application for a new certificate must be requested and the
initial fee paid again. No person may be registered with the City as a
mechanical contractor unless he possesses a valid and current State license or
certificate of registration, as applicable, and pays the registration fee in
such sum as set by the City Council by resolution. This certificate is not
transferable to any other individual or company.
   B.   After adequate opportunity for a hearing, the City Council may revoke
the certificate of a mechanical contractor.
   C.   No person shall work in the capacity of a mechanical apprentice except
under direct supervision of a licensed mechanical journeyman or mechanical
contractor. No person shall work in the capacity of a mechanical apprentice
without having been issued a valid and unrevoked mechanical apprentice license
from the State Department of Health.
(Code 1991, § 5-802)
State Law reference- Electrical codes, adoption by cities, 11 O.S. § 14-107;
Electrical License Act, 59 O.S. § 1680 et seq.
ARTICLE 14-6 ELECTRICITY
DIVISION 14-6-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 14-6-2 ELECTRICAL CODES AND STANDARDS
DIVISION 14-6-3 ELECTRICIANS
Cross reference- Utilities, Ch.
110.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 59 O.S. § 1682.
DIVISION 14-6-1 GENERALLY
   
14-266   Definitions
   
14-267   Electrical Inspector
Sec 14-266 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Electrical apprentice means any person sixteen (16) years of age or
older whose principal occupation is the learning of and assisting in the
installation of electrical work under the direct supervision of a licensed
journeyman electrician or electrical contractor.
   B.   Electrical equipment means electrical conductors, metallic raceways,
fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances, apparatus, and any electrical material
of any nature, kind, or description to be installed within or on any building
or structure.
(Code 1991, §§ 5-301, 5-310)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec 14-267 Electrical Inspector
The Electrical Inspector is appointed and removed by the City Manager. Deputy
or assistant inspectors may also be appointed and removed by the City Manager
to assist the Electrical Inspector with inspections or enforcement and
administration of this chapter.
(Code 1991, § 5-311)
Cross reference- Officers and employees, §
2-56 et seq.
DIVISION 14-6-2 ELECTRICAL CODES AND STANDARDS
   
14-291   Equipment Generally; Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc
   
14-292   National Electrical Code Adopted
   
14-293   ICC Electrical Code Administrative Provisions Adopted
   
14-294   National Electrical Safety Code
   
14-295   City Council May Make Special Rulings
   
14-296   Permit Required For Electrical Installations; Issuance
   
14-297   Affidavit Required For Homeowner's Permit
   
14-298   Installation Not To Be Concealed Until Approved
   
14-299   Work "Roughed In"
   
14-300   Premises Not To Be Connected Until Installation Is Approved
   
14-301   Failure To Comply
   
14-302   Inspection No Relief From Responsibility
Sec 14-291 Equipment Generally; Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc
All installations of electrical equipment and all electrical equipment
installed or used shall be in conformity with the provisions of this article,
the statutes of the State, and any orders, rules, and regulations issued by the
authority thereof, and with approved electrical standards for safety to persons
and/or to property. Unless by this article, by a statute of the State, or any
orders, rules, or regulations issued by authority thereof, a specific type or
class of electrical equipment is disapproved for installation and use,
conformity with the standards of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., shall be
prima facie evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to
persons or to property.
(Code 1991, §§ 5-302, 5-303)
Sec 14-292 National Electrical Code Adopted
The latest edition of the National Electrical Code, three (3) copies of which
are on file in the Office of the City Clerk, is adopted as the electrical code
of the City.
(Code 1991, § 5-302)
Sec 14-293 ICC Electrical Code Administrative Provisions Adopted
The latest edition of the ICC Electrical Administrative Provisions, published
by the International Code Council, Inc., three (3) copies of which are on file
in the Office of the City Clerk, is adopted as the electrical code
administrative provisions of the City.
Sec 14-294 National Electrical Safety Code
The latest edition of the National Electrical Safety Code, published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, Inc., three (3) copies of
which are on file in the Office of the City Clerk, is adopted as the code of
the City for the practical safeguarding of persons during the installation,
operation, or maintenance of overhead and underground supply and communication
lines and their associated equipment.
(Ord. No. 98-21, § 1, 9-8-1998)
Sec 14-295 City Council May Make Special Rulings
The City Council, by resolution, shall have the authority to make special
rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life and property
and the improvement of electrical installations. In all cases, persons engaged
in the installing of electrical equipment and holding an electrical license
must be notified by letter of these decisions.
(Code 1991, § 5-304)
Sec 14-296 Permit Required For Electrical Installations; Issuance
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to install any electrical wiring,
fixtures, or apparatus in or on any building or structure in the corporate
limits of this City or make extensions to any existing electrical installations
without first paying a permit fee and securing a permit from the City.
   B.   Applications for electrical permits shall be made to the City. The
applicant shall provide such plans, specifications, and other data as may be
reasonably required.
(Code 1991, § 5-305(A), (B))
Sec 14-297 Affidavit Required For Homeowner's Permit
A homeowner shall be entitled to secure a permit for electrical installation
only upon executing an affidavit attesting to the following:
   A.   Ownership of the property upon which the electrical installation is to
be applied.
   B.   Applicant's bona fide intention to live therein.
   C.   Applicant has not secured a homeowner's permit for other property
within the last two (2) years. A variance may be applied for.
   D.   Applicant will perform all of the electrical installation in compliance
with applicable codes without any physical assistance from anyone other than
members of his immediate family living in his household.
Nothing herein contained shall entitle anyone, except a licensed electrical
contractor, to secure a permit to perform electrical installation in any
structure other than a single-family dwelling.
(Ord. No. 01-02, § 5-310, 3-5-2001)
Sec 14-298 Installation Not To Be Concealed Until Approved
It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or individual to
conceal or cause to be concealed any electrical equipment used for electrical
light, heat, or power until they know the installation has been approved by the
Electrical Inspector. A tag in the switch cabinet or attached to the service
equipment properly signed and dated, will be sufficient notice.
(Code 1991, § 5-307)
Sec 14-299 Work "Roughed In"
After making inspection of new work "roughed in," the Electrical Inspector
shall leave a tag or notice in the switch cabinet or attached to the service
equipment plainly indicating whether the work has been approved and is ready to
conceal or that the installation is not standard and must not be covered until
approved by the Electrical Inspector.
(Code 1991, § 5-308)
Sec 14-300 Premises Not To Be Connected Until Installation Is Approved
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to connect or cause to be
connected any service or building for the supply of electrical current for
light, heat or, power until he or it has been notified by the Electrical
Inspector that electric work has been inspected and approved and is ready for
electric service.
(Code 1991, § 5-309)
Sec 14-301 Failure To Comply
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall fail to correct any defect
or defects in his work or to meet the required standards after having been
given notice of the unfit condition by the Electrical Inspector within a
reasonable time shall be refused any other permit until such defect or defects
have been corrected and shall be subject to revocation of license for continual
defective work, or either, upon conviction for violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Upon failure to comply with this article, the Electrical Inspector
shall have authority, after due notice, to cut off electric current in the
locality concerned.
   C.   The provisions of subsections (A) and (B) of this section are in
addition to any other penalties that may be imposed for such violations.
(Code 1991, § 5-312)
Sec 14-302 Inspection No Relief From Responsibility
This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibilities of any person, partnership, or corporation owning, operating,
or installing electrical wires, appliances, apparatus, construction, or
equipment for the damage to property or persons injured by any defect therein.
Nor shall the City or any agent thereof be deemed to assume any such liability
by reason of the inspection authorized herein or the certificate of inspection
issued by the Electrical Inspector.
(Code 1991, § 5-313)
DIVISION 14-6-3 ELECTRICIANS
   
14-331   Registration
State Law reference- Electrical License Act, 59 O.S. § 1680 et seq.
Sec 14-331 Registration
   A.   Required; initial fee; expiration; transferability. It is unlawful for
any person to engage in the business, trade, or vocation of electrical
contractor without a certificate of registration as such secured from the
Electrical Inspector. The initial fee for an electrical contractor's
registration certificate, and any renewal to be paid to the City, shall be as
set by the City Council. After the expiration, an application for a new
certificate must be requested and the initial fee paid again. All such
certificates shall expire each year. This certificate is not transferable to
any other individual or company.
   B.   State license or certificate required. No person may be registered by
the City unless he possesses the appropriate current and valid State license or
certificate issued by the State Department of Health.
   C.   Bells or signal systems using less than twelve (12) volts. For the
installing of bell, telephone, or signal systems not using over twelve (12)
volts, no registration certificate or bond will be required. The installation
of same must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances of the City.
   D.   Revocation. After adequate opportunity for a hearing and for just
cause, the City Council may revoke the certificate of an electrical contractor,
an electrical apprentice, or a journeyman electrician.
   E.   Apprentices. No person shall work in the capacity of an electrical
apprentice except under direct supervision of a licensed journeyman electrician
or electrical contractor. No person shall work in the capacity of an apprentice
without having been issued a valid and unrevoked apprentice registration
certificate from the State Department of Health.
(Code 1991, § 5-310)
ARTICLE 14-7 ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE
   
14-356   Adopted
Cross reference- Zoning, Ch.
122.
Sec 14-356 Adopted
There is hereby adopted that certain code known as the International
Residential Code 2015, as amended and modified by the state uniform building
code commission pursuant to 59 O.S. § 1000.23, as the minimum Residential Code
of the City of Purcell, in the State of Oklahoma, for regulating and governing
the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached one-and-two-family
dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three
stories in height with separate means of egress as herein provided; providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Residential Code on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of
Purcell. Three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk
of the City of Purcell. (Code 1991, § 5-701)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-15 on 10/7/2019
ARTICLE 14-8 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE, ENERGY CONSERVATION CODES
   
14-381   Adopted
Sec 14-381 Adopted
There is hereby adopted that certain code known as the International Property
Maintenance Code 2015 and the International Energy Conservation Code 2015, as
the Property Maintenance Code and the Energy Conservation Code of the City of
Purcell, in the State of Oklahoma. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, and terms of such codes are hereby referred to, adopted,
incorporated, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this Code with the
additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in this
chapter. Three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk
of the City of Purcell, are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 5-107)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-11 on 10/7/2019
ARTICLE 14-9 MOVING BUILDINGS
DIVISION 14-9-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 14-9-2 PERMITS
DIVISION 14-9-1 GENERALLY
   
14-406   Applicability Of Article
   
14-407   Caution Signs
   
14-408   Protection Of Trees And Overhead Structures
   
14-409   Guards Against Danger
   
14-410   Notice To Fire And Police Departments
   
14-411   Liability
Sec 14-406 Applicability Of Article
   A.   Houses or buildings which are subject to this article shall include
those where the size exceeds:
      1.   Twelve (12) feet in height or width; or
      2.   Square footage of two hundred forty (240) feet.
   B.   Mobile or manufactured homes as defined in Chapter 62 of this Code
shall not be subject to this article.
(Code 1991, § 5-601(C))
Cross reference- Environment, Ch.
34; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 14-407 Caution Signs
It is the duty of the permittee to place warning lights plainly visible for not
less than two hundred (200) feet on each and every side of the building or
structure which is being moved at the close of day and to keep such lights on
throughout the entire night and until
one (1) hour after sunrise on the morning following. Such lights shall be so
placed and maintained that the view of the lights will not be in any sense
obstructed. If necessary, as many additional lights as may be necessary shall
be placed at such other points on the building or structure as will enable any
person of reasonable and ordinary prudence to take notice of the obstruction.
(Code 1991, § 5-604)
Sec 14-408 Protection Of Trees And Overhead Structures
The person who may have a permit to move a building or structure over any
street within the City shall by virtue of such permit derive no right to injure
or impair the condition or usefulness of any shade tree, electric light,
telephone, or telegraph poles or lines. No tree of any kind shall be cut,
bruised, or scarred under any circumstances without the expressed permission in
writing of the owner of the same and with the permission of the Building
Official or public works director. In all cases where necessary to remove any
electric light, telephone, or telegraph construction, it shall be the duty of
the person moving such building or structure to give not less than twenty-four
(24) hours' notice to the public utility company or person owning or operating
the same, which notice shall state the place, the construction which it is
necessary to be removed or temporarily changed or altered, and the day on which
it is desired to have such clearance made as well as the amount of time it will
be necessary to keep such space clear. It is the duty of the person moving the
building or structure to deposit an amount of money estimated necessary to
cover the cost of the changing or moving of public utility overhead
construction and replacing the same in its former condition in a sum as set by
the City with the City Clerk. Upon such deposit being made with the City Clerk
and such notice being delivered to the owner or operator of the telephone or
telegraph and line construction, it is the duty of the person owning or
operating the overhead construction to make such temporary changes as are
reasonably necessary to comply with the representations set forth in the notice
made and delivered to him.
(Code 1991, § 5-605)
Sec 14-409 Guards Against Danger
It is the duty of the house mover to station sufficient persons on guard and to
establish such notices by placards or boards or other means in the immediate
vicinity of the moving activities as will be necessary to apprise any
reasonable person of any potential danger that might be incurred by coming
closer to the moving operations or buildings being moved or the instruments or
agencies used in the moving of the same.
(Code 1991, § 5-606)
Sec 14-410 Notice To Fire And Police Departments
Any person desiring to move any building shall show his City building moving
permit to the Fire Chief and to the Chief of Police. If for any reason any
delay is occasioned by any unforeseen contingency, it is such person's duty to
inform the Fire Chief and the Chief of Police of such facts, to the end that
the Fire Chief and Chief of Police may keep accurate and recent information on
the true conditions of the streets and alleys for fire prevention purposes.
(Code 1991, § 5-609)
Sec 14-411 Liability
No provision or condition of this article shall be construed so as to limit the
civil liability of any person moving any house or building on or over the City
streets, avenues, and alleys from any and all damages to any person or to his
property or to the City.
(Code 1991, § 5-610)
DIVISION 14-9-2 PERMITS
   
14-436   Permit Required; Fee
   
14-437   Application For Permit
   
14-438   Bond Required For Permit
   
14-439   Limit To Size Of Building, Other Restrictions, Police Approval
   
14-440   Time Limit
Sec 14-436 Permit Required; Fee
It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or individual to
move or cause to be moved on the streets or alleys of the City any house or
building, or part thereof, without having first obtained a permit as required
by law, and having first obtained from the Building Official a permit therefor
as required in this article and a building permit as required in the City's
building code. In addition to the requirements for a building permit, the
applicant for a City building moving permit shall pay the City Clerk a fee set
by resolution of the City Council for each such permit and shall deposit with
the City Clerk a good and sufficient bond as required in this article.
(Code 1991, § 601(A), (B))
State Law reference- House mover permits, 19 O.S. § 526.
Sec 14-437 Application For Permit
A City building moving permit shall be obtained by making application therefor
in writing. The written application shall recite the character of the thing or
object to be moved and transported along or through and upon the streets and
avenues, the proposed route of such transportation, proposed escorts and
warning signs or lights, and the place where any equipment used in effecting
such transportation shall be placed and secured.
(Code 1991, § 5-602)
Sec 14-438 Bond Required For Permit
No City building moving permit shall be issued under this article until such
time as the applicant shall have deposited with the officer issuing such permit
a cash bond in such sum as may be reasonably necessary to protect the City and
cover all loss from damage accruing to it or its citizens by reason of any
negligence or improper occupancy of the streets, sidewalks, and any and all
property therein. Any negligence or improper occupancy of the streets,
sidewalks, or other public places shall be provided against in the bond and
such bond shall be deposited upon the understanding that it is to cover all of
the conditions as set forth in this section of this article. All such persons
as described in this section engaged as principals in the business described in
this section shall file a surety bond to be approved by the City in the sum of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned that such person shall save,
indemnify, and keep harmless the City against any and all liabilities,
judgments, damages, costs, and expenses which may in any way accrue against the
City in consequence of the granting of such permit or while acting under the
same and will under all circumstances strictly comply with the terms of such
permit. Any such surety bond shall not be in any manner affected by the fact of
the cash deposit and bond required in this article. Any such person as referred
to in this section or his laborer, servant, or agent or employee shall cause a
sufficient passageway to be kept open for vehicles to pass on one (1) side or
both sides of any building, structure, edifice, object, or thing while the same
is being moved upon any street, avenue, or alley and, when possible, the same
shall be kept moving each day unless the actual elements render this
impossible.
(Code 1991, § 5-603)
Sec 14-439 Limit To Size Of Building, Other Restrictions, Police Approval
   A.   No City permit shall be issued to move any building which in the
judgment of the Building Official might by any chance result in an injury to
the pavements, bridges, conduits, or other street improvements within the City.
   B.   No such permit may be issued by the Building Official without advance
approval of the Chief of Police, particularly with reference to the moving
times, proposed route, escorts, and traffic coordination with this section.
(Code 1991, § 5-607)
Sec 14-440 Time Limit
At the time of application for a City building moving permit it is the duty of
the mover of any building or structure to estimate the reasonable time required
for the moving of the building from its present location to its proposed
location and shall state in his application for permit what he deems to be such
reasonable time. The mover shall bind himself to pay a sum as set by the City
per day for each and every day all or any part of which the building or
structure remains on the street in excess of the number of days allowed in the
permit, and his cash deposit in addition to his bond shall be made liable for
the payment of the amount. Nothing but the Act of God shall be a defense
against the payment of the sums.
(Code 1991, § 5-608)
ARTICLE 14-10 DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
   
14-466   Definitions
   
14-467   Report; Hearing
   
14-468   Condemnation; Notice; Removal; Lien
   
14-469   Boarding And Securing Dilapidated Buildings
   
14-470   Cleaning Up Premises From Which Buildings Have Been Removed, Torn
Down, Or Demolished By Order Of State Fire Marshal Or Pursuant To This Article
   
14-471   Preservation Review Of Demolition Activities
   
14-472   Penalty
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. §§ 22-112, 22-112.1.
Sec 14-466 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Boarding and securing and boarded and secured mean the closing,
boarding, or locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry
into the structure.
   B.   Dilapidated building means:
      1.   A structure which through neglect or injury lacks necessary repairs
or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent that the
structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public;
      2.   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of
necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public;
      3.   A structure which is determined by the City Council or
administrative officer of the City Council to be an unsecured building more
than three (3) times within any twelve (12) month period;
      4.   A structure which has been boarded and secured, as defined in this
section, for more than thirty-six (36) consecutive months; or
      5.   A structure declared by the City Council to constitute a public
nuisance.
   C.   Owner means the owner of record as shown by the most-current tax rolls
of the County Treasurer.
   D.   Unfit for human occupancy means a structure that due to lack of
necessary repairs is considered uninhabitable and is a hazard to the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public.
   E.   Unsecured building means any structure which is not occupied by a legal
or equitable owner therefor by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner and into
which there are one (1) or more unsecured openings such as broken windows,
unlocked windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes
in the roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar
hatchways, or other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an
unauthorized entry into the structure.
(Code 1991, §§ 8-502(8), 8-503(C)(12))
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2; Environment, Ch.
34.
Sec 14-467 Report; Hearing
   A.   Any officer or employee of this City who discovers or receives a report
of a dilapidated building shall report it to the Building Official.
   B.   Upon receiving the report prescribed by subsection (A) of this section
or upon receipt of equivalent information from any reliable source, the
Building Official shall request that the City Manager place upon the agenda of
the City Council for hearing and consideration at any appropriate date of
meeting thereof, such as will permit giving the notices prescribed by statutory
law.
(Code 1991, § 8-501)
Sec 14-468 Condemnation; Notice; Removal; Lien
   A.   The City Council may cause dilapidated buildings within the City limits
to be torn down and removed in accordance with the following procedure:
      1.   At least ten (10) days' notice that a building is to be torn down or
removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the City Council
holds a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be
affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the
property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
Office of the County Treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any
mortgage holder as shown by the records in the Office of the County Clerk to
the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to
any property owner or mortgage older, the City shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if neither the
property owner nor the mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication as defined in 11
O.S. § 1-102. The notice may be published once not less than ten (10) days
prior to any hearing or action by the City pursuant to the provisions of this
section.
      2.   A hearing shall be held by the City Council to determine if the
property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the general public and the community or if the property creates a
fire hazard which is dangerous to other property.
      3.   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property constitutes
a detriment or a hazard and that the property would be benefitted by the
removal of such conditions, the City Council may cause the dilapidated building
to be torn down and removed. The City Council shall fix reasonable dates for
the commencement and completion of the work. The City Clerk shall immediately
file a notice of dilapidation and lien with the County Clerk describing the
property, the findings of the City at the hearing, and stating that the City
claims a lien on the property for the destruction and removal costs and that
such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the
date of filing of the notice. The agents of the City are granted the right of
entry on the property for the performance of the necessary duties as a
governmental function of the City if the work is not performed by the property
owner within dates fixed by the City Council.
      4.   The City Council shall determine the actual cost of the dismantling
and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that may be
necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the buildings,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall forward a
statement of the actual cost attributable to the dismantling and removal of the
buildings and a demand for payment of such costs by mail to the property owner.
In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any mortgage holder at
the address provided for in subsection (A)(1) of this section. At the time of
mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the
City shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. If
the City dismantles or removes any dilapidated buildings, the cost to the
property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and
equipment required for the dismantling and removal of the dilapidated
buildings. If dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings are done on
a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best
bidder.
      5.   When payment is made to the City for costs incurred, the City Clerk
shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual cost of
the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within six (6) months
from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such property,
the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to
the County Treasurer. Once certified to the County Treasurer, payment may only
be made to the County Treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this
section. The costs shall be levied on the property and collected by the County
Treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs
and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of the notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with
the County Clerk. In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a
lien against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with
the County Clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes
and all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to
all other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until
the cost is fully paid. At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall
collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee
shall be deposited to the credit of the general fund of the County. If the
County Treasurer and the City agree that the County Treasurer is unable to
collect the assessment, the City may pursue a civil remedy for collection of
the amount owing and interest thereon including an action in personam against
the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the
property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the City Clerk shall
forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct
discharge of the lien.
   B.   The Council hereby designates the City Manager or his designee to
perform the duties of the Council under this section. The property owner shall
have the right of appeal to the City Council from any order of the City Manager
or his designee. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal
with the City Clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order is
rendered.
(Code 1991, §§ 8-501(B), 8-502(1), (7))
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 22-112.
Sec 14-469 Boarding And Securing Dilapidated Buildings
   A.   Authorization to board and secure. After a building has been declared
dilapidated, as provided in Section
14-468, and before the commencement of the tearing and removal of a dilapidated
building, the City Council may authorize that such a building be boarded and
secured. However, if the dilapidated building is vacant and unfit for human
occupancy, the City Council may authorize the structure to be demolished
pursuant to Section
14-468.
   B.   Cleaning of trash and weeds. The City Council may cause the premises on
which an unsecured building is located to be cleaned of trash and weeds in
accordance with the provisions of 11 O.S. § 22-111.
   C.   Procedure for boarding and securing. The City Council may cause an
unsecured building to be boarded and secured in accordance with the following
procedures:
      1.   Before the City Council orders such action, at least ten (10) days'
notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and secured shall be given
by mail to any property owners and mortgage holders as provided in Section
14-468. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or mortgage
holder, the City shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service,
which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of
the mailee. A copy of the notice shall also be posted on the property to be
affected. However, if neither the property owner nor the mortgage holder can be
located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or
by publication as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102. Such notice shall be published
one (1) time, not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the
City pursuant to the provisions of this section. If the City Council
anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the provisions
of subsection (C)(8) of this section, the notice shall state: that any
subsequent need for boarding and securing the building within a six (6) month
period after the initial boarding and securing of the building pursuant to such
notice may be summarily boarded and secured by the City Council; that the costs
of such boarding and securing shall be assessed against the owner; and that a
lien may be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further
prior notice to the property owner of mortgage holder.
      2.   The owner of the property may give written consent to the City
authorizing the boarding and securing of such unsecured building and to the
payment of any costs incurred thereby. By giving written consent, the owner
waives any right the owner has to a hearing by the City Council.
      3.   If the property owner does not give written consent to such actions,
a hearing may be held by the City Council to determine whether the boarding and
securing of such unsecured building would promote and benefit the public
health, safety, or welfare. Such hearing may be held in conjunction with a
hearing on the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass on the
premises of such unsecured building held pursuant to the provisions of Section
14-468 A.3. In making such determination, the City Council shall apply the
following standard: the City Council may order the boarding and securing of the
unsecured building when the boarding and securing thereof would make such
building less available for transient occupation, decrease a fire hazard
created by such building, or decrease the hazard that such building would
constitute an attractive nuisance to children. Upon making the required
determination, the City Council may order the boarding and securing of the
unsecured building.
      4.   After the City Council orders the boarding and securing of the
unsecured building is the City Clerk shall immediately file a notice of
unsecured building and lien with the County Clerk describing the property,
stating the findings of the City at the hearing at which such building was
determined to be unsecured, and stating that the City claims a lien on the
property for the costs of boarding and securing such building and that such
costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date
of filing the notice.
      5.   Pursuant to the order of the City Council, the agents of the City
are granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the
boarding and securing of such building and for the performance of all necessary
duties as a governmental function of the City.
      6.   After an unsecured building has been boarded and secured, the City
Council shall determine the actual costs of such actions and any other expenses
that may be necessary in conjunction therewith including the cost of the notice
and mailing. The City Clerk shall forward a statement of the actual costs
attributable to the boarding and securing of the unsecured building and a
demand for payment of such costs by mail to any property owners and mortgage
holders as provided in Section
14-468 above. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property
owner or mortgage holder, the City shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee. If the City boards and secures any unsecured
building, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, materials, and equipment required for the performance of such
actions. If such actions are done on a private contract basis, the contract
shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      7.   When payment is made to the City for costs incurred, the City Clerk
shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual costs
of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not made within
thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of the statement to the owner the of
such property, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the costs to the County Treasurer. Once certified to the County Treasurer,
payment may only be made to the County Treasurer except as otherwise provided
for in this section. At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall
collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property and such fee
shall be deposited to the general fund of the County. The costs shall be levied
on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as are other taxes
authorized by law. Until fully paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall
be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the
notice of unsecured building and lien is filed with the County Clerk. In
addition, the costs and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the County Clerk.
The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes
and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all other titles and
liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the costs and
interest are fully paid. If the County Treasurer and the City agree that the
County Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the City may pursue a
civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon by an
action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property. A mineral interest if severed from the surface
owner shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this
section. Upon receiving payment, the City Clerk shall forward to the County
Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
      8.   If the City Council causes a structure within the City limits to be
boarded and secured, any subsequent need for boarding and securing within a six
(6) month period constitutes a public nuisance and may be summarily boarded and
secured without further prior notice to the property owner or the mortgage
holder. At the time of each such summary boarding and securing, the City shall
notify the property owner and the mortgage holder of the boarding and securing
and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may
request an appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) days after the mailing of
the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in subsection (C)
(1) of this section. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of
such boarding and securing shall be determined and collected as provided for in
subsections (C)(6) and (7) of this section.
      9.   The City Council may determine that a building is unsecured and
order that such building be boarded and secured in the manner provided for in
this section even though such building has not been declared by the City
Council to be dilapidated.
   D.   City agent designated; right of appeal. The City hereby designates the
City Manager or his designee to carry out the duties of the Council specified
in this section. The property owner or mortgage holder shall have a right of
appeal to the Council from any order of the City Manager or his designee. Such
appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the clerk within
ten (10) days after the administrative order is rendered.
   E.   Application of section to land zoned agricultural. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to any property zoned and used for agricultural
purposes.
(Code 1991, § 8-503)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 22-112.1.
Sec 14-470 Cleaning Up Premises From Which Buildings Have Been Removed, Torn
Down, Or Demolished By Order Of State Fire Marshal Or Pursuant To This Article
In all cases in which a house or building has been removed before the taking
effect of this article or a house or building is torn down or demolished
pursuant to order of the State Fire Marshal or one (1) of his assistants or the
Sheriff of the County or the Fire Chief as provided by the State law or as
provided in this article and in which any of the following conditions exist,
then the owner or owners of the lot or lots and the person, firm, or
corporation who tore down the house or building shall immediately comply with
the provisions of this article by having all of the following done:
   A.   The premises have not been cleaned up;
   B.   The premises are cleaned up and all lumber, brick, concrete, cement,
plaster, nails, wire, and other material have not been removed;
   C.   The materials removed but the cellar space and excavations have not
been filled;
   D.   A cistern or well has not been filled or safely and securely closed and
all openings to sanitary sewers have not been plugged to meet the requirements
of the City Plumbing Inspector and securely closed; and
   E.   The lot or lots have not been leveled and left entirely free from trash
or the same be not immediately done.
(Code 1991, § 8-504)
Sec 14-471 Preservation Review Of Demolition Activities
The Preservation Review Commission shall have the power to make recommendations
regarding the proposed demolition of designated landmarks or historic
structures, including public demolition procedures initiated through statutory
"nuisance abatement" processes, as well as other public or privately initiated
demolition processes. No permit to demolish all or part of such landmarks or
structures shall be granted by the Building Official nor shall an abatement
order be implemented, except as follows:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, no person, including an agent of the City
in charge of a landmark or historic site improvement in a historic district
shall be granted a permit or permission to demolish, partially or in total,
such property without the written approval of the Preservation Review
Commission;
   B.   Upon the filing of an application with the Preservation Review
Commission, the commission shall determine whether the proposed change would
destroy or adversely affect the historical features of the landmark, historic
site, or historic district property;
   C.   If the Preservation Review Commission determines that the landmark,
historic site, or property within a historic district would be adversely
affected by the proposed change, it may withhold its consent of the granting of
permission or of the permit. The commission shall make its decision within
thirty (30) days after the filing of the application and shall state in writing
the reasons for withholding consent, mailing same to the applicant; and
   D.   If the Preservation Review Commission refuses to grant permission or
approve issuance of a permit for demolition, it shall cooperate with the
applicant to arrive at a mutually agreeable plan to avoid demolition, maintain
historic integrity, and achieve the applicant's objectives. If no plan is greed
upon within six (6) months of the filing of the application, the Building
Official may issue the permit to demolish the subject property or the City
agent may proceed without the approval of the commission.
(Code 1991, § 8-505)
Sec 14-472 Penalty
Any person who shall tear down or begin the tearing down of any house or
building within the City limits of the City without having first procured
permit therefor as herein provided shall be guilty of an offense against the
City and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 8-506)
CHAPTER 18 BUSINESSES
ARTICLE 18-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 18-2 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
Cross reference- Alcoholic beverages, Ch.
6; food service establishments, § 46-1; peddlers and solicitors, Ch.
78; fluids, polluting substances from businesses, § 90-36; taxation, Ch.
98; telecommunications, Ch.
102; utilities, Ch.
110; vehicles for hire, Ch.
118; central business, C-1 district, § 122-281 et seq.; office commercial, C-
2 district, § 122-311 et seq.; general commercial, C-3 district, § 122-341 et
seq.; planned commercial, C-4 district, § 122-371 et seq.; industrial
districts, § 122-401 et seq.; restricted light industrial, I-1 district, § 122-
431 et seq.; light industrial, I-2 district, § 122-456 et seq.; heavy
industrial, I-3 district, § 122-481 et seq.
State Law reference- Municipal license taxes and regulations, 11 O.S. §§ 22-
106, 22- 107; indecent shows, 11. O.S. § 22-110; dangerous amusements, 11 O.S.
§ 22-117; Sabbath observance, 21 O.S. § 907 et seq.; weight and measure
offenses, 21 O.S. §§ 1505, 1551 et seq.; child labor, 40 O.S. 71 et seq.;
municipal license or occupation tax upon coin-operated devices, 68 O.S. § 1511.
ARTICLE 18-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 18-2 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
   
18-26   License Fee Levied On Certain Occupations
   
18-27   Payment Of License Fee; Issuance Of License; Expiration Date
   
18-28   Separate Licenses Required; Fee For More Than One Business
   
18-29   License To Be Displayed
   
18-30   Assignment Or Transfer Of License
   
18-31   Duplicate License
   
18-32   Pool Halls, Billiards; License Required
   
18-33   Use Of False Weights And Measures
   
18-34   Sale Of Merchandise On Vacant Property
   
18-35   Garage Sales; Permits
    
18-36    Farmers Market
   
18-37    Penalties
Sec 18-26 License Fee Levied On Certain Occupations
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Code, a license fee is hereby
levied on every person engaging in, exercising, or pursuing any of the
businesses, professions, trades, occupations, or privileges covered by this
Code for a fee as set by the City Council by ordinance.
   B.   Before issuing a license to a peddler or solicitor, the City Clerk may
require of the applicant any reasonable information which he deems desirable to
protect the public interest and the applicant shall comply with this chapter.
   C.   In order to receive a license under this article, every person, firm,
or corporation regulated pursuant to this section is required to possess a
valid and current State sales tax identification number or proof of exemption
pursuant to 68 O.S., if such person, firm, or corporation is a vendor subject
to collection of sales taxes under Section 98-1 and the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code
(68 O.S. § 1350 et seq.). A copy of this permit shall be provided by the
applicant for a license to the City Clerk prior to issuance of the City
license.
(Code 1991, § 9-101)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 22-107.
Sec 18-27 Payment Of License Fee; Issuance Of License; Expiration Date
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, exercise, or pursue any
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license fee
is levied by Section 18-26 or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision
without paying the license fee and securing and possessing a valid license
therefore. Upon making proper application to the City Clerk, the payment of the
license fee and fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed by
law or ordinance, the City Clerk shall issue a license therefore. Such license
fees shall be credited to the general fund of the City.
   B.   Any license issued under this article shall expire no later than one
(1) year after the date of its issuance or on June 30 of each year.
(Code 1991, § 9-102)
State Law reference- Occupational licenses and fees, 11 O.S. §§ 22-106, 22-107.
Sec 18-28 Separate Licenses Required; Fee For More Than One Business
   A.   Every person who engages in, exercises, or pursues a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license is required at
or from more than one place in the City or who engages in, exercises, or
pursues more than one such business, profession, trade, occupation, or
privilege shall pay the fee and secure a separate license for each such place
or for each such business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege.
   B.   Businesses housed or located on separate premises shall be considered
as separate businesses for the purpose of levying this fee.
(Code 1991, § 9-103)
Sec 18-29 License To Be Displayed
Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his place of business or activity where a
person who has entered the place may readily see it or, if he has no particular
place of business or activity, shall carry the license and shall display it to
any person who requests to see it. In lieu of the manner of displaying such
licenses provided above, when licenses are required for coin-operated music or
amusement devices, vending machines, and similar devices and equipment, the
license may be placed on or attached to such device or equipment in such
position and manner that it will be clearly visible and shall be so placed or
attached if the license so states on its face. It is unlawful to fail or refuse
to display the license as required in this section.
(Code 1991, § 9-104)
Sec 18-30 Assignment Or Transfer Of License
No license in any case may be assigned or transferred.
(Code 1991, § 9-106)
State Law reference- No license to be assigned or transferred, 11 O.S. § 22-
107.
Sec 18-31 Duplicate License
Whenever any license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege has been lost or destroyed without any wrongful
act or connivance by the holder, the City Clerk, on application, shall issue a
duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the duplicate is issued, the
holder shall make and file with the City Clerk an affidavit that the license
has not been transferred, that it has been lost or destroyed without any
wrongful act or connivance by the holder, and that, if believed lost, he has
made diligent search for it and has been unable to find it. The fee for every
duplicate license issued, payable to the City Clerk, shall be set by the City
Council.
(Code 1991, § 9-107)
Sec 18-32 Pool Halls, Billiards; License Required
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate any pool, snooker, or billiard
hall, table, or tables for the purpose of gain or profit, or when a charge is
made for playing the games, without first having procured a license therefore
as provided in this article.
   B.   Such licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon application
therefore in writing, setting forth the name of the owner or operator thereof
and the proposed place of business, and the payment of a license fee set forth
in this article. All such licenses shall be for a period as provided in Section
18-27(B), except as provided in subsection (C) of this section or Section
18-36(B), as applicable.
   C.   A Municipal Judge, upon five (5) days' notice to the person holding
such license, may revoke such license for anyone of the following reasons:
      1.   Drunkenness of the person holding such license or permitting any
intoxicated person to loiter in such place.
      2.   Permitting minors to resort to such place, unless accompanied by a
parent or guardian.
      3.   Violating any of the intoxicating beverage or low-point beer laws of
the State or permitting anyone to violate any of these laws in such place.
(Code 1991, § 9-108)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1103; low-point beer, 37
O.S. § 163.1 et seq.; Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37 O.S. § 502 et
seq.
Sec 18-33 Use Of False Weights And Measures
If any person with intent to defraud uses a false balance, weight, or measure
in the weighing or measuring of anything whatever that is purchased, sold,
bartered, shipped, or delivered for sale or barter or that is pledged or given
in payment, he shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor less than five dollars ($5.00).
(Code 1991, § 9-109)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1551.
Sec 18-34 Sale Of Merchandise On Vacant Property
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, trade, or transfer
any merchandise of any kind on or in any vacant property without the consent of
the owner or person in control of the property.
(Code 1991, § 9-110)
Sec 18-35 Garage Sales; Permits
   A.   For purposes of this section, "garage sales" are defined as those
advertised or conducted on property not zoned for commercial, industrial, or
other business use and on which no State or City sales tax is due or paid.
   B.   Garage sales are limited to three (3) days a week for one (1) garage
sale per quarter per year, except for charitable or nonprofit organizations.
   C.   Before any garage sale is held, a garage sale permit for each sale
shall be obtained from the City Clerk.
   D.   A fee for each permit shall be paid and shall have designated thereon
the days for which it shall be valid.
(Code 1991, § 9-111)
Sec 18-36 Farmers Market
   A.   Definitions.
      1.   Approved Source means a source that is licensed and inspected by a
recognized regulatory authority and whose license is in good standing.
      2.   Farm Food means food made from products grown or raised on a farm,
including vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, nuts, shell eggs, honey or other bee
products, flowers, nursery stock, livestock food products (including meat,
milk, cheese, and other dairy products), and fish.
      3.   Farm Food Producer means a person, including family members and
employees who grow, raise and harvest farm food to the point at which the
products are ready for sale.
      4.   Farmers Market means a designated area where farm food producers and
value-added processors gather on a consistently scheduled basis to sell farm
food and value-added farm products from approved sources directly to the
purchaser, as well as nonfood items, only if those items account for less than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the overall sales at the farmers' market.
      5.   Value-added Processor means a person, including family members and
employees, who processes a raw farm food product into items ready for sale, so
long as a portion of the finished product was grown by the seller or seller's
family members or employees.
      6.   Value-added Farm Product means any product processed by a value-
added processor from farm food, such as baked goods, jams, and jellies.
   B.   Permitted Use.
      1.   Farmers' markets are a permitted use in zoning districts A. through
S. of Chapter 122 (Zoning), Article
122-1, Sec
122-4 subject to the following regulations: Compliance with all laws. All
farmers markets and their vendors must comply with all federal, state, and
local laws and regulations relating to the operation, use, and enjoyment of the
market premises, including but not limited to any requirements to obtain health
permits, licenses, and certificates of insurance.
      2.   Operating hours shall be 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
      3.   The City Manager has the right to issue additional regulations,
guidance, and forms to promote this section.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 23-03 on 1/3/2023
Sec 18-37 Penalties
   A   Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade, or occupation
or exercises any privilege for which a license is required by this article
without a valid license as thereby required, or who shall violate any provision
of this article, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this Code, any license issued by the
City to any person to engage in, exercise, or pursue any business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege may be suspended or revoked by the City Council
after adequate opportunity for a hearing, if the licensee, owner, or operator:
      1.   Is engaging in, exercising, or pursuing the business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege in such a manner that he has created or is
creating a public nuisance as defined by State law or local ordinance; or
      2.   Violates this article; or
      3.   Commits any serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
(Code 1991, §§ 9-105, 9-108(B), 9-112)
CHAPTER 22 CEMETERIES
   
22-1   Definitions
   
22-2   Duties Of Cemetery Superintendent
   
22-3   Cemetery Board
   
22-4   Cemetery Deed Records
   
22-5   Cemetery Graves
   
22-6   Notice For Grave Opening
   
22-7   Regulations For Uniformity Within The Cemetery
   
22-8   Monument Setting Permit Fee
   
22-9   Mausoleums Or Crypts
   
22-10   Residue Of Cremated Body
   
22-11   Resale Price Of Lots
   
22-12   Funerals Prohibited
   
22-13   Time Schedule
   
22-14   Fees
   
22-15   Replat Of Babyland Lots
   
22-16   Penalty
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
State Law reference- Municipal cemeteries, 11 O.S. § 26-101 et seq.
Sec 22-1 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A. Cemetery and City cemetery mean Hillside Cemetery and any other cemetery
that is a part of the City cemetery system.
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec 22-2 Duties Of Cemetery Superintendent
   A. The Cemetery Superintendent shall open and close all graves and keep and
maintain the cemetery in a sanitary and orderly manner at all times and prevent
any unlawful use or injury to any of the properties of the City that are part
of the City cemetery system or individuals owning lots therein.
   B. The Cemetery Superintendent shall make no openings of graves until the
applicant presents a statement from the City Clerk showing ownership of the lot
and the payment of costs for the same.
(Code 1991, § 11-301)
Sec 22-3 Cemetery Board
   A.   A Cemetery Board is created to be composed of five (5) members, all of
whom shall be residents of the City. The members of the Cemetery Board shall be
appointed as provided in Section
2-86 and shall serve without salary.
   B.   A Cemetery Board shall act in an advisory capacity to the City Council
and shall, from time to time, make recommendations for improvements in the
maintenance and operation of the City cemetery system. The Cemetery Board shall
also inquire into complaints and recommend solution of such complaints to the
City Council.
(Code 1991, § 11-302)
Sec 22-4 Cemetery Deed Records
The City Clerk shall keep a plat of the City cemetery showing the lots and
blocks by number. He is hereby authorized to make sales of the lots for the
purpose of interment, upon payment of the fees established for the same
including the number thereof, as laid down in the plat. In case of sale, he
shall draw a deed showing the description of the lot, the price or
consideration, and the name of the purchaser and shall present the same to the
Mayor for his signature. The City Clerk shall countersign the deed, under the
seal of the City. He shall keep a complete record of all lots and blocks in the
cemetery showing whether sold or not, to whom sold and the date of the sale.
(Code 1991, § 11-303)
Sec 22-5 Cemetery Graves
When any person desires any grave to be opened, he shall apply to the City
Clerk and deposit the fee therefore. The City Clerk shall notify the Cemetery
Superintendent to open the grave, naming the lot and block to be used. All
closings shall be done by the Cemetery Superintendent or under his supervision.
A minimum of a concrete ground box shall be required.
(Code 1991, § 11-304)
Sec 22-6 Notice For Grave Opening
Any person desiring that a grave be opened shall give at least twenty-four (24)
hours' notice to the Cemetery Superintendent. Exceptions may be made in case of
emergency.
(Code 1991, § 11-305)
Sec 22-7 Regulations For Uniformity Within The Cemetery
   A.   The following provisions shall regulate uniformity with the City's
cemetery system:
      1.   Headstones shall be in line at heads of grate.
      2.   Footstones shall be in line and flush with the ground so as not to
obstruct mowers.
      3.   There shall be no curbing.
      4.   There shall no fencing.
      5.   There shall be no trees or shrubs planted.
   B.   The Cemetery Superintendent will enforce and maintain uniformity.
(Code 1991, § 11-307; Ord. No. 91-2108, § 1, 6-3-1991)
Sec 22-8 Monument Setting Permit Fee
   A.   A fee will be collected for the issuance of a permit to set a monument
in the City's Hillside Cemetery.
   B.   The City Clerk will collect the fee to set the monument and issue the
permit.
   C.   All monuments shall be set with a four (4) inch thick, precast concrete
base that is two (2) feet wide and, as a minimum, the same length as the
monument being set. The length of the base shall not exceed four (4) feet per
grave space. If an apron is desired at the ends of the monument, it shall
neither extend more than six (6) inches from each end nor exceed the four (4)
foot overall length requirement. All aprons extending beyond the monument shall
be at ground level.
   D. Monuments and/or markers. All monuments and/or grave markers to be placed
on any lot in the Hillside Cemetery shall be professionally manufactured and
installed per City installation specifications. Materials are limited to
professional granite, marble, or bronze. This does not include the footing,
which may be concrete or other similar material.
(Code 1991, § 11-310; Ord. No. 94-08, § 1, 8-1-1994; Ord. No. 02-05, § 1, 3-4-
2002)
Editor's note- Ord. No. 02-05, § 1, adopted March 4, 2002, did not specify
manner of inclusion; hence, inclusion as § 22-8(D) is at the discretion of the
editor.
Sec 22-9 Mausoleums Or Crypts
No mausoleums or aboveground crypts shall ever be erected or constructed within
the confines of City cemeteries.
(Code 1991, § 11-311; Ord. No. 98-01, § 1(11-311), 5-4-1998)
Sec 22-10 Residue Of Cremated Body
Burial of residues of a cremated body requires a permit issued from the City to
assure proper legal description of grave space. Permit fees are to be
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Code 1991, § 11-312; Ord. No. 98-10, § 2(11-312), 5-4-1998; Ord. No. 00-09, §§
1, 2, 5-1-2000)
Sec 22-11 Resale Price Of Lots
All lots bought prior to May 6, 1991, if resold to the City, shall be resold to
the City at the price paid originally.
(Code 1991, § 11-313)
Sec 22-12 Funerals Prohibited
Funerals are disallowed and prohibited in the City's Hillside Cemetery on
Sundays, on Memorial Day, on Thanksgiving Day, on Christmas Day, on New Year's
Day, and after 12:00 noon on the Saturday before Memorial Day.
(Code 1991, § 11-314; Ord. No. 98-10, § 3(11-314), 5-4-1998)
Sec 22-13 Time Schedule
Regular business hours for the Hillside Cemetery shall be 8:00 a.m. to 4:00
p.m., Monday through Friday. Courtesy hours for Saturdays and holidays shall be
from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon. An overtime fee will be incurred for any service
continuing past the hours stated in this section.
(Ord. No. 98-10, § 4, 5-4-1998; Ord. No. 00-09, §§ 1, 4, 5-1-2000; Ord. No. 01-
09, § 1, 8-6-2001)
Sec 22-14 Fees
The City Council shall establish fees, charges, assessments, etc., for any and
all City cemeteries by appropriately adopted resolutions.
(Ord. No. 98-10, § 5, 5-4-1998)
Sec 22-15 Replat Of Babyland Lots
Babyland section lots shall be replatted to three (3) lots for each twenty (20)
feet. Surface stones only will be permitted with the City to set the footing.
(Ord. No. 01-09, § 2, 8-6-2001)
Sec 22-16 Penalty
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 26-105.
CHAPTER 26 CIVIL EMERGENCIES
ARTICLE 26-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 26-2 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Cross reference- Administration, Ch.
2; fire prevention and protection, Ch.
38; law enforcement, Ch.
54.
State Law reference- Oklahoma Riot Control and Prevention Act, 21 O.S. § 1321.1
et seq.; ordinances authorized, 21 O.S. § 1321.9; emergency management and
disaster relief, 63 O.S. § 663 et seq.; local emergency management
organizations, 63 O.S. § 683.11 et seq.; Emergency Interim Executive and
Judicial Succession Act, 63 O.S. § 685.1 et seq.; Emergency Management
Emergency Interim Legislative Succession Act, 63 O.S. § 686.1 et seq.;
Emergency Management Emergency Interim Relocation Act, 63 O.S. § 687.1 et seq.
ARTICLE 26-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 26-2 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   
26-26   Definitions
   
26-27   Purpose; Duty Of Emergency Management Organization
   
26-28   Office Of Emergency Management Created; Director
   
26-29   Director Of Emergency Management; Powers And Duties
   
26-30   Members Of Organization; Compensation; Injuries
   
26-31   Emergency Powers; Duties Of Director
   
26-32   Emergency [Management] Operations Center
Sec 26-26 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of
all emergency functions, other than functions for which the military services
are primarily responsible, by organized and trained volunteer civilian persons
who will extend existent governmental functions and provide other necessary
nongovernmental functions to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or disasters
caused by fire, flood, tornado, earthquake, or other causes developing to such
an extent as to cause an extreme emergency situation to arise which by
declaration of the governor jeopardizes the welfare of the citizens of this
City. These emergency functions include, but are not limited to, firefighting
services; police services; medical and health services; rescue, engineering,
and outdoor warning devices; communications; radiological, chemical, and other
special weapons of defense; evacuations of persons from stricken areas;
emergency welfare services; civilian war aid; emergency transportation;
existing or properly assigned functions of plant protection; integration of
industrial emergency plans into emergency management plans; assistance to
private and public utility companies in the temporary restoration of public
utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together
with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and
carrying out of the emergency functions.
   B.   Emergency means any occasion or instance for which, in the
determination of the President of the United States or the Governor of the
State of Oklahoma, federal or State assistance is needed to supplement State
and local efforts and capabilities to save lives and to protect property and
public health and safety or to lessen or avert threat of a catastrophe in any
part of the City.
(Code 1991, §§ 13-401, 13-405)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 63 O.S. § 683.3.
Sec 26-27 Purpose; Duty Of Emergency Management Organization
The purpose of this article is to create an Emergency Management Organization
for the City to be prepared for and to function in the event of emergencies.
The duty of such Emergency Management Organization shall be the performance of
emergency management functions within the territorial limits of the City and
outside such territorial limits as may be required by 63 O.S. § 683.1 et seq.
(Code 1991, § 13-401)
Sec 26-28 Office Of Emergency Management Created; Director
There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of the
City an Office of Emergency Management, which shall consist of:
   A.   A Director of Emergency Management who shall be appointed by the City
Manager and serve at his pleasure;
   B.   A Emergency Management Advisory Committee. This committee shall consist
of the City Manager as chairman and five (5) members appointed by the City
Manager and serving at his pleasure. The committee shall select from its
members a vice-chairman and secretary. The committee shall function in an
advisory capacity on all matters pertaining to emergency management. The
committee shall hold such meetings as are directed by the City Manager; and
   C.   Such other volunteer emergency management advisory committees as may be
created by the director for the evaluation of technical, professional, or other
phases of the work of the Office of Emergency Management and which may provide
advisory assistance on any matters pertaining to the City's emergency
management.
(Code 1991, § 13-402)
Cross reference- Officers and employees, §
2-56 et seq.
Sec 26-29 Director Of Emergency Management; Powers And Duties
The Director of Emergency Management shall be the executive head of the Office
of Emergency Management and shall be responsible to the City Manager for
carrying out the emergency management program of the City. He shall have all
necessary power and authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint
and designate the chairman or chief officer of such bodies as may be necessary
to perfect such an organization. He shall coordinate the activities of all
organizations for emergency management within the City and shall maintain
liaison with and cooperate with emergency management agencies of other
governmental units, both within and without the State, including the State and
federal governments. He shall have such additional authority, duties, and
responsibilities as may be authorized by this article or by other law. The
director shall have general direction and control of the Office of Emergency
Management. He is further authorized to formulate written plans and gather
information and keep written records thereof to govern the functions of the
Emergency Management Organization.
(Code 1991, § 13-403)
Sec 26-30 Members Of Organization; Compensation; Injuries
All members of the Emergency Management Organization created pursuant to this
article shall serve without compensation, and except as otherwise provided in
51 O.S. § 151 et seq., the City shall not be liable for any personal injury
received by any member of such organization while acting in the line of duty.
(Code 1991, § 13-404)
Sec 26-31 Emergency Powers; Duties Of Director
In the event of any emergency, the Director of Emergency Management, after due
authorization from the City Manager, shall have the power and authority to
enforce all rules and regulations relating to emergency management and, if
necessary, take control of transportation, communications, stocks of fuel,
food, clothing, medicine, and public utilities for the purpose of protecting
the civilian population. He shall cooperate in every way with the activities of
other governmental agencies or Emergency Management Organizations and, if
required by the City Manager, shall have control over any and all funds
allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in
the City.
(Code 1991, § 13-405(A))
Sec 26-32 Emergency [Management] Operations Center
An Emergency Management Emergency Operations center is hereby established for
the City to operate in conformance with any rules or regulations of the City
Council.
(Code 1991, § 13-406)
CHAPTER 30 COURTS
ARTICLE 30-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 30-2 MUNICIPAL COURT
Charter reference- Judicial department, art. V.
Cross reference- Administration, Ch.
2; law enforcement, Ch.
54; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, Ch.
70; traffic and vehicles, Ch.
106.
State Law reference- Enforcement and penalties for violation of municipal
ordinances, 11 O.S. § 14-111; municipal courts, 11 O.S. § 27-101 et seq.;
additional grounds for removal of judicial officer, 20 O.S. § 1404; contempts
of court, 21 O.S. § 565 et seq.; criminal procedure, 22 O.S.; warrant of
arrest, 22 O.S. § 171 et seq.; removal of officers, 22 O.S. § 1181 et seq.;
ouster by action, 51 O.S. § 91 et seq.
State Constitution reference- Officers, personal attention to duties,
intoxication, OK Const. Art. 2 § 11; jurisdiction of municipal courts, OK
Const. Art. 7 § 1; removal of judges from office, OK Const. Art. 7-A § 1.
ARTICLE 30-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 30-2 MUNICIPAL COURT
DIVISION 30-2-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 30-2-2 JUDGES
DIVISION 30-2-3 CLERK
DIVISION 30-2-4 PROCEDURES
DIVISION 30-2-5 DISPOSITION OF CASES; COSTS
DIVISION 30-2-1 GENERALLY
   
30-26   Definitions
   
30-27   Purpose Of Article; Conflicts Sec 30-28 Jurisdiction
   
30-29   Traffic Violations Bureau
   
30-30   Prosecuting Attorney; Duties; Conflict Of Interest
Sec 30-26 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Clerk means the City Clerk and any deputy or member of the office staff
of the
clerk while performing duties of the Court Clerk's office.
   B.   Court means the Municipal Court of the City.
   C.   Judge means the Municipal Judge and any acting Municipal Judge or
alternate Municipal Judge, as provided for by the statutes of this State and
this article.
   D.   This judicial district means the district court judicial district of
this State wherein the government of this City is situated.
(Code 1991, §§ 6-102(1)-(3), (5))
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec 30-27 Purpose Of Article; Conflicts
This article shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal Court
of the City as put into operation by resolution duly passed on September 25,
1979, and filed in accordance with law as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 and
27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this article and
the provisions of any other ordinance provision of this City, the provisions of
this article shall control.
(Code 1991, § 6-101)
Sec 30-28 Jurisdiction
The Municipal Court shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
determine all offenses against the Charter and ordinances of the City,
including any prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law.
(Code 1991, § 6-103)
Sec 30-29 Traffic Violations Bureau
   A.   A Traffic Violations Bureau is established as a division of the Office
of the Clerk of the Court to be administered by the clerk or by subordinates
designated by him for that purpose. Persons who are cited for violation of one
(1) of the traffic regulatory ordinances of this City may elect to pay a fine
in the Traffic Violations Bureau according to the schedule of fines to be
determined by the City Council by motion or resolution.
   B.   The court may adopt rules to carry into effect this section. Payment of
a fine under this section shall constitute a final determination of cause
against the defendant. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this
section fails to do so, prosecution shall proceed under the provisions of this
article.
(Code 1991, § 6-124)
Sec 30-30 Prosecuting Attorney; Duties; Conflict Of Interest
The Attorney for the City, or his duly designated assistant, may be prosecuting
officer of the court. He may also prosecute all alleged violations of the
ordinances of the City. He shall be authorized, in his discretion, to prosecute
and resist appeals and proceedings in error and review from this court to any
other court of the State, and to represent the City in all proceedings arising
out of matters in this court.
(Code 1991, § 6-115)
DIVISION 30-2-2 JUDGES
   
30-56   Qualifications
   
30-57   Alternate Judges
   
30-58   Acting Judge
   
30-59   Appointment
   
30-60   Compensation
   
30-61   Term
   
30-62   Rules Of Court
   
30-63   Enforcement Of Orders, Rules, And Judgments
   
30-64   Disqualification Of Judge
   
30-65   Vacancy In Office Of Judge
Sec 30-56 Qualifications
There shall be one or more Municipal Judges. The judges need not be attorneys
licensed to practice law in the State. A judge who is a licensed attorney may
engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he shall not accept
employment inconsistent with his duties as judge or arising out of facts which
give rise to or are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the court,
pending therein, or which might become the subject of proceedings therein.
Judges shall meet the qualifications set by State law.
(Code 1991, § 6-104)
Cross reference- Officers and employees, §
2-56 et seq.
Sec 30-57 Alternate Judges
There may be appointed, for each judge of the court, an alternate judge
possessed of the same qualifications as the judge. His appointment shall be for
the same term and made in the same manner as the judge. He shall sit as acting
judge of the court in any case if the judge is absent from the court, unable to
act as judge, or disqualified from acting as judge in the case.
(Code 1991, § 6-106)
Sec 30-58 Acting Judge
If at any time there is no judge, duly appointed and qualified, available to
sit as judge, the Mayor may appoint some person possessing the qualifications
required by this article for a judge, who shall preside as acting judge over
the court in the disposition of pending matters until such time as a judge
shall be available.
(Code 1991, § 6-107)
Sec 30-59 Appointment
The Council shall appoint the Municipal Judges.
(Code 1991, § 6-108)
Sec 30-60 Compensation
   A.   A Municipal Judge shall receive a salary prescribed by the Council.
   B.   An alternate or acting judge shall be paid an amount not to exceed the
amount currently established for the Municipal Judge, or ten dollars ($10.00)
per day of duty. Any amount paid to the alternate or acting judge shall, at the
discretion of the City Council, be deducted from the salary which would have
been due to the judge who failed or was unable to perform his duties as judge.
(Code 1991, § 6-109)
Sec 30-61 Term
The official term of the judges shall be two (2) years, expiring on the January
31 in each odd numbered year. Each judge, unless sooner removed, shall serve
until his successor is appointed and qualified.
(Code 1991, § 6-105)
Sec 30-62 Rules Of Court
The Municipal Judges may prescribe rules consistent with the laws of the State
and with the ordinances of this City for the proper conduct of the business of
the court.
(Code 1991, § 6-117)
Sec 30-63 Enforcement Of Orders, Rules, And Judgments
Obedience to the orders, rules, and judgments made by a Municipal Judge or by
the court may be enforced by a Municipal Judge, who may fine or imprison for
contempt committed as to him while holding court or committed against process
issued by him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts
of this State.
(Code 1991, § 6-118)
Sec 30-64 Disqualification Of Judge
In prosecutions before the court no change of venue shall be allowed, but the
judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions, and procedures
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge appointed as provided in this
article.
(Code 1991, § 6-112)
Sec 30-65 Vacancy In Office Of Judge
A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
   A.   Dies;
   B.   Resigns;
   C.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
   D.   Is removed and the removal proceedings have been affirmed finally in
judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the Council shall
appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as an
original appointment is made.
DIVISION 30-2-3 CLERK
   
30-91   Duties
   
30-92   Bond
Sec 30-91 Duties
The City Clerk or a deputy designated by the City Clerk shall be ex officio
clerk of the court. The clerk shall:
   A.   Assist the Municipal Judges in recording the proceedings of the court,
preparation of writs, processes, or other papers;
   B.   Administer oaths required in judicial or other proceedings before the
court;
   C.   Be responsible for the entry of all pleadings, processes, and
proceedings in the dockets of the court;
   D.   Receive and give receipt for and disburse or deliver to the City
treasurer all fines, forfeitures, fees, deposits, and sums of money properly
payable to the Municipal Court. Such funds and sums of money while in the
custody of the clerk shall be deposited and disbursed upon vouchers as directed
by the City Council; and
   E.   Perform such other clerical duties in relation to the proceedings of
the court as the Municipal Judges shall direct.
All money paid to the City Clerk shall be placed in the general fund of the
City, or in such other funds as the City Council may direct, and it shall be
used in the operation of the City government in accordance with budgetary
arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed.
(Code 1991, § 6-114)
Cross reference- Officers and employees, §
2-56 et seq.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 27-109.
Sec 30-92 Bond
The clerk of the court shall give bond, in the form provided by 11 O.S. § 27-
111, in a sum to be determined by the City Council. When executed, the bond
shall be submitted to the City Council for approval. When approved, it shall be
filed in the office of the City Clerk and retained in the City archives.
(Code 1991, § 6-116)
DIVISION 30-2-4 PROCEDURES
   
30-116   Written Complaints To Prosecute Ordinance Violations
   
30-117   Arrests; Citation; Bail
   
30-118   Release On Personal Recognizance; Arraignment; Plea; Failure To Plead
Or Appear
   
30-119   Bail; Bond; Schedule
   
30-120   Failure To Appear According To Terms Of Bond; Forfeiture
   
30-121   Writs; Processes; Chief Of Police
   
30-122   Citation To Appear; Issuance; Summons; Failure To Appear
   
30-123   Form Of Arrest Warrant
   
30-124   Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant, Failure To Appear
   
30-125   Trials And Judgments
   
30-126   Jury Trials; Qualifications Of Jurors
   
30-127   Witness Fees
   
30-128   Sentencing
Sec 30-116 Written Complaints To Prosecute Ordinance Violations
All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of this City shall be styled "The
City of Purcell, Oklahoma vs. (naming the person or persons charged)." Except
as provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a
written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and
setting forth concisely the offense charged.
(Code 1991, § 6-119)
Sec 30-117 Arrests; Citation; Bail
   A.   If a resident of this City is arrested by a law enforcement officer for
the violation of any traffic ordinance for which 11 O.S. § 27-117.1 does not
apply or is arrested for the violation of a non-traffic ordinance, the officer
shall immediately release such person if the person acknowledges receipt of a
citation by signing it. Provided, however, the arresting officer need not
release such person if it reasonably appears to the officer that the person may
cause injury to himself or others or damage to property if released, that the
person will not appear in response to the citation, or the person is arrested
for an offense against a person or property. If the person fails to appear in
response to the citation, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest and his
appearance shall be compelled.
   B.   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign a
citation as provided for in subsection (A) of this section, he shall be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment or shall be released on
personal recognizance. The City may prescribe a fine for up to the maximum
amount authorized by courts not of record for failure of a person to have a
valid driver's license when charged with a traffic violation.
   C.   If a nonresident of this City is arrested by a law enforcement officer
for a violation of any ordinance for which 11 O.S. § 27-117.1 does not apply,
the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to bail either before or after
arraignment.
   D.   If the alleged offense is a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator is not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in this
section, with such variation as the circumstances require, and the operator of
the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the citation as if
it had been issued to him personally under this section.
(Code 1991, § 6-120)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 27-117; arrest for
misdemeanor traffic violation other than parking or standing, bail, 11 O.S. §
27-117.1.
Sec 30-118 Release On Personal Recognizance; Arraignment; Plea; Failure To
Plead Or Appear
   A.   Conditions for release. In addition to other provisions of law for
posting bail, any person, whether a resident of this State or a nonresident,
who is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation
of a State traffic law or City traffic ordinance shall be released by the
arresting officer upon personal recognizance if:
      1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this State or by another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a participant in the Nonresident Violator Compact (47 O.S. §
789 et seq.), or any party jurisdiction of the Nonresident Violator Compact;
      2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      3.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires
immediate medical treatment as determined by a treating physician; and
      4.   The violation does not constitute:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   Negligent homicide;
         c.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires immediate
medical treatment as determined by a treating physician;
         d.   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         e.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver license or while the driving privilege and driver license is under
suspension, revocation, denial or cancellation;
         f.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         g.   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections (A)(4)(a) through (f) of this section;
         h.   An overweight violation or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         i.   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   B.   Duty of arresting officer. If the arrested person is eligible for
release on personal recognizance as provided for in subsection (A) of this
section, then the arresting officer shall:
      1.   Designate the traffic charge;
      2.   Record information from the arrested person's driver license on the
citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver license, driver license number, issuing state, and
expiration date;
      3.   Record the motor vehicle make, model, and tag information;
      4.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
      5.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation. The arresting officer shall then release the
person upon personal recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The
citation shall contain a written notice to the arrested person that release
upon personal recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for
arraignment is conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment
shall result in the suspension of the arrested person's driving privilege and
driver license in this State or in the nonresident's home state pursuant to the
Nonresident Violator Compact (47 O.S. § 789 et seq.).
   C.   Election of plea; payment of fines and costs. A defendant released upon
personal recognizance may elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to
the violation charged at any time before the defendant is required to appear
for arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of the citation furnished
to the defendant or on a legible copy thereof, together with the date of the
plea and signature. The defendant shall be responsible for assuring full
payment of the fine and costs to the appropriate Court Clerk. Payment of the
fine and costs may be made by personal, cashier's, traveler's, certified or
guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial money order, or other form of
payment approved by the court in an amount prescribed as bail for the offense.
Provided, however, the defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail. If
the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere as provided for
in this subsection, such plea shall be accepted by the court and the amount of
the fine and costs shall be:
      1.   As prescribed in 22 O.S. § 1115.3 as bail for the violation;
      2.   In case of a City violation, as prescribed by City ordinance for the
violation charged; or
      3.   In the absence of such law or ordinance, then as prescribed by the
court.
   D.   Warrant for arrest.
      1.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection (C) of this section,
the defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a
warrant for the arrest of the defendant and the Municipal or District Court
Clerk, within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation
was issued by the arresting officer, shall notify the department of public
safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
Additionally, the Court Clerk shall request the State Department of Public
Safety to either suspend the defendant's driving privilege and driver's license
to operate a motor vehicle in this State or to notify the defendant's home
state and request suspension of the defendant's driving privilege and driver
license in accordance with the provisions of the Nonresident Violator Compact
(47 O.S. § 789 et seq.). Such notice and request shall be on a form approved or
furnished by the State Department of Public Safety.
      2.   The Court Clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided for in subsection (D)(1) of this section if, with respect to such
charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or, if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar clays or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   E.   Maintenance of driver privilege or license suspension; proof of
settlement of case. The Municipal or District Court Clerk shall maintain a
record of each request for driving privilege and driver license suspension
submitted to the State Department of Public Safety pursuant to the provisions
of this section. When the court or Court Clerk receives appropriate bail or
payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes other arrangements
with the defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the Court Clerk shall furnish
proof thereof to such defendant, if the defendant personally appears, or shall
mail such proof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the defendant at the
address noted on the citation or at such other address as is furnished by the
defendant. Additionally, the court or Court Clerk shall notify the home
jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the citation, if such jurisdiction
is a member of the Nonresident Violator Compact (47 O.S. § 789 et seq.) and
shall, in all other cases, notify the department of the resolution of the case.
The form of proof and the procedures for notification shall be approved by the
department of public safety. Provided, however, the court or Court Clerk's
failure to furnish such proof or notice in the manner provided for in this
subsection shall in no event create any civil liability upon the court, the
Court Clerk, the State or any political subdivision thereof, or any State
department or agency or any employee thereof but duplicate proof shall be
furnished to the person entitled thereto upon request.
   F.   Procedures. Procedures for arraignment, continuances and scheduling,
timely appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting bail, payment
of fines and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for suspension of
driver's license shall be as required in 22 O.S. §§ 1115.1-1115.5.
(Code 1991, § 6-121)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 22 O.S. § 1115.1.
Sec 30-119 Bail; Bond; Schedule
   A.   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation
or summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant may be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance in
an amount and upon conditions fixed by this article or by a Municipal Judge,
who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail and
release of the defendant. In case of arrests made at night or under other
conditions of emergency or when a Municipal Judge is not available, the rules
shall authorize the Chief of Police, or his designated representative, to
accept a temporary cash bond of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than the maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for the offense
charged. A Municipal Judge or Chief of Police is authorized, subject to
conditions as may be prescribed by the judge, to release a resident of the City
on personal recognizance.
   B.   The City's bail bond schedule setting forth specific offenses and bail
bond amounts and procedures therefor, as amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted and incorporated in this article by reference.
(Code 1991, § 6-122)
Sec 30-120 Failure To Appear According To Terms Of Bond; Forfeiture
   A.   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according to
the terms or conditions of a bond given by a bail bondsman as defined in 59
O.S. § 1301, either for hearing, arraignment, trial, or judgment, or upon any
other occasion when the presence of the defendant in court or before the judge
may be lawfully required:
      1.   The court shall perform the procedures set forth in 59 O.S. § 1332
whereby the Municipal Court Clerk shall issue the required notices; or
         a.   The Municipal Judge shall issue an order declaring the bond to be
forfeited on the day the defendant failed to appear and stating the reasons
therefor; and
         b.   Within five (5) days of the order of forfeiture, the Municipal
Court Clerk shall file a certified copy of the order with the district court in
County. The District Court Clerk treat the certified order of forfeiture as a
foreign judgment and proceed in accordance with the provisions of 59 O.S. §
1332. A surety shall have all remedies available under the provisions of 22
O.S. § 1108 and 59 O.S. §§ 1301-1340.
   B.   Court costs shall be collectible from the proceeds of a forfeited bond.
   C.   A prosecution in a court provided for herein shall be a bar to
prosecution in another court for the same or a lesser included offense.
(Code 1991, § 6-123)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 27-118.
Sec 30-121 Writs; Processes; Chief Of Police
All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his official title,
to the Chief of Police of the City, who shall be the Marshal of the Court.
(Code 1991, § 6-113)
Sec 30-122 Citation To Appear; Issuance; Summons; Failure To Appear
   A.   A law enforcement officer who has arrested a person on a misdemeanor
charge or a violation of a City ordinance without a warrant may a citation to
such person to appear in court.
   B.   In issuing a citation hereunder the officer shall proceed as follows:
      1.   He shall prepare a written citation to appear in court, containing
the name
and address of the cited person and the offense charged, and stating when the
person shall appear in court. Unless the person requests an earlier date, the
time specified in the citation to appear shall be at least five (5) days after
the issuance of the citation.
      2.   One copy of the citation to appear shall be delivered to the person
cited and such person shall sign a duplicate written citation which shall be
retained by the officer.
      3.   The officer shall thereupon release the cited person from any
custody.
      4.   As soon as practicable, the officer shall file one copy of the
citation with the court specified therein and shall deliver one (1) copy to the
prosecuting attorney.
   C.   In any case in which the judicial officer finds sufficient grounds for
issuing a warrant, he may issue a summons commanding the defendant to appear in
lieu of a warrant.
   D.   If a person summoned fails to appear in response to the summons, a
warrant for his arrest shall issue, and any person who willfully fails to
appear in response to a summons is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1991, § 6-125)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 22 O.S. § 209.
Sec 30-123 Form Of Arrest Warrant
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the City, upon the
filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement the attorney of this City or
by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest in substantially the
following form:
"City of Purcell, The State of Oklahoma To the Chief of Police of the Municipal
Court of Purcell, Oklahoma: Complaint upon oath having been this day made
before me that the offense of (designating it) has been committed and accusing
C.D. thereof, you are therefore commanded forthwith to arrest the above named
C.D. and bring him before me at the municipal courtroom.
Dated at Purcell, Oklahoma, this    day of    , 20   .
/s/
Municipal Judge"
   B.   It is the duty of the Chief of Police, personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the police force of this City, or through any other
person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as
possible.
(Code 1991, § 6-126)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 22 O.S. § 172.
Sec 30-124 Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant, Failure To Appear
   A.   Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. A Municipal Judge or the City Attorney shall read the complaint to
the defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by
jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether
he pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may
proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the defendant pleads not guilty and the case is not for jury
trial, the court may proceed to try the case or may set it for hearing at a
later date.
   B.   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section by failing
to appear in the Municipal Court shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof shall be punishable as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 6-127)
Sec 30-125 Trials And Judgments
   A.   Postponement. Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   B.   Personal presence or representation. The defendant must be present in
person at the trial or be represented by counsel if permitted by the judge.
   C.   Applicable procedures. In all trials, as to matters not covered in this
article, or by the statutes relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly
promulgated by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective.
   D.   Judgment and penalty. If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted
after the court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the
limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly.
   E.   Judgment rendered immediately. At the close of trial, judgment must be
rendered immediately by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his
docket.
   F.   Discharge upon acquittal. If judgment is of acquittal, and the
defendant is not to be detained for any other legal cause, he must be
discharged at once.
   G.   Enforcement of payment on defendants of means. If a defendant who is
financially able refuses or neglects to pay a fine or court costs or both,
payment may be enforced:
      1.   By imprisonment in the McClain County Jail until same shall be
satisfied at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per day; and
      2.   In addition to the sum set forth in subsection of this section, if
the court requires the defendant to pay the City's costs of his incarceration
after the court's determination that such payment would not impose a manifest
hardship on the defendant and would not require the loss of property of the
defendant that is needed for the maintenance and support of his immediate
family, the defendant shall pay such costs of twenty-seven dollars ($27.00) per
day, which is subject to change, and when changed, the amount paid by a
defendant shall change in accordance therewith; or
      3.   In the same manner as in subsection (H) of this section for a
defendant who is without means to make such payment.
   H.   Enforcement of payment on defendants without means. If the defendant is
without means to pay the fine or costs, the Municipal Judge may direct the
total amount due to be entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to
the district court in this County, where it shall be entered upon the district
court judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a district
court judgment. Thereupon the same remedies shall be available for the
enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other judgment creditor.
   I.   Determination of financial ability. The determination of whether or not
a person is financially able to pay a fine or court costs shall be made by the
Municipal Judge and may be made at any time before or after judgment and
sentence is imposed.
(Code 1991, § 6-12B; Ord. No. 97-12, §§ 1-3, 1-5-1997)
Sec 30-126 Jury Trials; Qualifications Of Jurors
   A.   In all prosecutions in the Municipal Court for any offense for which
the City, with the concurrence of the court, seeks imposition of a fine of more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00), excluding court costs, or imprisonment, or
both such fine and imprisonment, a jury trial shall be had unless waived by the
defendant and the City. In prosecutions for all other offenses, or in cases
wherein a jury trial is waived by the defendant and the City, trial shall be to
the court. A jury in the Municipal Court shall consist of six (6) jurors, five
(5) of whom may return verdict. Jurors shall be good and lawful men or women,
citizens of the County in which the court sits, having the qualifications of
jurors in the district court.
   B.   At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked whether he demands or
waives trial by jury. His election shall be recorded in the minutes of the
arraignment and entered on the docket of the court respecting proceedings in
the case.
   C.   An election waiving jury trial made at arraignment may be changed by
the defendant at any time prior to the day for which trial by the court is set.
An election demanding jury trial may be changed at any time prior to the
commencement of proceedings to impanel the jury for the trial, but if that
change occurs after the case has been set for jury trial, it may not thereafter
be re- changed so as again to demand trial by jury.
(Code 1991, § 6-129; Ord. No. 99-32, § 1, 11-1-1999; Ord. No. 11-01, 1-3-2011)
State Law reference- Fine over $200.00 or imprisonment to be determined by jury
trial, 11 O.S. § 27-119.
Sec 30-127 Witness Fees
Witnesses in any proceeding in the court other than the police officers or
peace officers shall be entitled to a fee as set by the Council per each day of
attendance, plus mileage for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in
going to and returning from the place of attendance if their residence is
outside the limits of the City. However, no witness shall receive fees or
mileage in more than one (1) case for the same period of time or the same
travel. A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the clerk a
sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one (1) day of attendance for each
witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an indigent
defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
   A.   The name of no more than three (3) witnesses;
   B.   That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to provide the
fees and mileage allowed by law;
   C.   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
   D.   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper defense.
The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the City.
(Code 1991, § 6-130)
Sec 30-128 Sentencing
A Municipal Judge who is licensed to practice law in this State imposing a
judgment and sentence, at his discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce,
suspend, or defer the imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to
authorize probation for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of
sentence under such terms or conditions as the judge may specify. Procedures
relating to suspension of the judgment or costs or both shall be as provided in
11 O.S. § 27-123. Upon completion of the terms of probation, the defendant
shall be discharged without a court judgment of guilt, and the verdict,
judgment of guilty, or plea of guilty shall be expunged from the record and the
charge dismissed with prejudice to any further action. Upon a finding of the
court that the conditions of probation have been violated, the Municipal Judge
may enter a judgment of guilty. The judge may continue or delay imposing a
judgment and sentence for a period of time not to exceed six (6) months from
the date of sentence. At the expiration of such period of time the judge may
allow the City Attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense. If a deferred
sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of not to exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00) may be imposed as costs in the case.
(Code 1991, § 6-131(B); Ord. No. 99-32, § 2, 11-1-1999)
DIVISION 30-2-5 DISPOSITION OF CASES; COSTS
   
30-156   Failure To Appear; Court Costs; Penalty
   
30-157   Fines And Costs; Warrants
   
30-158   Penalties And Fees In Addition To Fines
Sec 30-156 Failure To Appear; Court Costs; Penalty
Any person who files a complaint in the Municipal Court against another person
or persons and fails to appear to prosecute or testify on the complaint so
filed or moves to dismiss the same without court approval is liable for and
shall be assessed and pay all court costs incurred in the filing of the
complaint. Any defendant failing to appear as required shall constitute a
separate offense punishable as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 6-134)
Sec 30-157 Fines And Costs; Warrants
   A.   If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court shall tax
the costs to the defendant, which shall be the maximum allowed by State law,
plus the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses, but the total amount of fine
may not exceed the amount set out in Section 1-12 of this Code.
   B.   A warrant shall be issued for any unpaid citation or complaint. The
defendant who has been issued a warrant shall pay a fee over and above the fine
and costs in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for the warrant.
(Code 1991, § 6-133)
Sec 30-158 Penalties And Fees In Addition To Fines
In addition to any fines and court costs assessed, the court shall collect any
penalty assessments required by State statutes.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 20 O.S. §§ 1313.2-1313.6.
CHAPTER 34 ENVIRONMENT
ARTICLE 34-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 34-2 NOISE
ARTICLE 34-3 NUISANCES
Cross reference- Animals, Ch.
10; wild, exotic, or dangerous animals, § 10-34; rabies procedures and control,
§ 10-311 et seq.; buildings and building regulations, Ch.
14; moving buildings, § 14-406 et seq.; dilapidated buildings, § 14-466 et
seq.; storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks, LPG,
explosives, § 38-168; floods, Ch.
42; health and sanitation, Ch.
46; manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62; natural resources, Ch.
66; storing or keeping explosives, § 70-74; parks and recreation, Ch.
74; planning, Ch.
82; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; subdivisions, Ch.
94; parking prohibited for trucks transporting hazardous materials, §
106-246; utilities, Ch.
110; vegetation, Ch.
114; zoning, Ch.
122.
State Law reference- Authority of City to abate nuisances, 11 O.S. § 22-121;
nuisances generally, 50 O.S. § 1 et seq.; municipal power to define and
summarily abate nuisances, 50 O.S. § 16; powers and duties of county
superintendent of health, 63 O.S. § 1-204; health nuisances, 63 O.S. § 1-1011.
ARTICLE 34-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 34-2 NOISE
   
34-26   Prohibited Noises
   
34-27   Detrimental Noises Prohibited
   
34-28   Enumeration Of Prohibited Noises
   
34-29   Noise For Entertainment Purposes
   
34-30   Commercial Advertising
   
34-31   Temporary Exemptions
   
34-32   Exceptions
Sec 34-26 Prohibited Noises
Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the creating of any unreasonably
loud and disturbing noise within the limits of the City is prohibited.
(Code 1991, § 8-601)
Sec 34-27 Detrimental Noises Prohibited
   A.   Noise of such character, intensity, or duration as to be detrimental to
the life or health of any individual or in disturbance of the public peace and
welfare is prohibited.
   B.   The City Manager or his designee is authorized to issue a permit for
the conduct and operation of drag boat racing on the Purcell City Lake. The
City Council may establish permit fees, hours of operation and days of
operation provided that drag boat racing shall be permitted during daylight
hours only.
(Code 1991, § 8-602; Ord. No. 07-03, § 1, 1-8-2007)
Sec 34-28 Enumeration Of Prohibited Noises
Except where otherwise permitted by this Code or by the City, the following
acts are declared to be loud, disturbing noises and noises in violation of this
chapter. This enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   A.   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, or bus except when reasonably necessary to ensure safe operation;
the creation by means of any such signal device or any unreasonably loud or
harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for an unreasonable period of
time.
   B.   The playing of any radio, phonograph, or a musical instrument in such a
manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m., as to disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any persons in
any office, hospital, dwelling, hotel, or any other type of residence or of any
persons in the vicinity.
   C.   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing on the public
streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any
time or place so as to disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any persons in
any hospital, dwelling, hotel or any other type of residence or of any persons
in the vicinity.
   D.   The keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl which, by causing frequent or
long- continued noise, disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the
vicinity.
   E.   The use of any automobile or motorcycle so out of repair, so loaded, or
in such manner as to cause loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or
other noises.
   F.   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire
or danger, or upon request of proper City authorities.
   G.   To discharge into the open air the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motor boat engine
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
   H.   The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration, or repair,
of any building in any residential district or section, the excavation of
streets and highways in any residential district or section, other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a
permit from the Building Official, which permit may be granted for a period not
to exceed thirty (30) days while the emergency continues; if the Building
Official should determine that the public health and safety will not be
impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration, or repair of any building or
the excavation of streets and highways within the ours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., and if he further determines that loss or inconvenience would result to
any party in interest, he may grant permission for such work to be done within
the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. upon application being made at the time
the permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of the work.
   I.   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church, or court while the same are in session
or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working or
sessions thereof.
   J.   The creation of a loud or excessive noise in connection with loading or
unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates,
and containers.
   K.   The use or operation of a loudspeaker or sound amplification device in
connection with any radio, phonograph, tape recorder, microphone or other
devices in which the emanated sounds are of such a strength, character,
intensity, or duration as to be a public nuisance, cause interference with
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, be detrimental to the life or health of any
individual, or be in disturbance of the public peace and welfare.
(Code 1991, § 8-603)
Cross reference- Noise; music; amplified sound, §
70-76.
Sec 34-29 Noise For Entertainment Purposes
   A.   Use of machines or devices. It is unlawful for any person or persons to
play, use, operate, or permit to be played, used, or operated any radio,
musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound:
      1.   If such sound is for the purpose of entertainment or is used for
that purpose; and
      2.   If the noise source is:
         a.   Located in or upon a public street, highway, building, sidewalk,
park, thoroughfare, or other public area, or is located in or upon a public
access area, such a shopping mall, parking lot, etc., or on any private
property, and the sound can be heard more than fifty (50) feet from its source;
or
         b.   In a building or other structure and the sound can be heard more
than one hundred (100) feet away from the building or structure or the
boundaries of the property surrounding such building or structure, whichever is
greater.
   B.   Prima facie evidence. It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation
of this section if the sound can be heard outside the limits described.
   C.   Presumption of permission within buildings or structures. Where the
noise source is located in a building or other structure, the owner, occupant,
resident, manager, or other person in charge of the premises shall, if present,
be presumed to have permitted the noise in the absence of evidence to the
contrary.
   D.   Presumption of permission in public. Where portable noise-producing
devices such as radios, tape machines, etc., are present in or being
transported through a public area, street, etc., the person or persons in
possession of the device shall be presumed to have permitted the noise in the
absence of evidence to the contrary.
   E.   Warning and arrest. A police officer may, if he has probable cause to
believe a prima facie violation of this section is being committed in his
presence, view, or hearing, warn the apparent perpetrator or perpetrators to
cease such noise as violates this section. If the violation persists after such
warning, the officer may arrest without warrant the perpetrator or perpetrators
of the violation, and it shall not be necessary for the officer to have
received a complaint in order to so act.
(Code 1991, § 8-604)
Sec 34-30 Commercial Advertising
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, group, association, company,
partnership, corporation, or other commercial enterprise to broadcast sound
over a speaker, loudspeaker, or other device for the producing or reproducing
of sound in any manner so as to allow the sound to be audible to normal human
hearing beyond a distance of one hundred (100) feet from the premises of the
building or property wherein such device is located or upon which or to which
such device is affixed.
   B.   The owner, manager, or other person in charge of the building or
premises from which such sound emanates shall be presumed to be responsible
therefor in the absence of evidence to the contrary.
   C.   A law enforcement officer hearing such sound more than one hundred
(100) feet from the boundaries of the premises may investigate to determine the
identity of the person responsible and may, after knocking, enter peacefully
upon the property to make the necessary inquiries. Without the necessity of a
complaint from a private party, the officer may seek a warrant, summons, or
other appropriate process for the violation.
   D.   A violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and the person,
company, or other organization found guilty of such a violation shall be
subject to a fine as provided in Section 1-12 of this Code. Every day upon
which the offending noise is broadcast shall be considered a separate
violation.
(Code 1991, § 8-605)
Sec 34-31 Temporary Exemptions
A permit for a temporary exemption from the provisions of this article may be
issued by the City Manager for commercial, political, civic, charitable, and
other organizations and activities such as fund raisers, carnivals, bazaars,
meetings, and other activities of other than a day-to-day nature. The City
Manager is empowered to issue such permits whenever possible, after considering
the date, time of day, nature of the activity, reason for the activity, and
impact upon the surrounding area, together with other relevant circumstances.
(Code 1991, § 8-606)
Sec 34-32 Exceptions
None of the terms or prohibitions of this chapter shall apply to or be enforced
against:
   A.   Any vehicle of the City while engaged upon necessary public business;
or
   B.   Excavations or repairs of bridges, streets, or highways by or on behalf
of the City, County, or the State during the night, when the public welfare and
convenience renders it impracticable to perform such work during the day.
(Code 1991, § 8-607)
ARTICLE 34-3 NUISANCES
   
34-56   Definitions
   
34-57   Procedure Cumulative
   
34-58   Penalty
   
34-59   Prohibited
   
34-60   Time Does Not Legalize
   
34-61   Remedies Against Public Nuisances
   
34-62   Remedies Against Private Nuisances
   
34-63   City Has Power To Define And Summarily Abate Nuisances
   
34-64   Certain Public Nuisances Declared
   
34-65   Summary Abatement
   
34-66   Abatement By Suit In District Court
   
34-67   Cost Of Abatement
   
34-68   Cost To Be Determined; Statement Of Cost To Be Sent
   
34-69   Failure To Pay Costs; Costs To Be Certified To County Treasurer
   
34-70   Damages And Prosecution For Public Offense
   
34-71   Health Nuisances; Abatement
   
34-72   Toilet Facilities Required; Nuisance
Cross reference- Animal nuisances, §
10-61 et seq.; junked, wrecked vehicles a nuisance, §
106-403.
State Law reference- Nuisances in municipalities, 11 O.S. § 22-121; nuisances
generally, 50 O.S. § 1 et seq.
Sec 34-56 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Nuisance means unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty,
or is any thing or condition which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   B.   Private nuisance means every nuisance not included in the definition of
"public nuisance" in this section.
   C.   Public nuisance means every nuisance that affects at the same time an
entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
(Code 1991, § 8-401)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec 34-57 Procedure Cumulative
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this article and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative to any other
penalties or procedures authorized.
(Code 1991, § 8-417)
Sec 34-58 Penalty
Any person, firm, or corporation which violates any of the provisions of this
article or shall allow the premises occupied to become unsanitary, or who shall
in any manner violate any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in
Section
1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 8-418)
Sec 34-59 Prohibited
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any
owner or lessee of property to create or maintain a nuisance within the City.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or control of any
property in the City, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
to permit a nuisance to exist or remain on the property. Every successive owner
of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance upon or in the use of
such property created by a former owner is liable therefor in the same manner
as the one who first created it.
(Code 1991, §§ 8-402, 8-413)
Sec 34-60 Time Does Not Legalize
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Code 1991, § 8-403)
Sec 34-61 Remedies Against Public Nuisances
The remedies against a public nuisance are:
   A.   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
   B.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
   C.   Civil action; or
   D.   Abatement:
      1.   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
      2.   By the City in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 8-404)
Sec 34-62 Remedies Against Private Nuisances
The remedies against a private nuisance are:
   A.   Civil action; and
   B.   Abatement:
      1.   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14, 15;
      2.   By the City in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 8-405)
Sec 34-63 City Has Power To Define And Summarily Abate Nuisances
As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the City has the right and power to determine what
is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for
the protection of the public health, the public parks, and the public water
supply, has such power outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is
practical to do so, the City has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance
after notice to the owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can
be given.
(Code 1991, § 8-406)
Sec 34-64 Certain Public Nuisances Declared
In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of this Code
or by law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
   A.   The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
   B.   The sale, offering for sale, or furnishing of alcoholic beverages in
violation of the State law or ordinances of the City; or keeping of a place
where alcoholic beverages are sold, offered for sale, or furnished in violation
of the State law or ordinances of the City;
   C.   The exposure, display, sale, or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or objects; or the keeping of a
place such are exposed, displayed, sold, or distributed;
   D.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise;
   E.   The keeping of a bawdy-house, house of ill-fame, house of assignation,
house of prostitution, or any other house or place for persons to visit for
unlawful sexual intercourse, or for any other lewd, obscene, or indecent
purpose;
   F.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of State law or
ordinance are practiced or carried on;
   G.   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the ordinances
of the City; or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
   H.   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
   I.   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which disturb persons of
ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
   J.   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio, television, or other
telecommunications reception by others;
   K.   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise by law or ordinance;
   L.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
   M.   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies, or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety;
   N.   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse, or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs and the premises on which such exist;
   O.   Any pit, hole, or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety;
   P.   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
   Q.   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace, health,
morals, safety or welfare;
   R.   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle license plate and current safety inspection
sticker as required by law for vehicles used on the public highways, when
stored or kept in a residence district;
   S.   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or disturbing to any resident of this City by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein or by reason of lack of sanitation is hereby
declared to be a nuisance; and
   T.   Every building or other structure that is or shall become unsafe and
dangerous to the public health or safety because of fire, damage, decay, or
other cause or condition or shall become hazardous from fire, by reason of age,
decay, construction, location or other causes or shall be detrimental or
dangerous to the health, safety, or welfare of this City or its inhabitants
from any cause is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
The enumeration of certain public nuisances in this section shall be cumulative
and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private
nuisances either in more general or more specific terms.
(Code 1991, § 8-407)
Sec 34-65 Summary Abatement
   A.   Justification. Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a
grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of
one (1) or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that
circumstances may be such as to justify and even to require the City Manager or
other appropriate officer or agency of the City government to take immediate
and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances or to reduce or suspend the
danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   B.   Statement of existence and recommendation of abatement. The Fire Chief,
the Chief of Police, the City Attorney, the Health Officer, or any other
designated subordinate of the City Manager or any Councilmember or resident may
submit, through or with the consent of the City Manager to the Code
Administration Officer, a statement as to the existence of a nuisance as
defined by the ordinances of the City or State law and a request or
recommendation that it be abated.
   C.   Investigation and notification. Upon receiving the complaint or
observing the nuisance himself, the City Manager or his designee will
investigate the alleged nuisance. If he determines that a public nuisance
exists, he will notify the person responsible for the nuisance. Such notice to
the owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing, by mail, or by
service by a police officer if their names and addresses are known, but if the
names and addresses are not known, and the public peace, health, safety,
morals, or welfare would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation
within the City. Such notice shall provide not less than ten (10) days nor more
than sixty (60) days, at the discretion of the City Manager or his designee, in
which to abate such nuisance or to request a hearing as hereinafter set forth.
   D.   Hearing upon abatement notice. If the person receiving the abatement
notice wishes a hearing, he must request it in writing within ten (10) days and
mail or file it with the City Clerk. The hearing on his request will be before
the City Manager and will be held as soon as possible after the request is
filed. The City Manager shall render his decision by written memorandum and
file the same with the City Clerk, who shall thereupon mail a copy to the
person or persons requesting the hearing at the last known mailing address.
   E.   Appeal to City Council. If the person responsible for a nuisance wishes
to appeal the City Manager's decision, he may request a hearing before the City
Council. Such request must be in writing and submitted to the City Clerk within
five (5) days after notice of the decision of the City Manager is mailed to
him.
   F.   Council to determine nuisance in fact. The Council shall determine
whether or not the alleged nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of
gathering evidence on the subject, the Council shall have power to subpoena and
examine witnesses, books, papers, and other effects.
   G.   Determination of nuisance by Council. If the Council finds that a
nuisance does in fact exist, it shall direct the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance to abate it within a specified time if
the peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of the person or persons or
public adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent
delay. If such peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare would be unduly
jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, the Council shall direct the City Manager to abate the nuisance or to
have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 O.S. §
16. The City Clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary abatement
to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may
be just under the circumstances, if the names and addresses are known. Until
paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the City, collectible as other debts
of the City may be collected.
(Code 1991, § 8-408)
Sec 34-66 Abatement By Suit In District Court
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the City
may bring suit in the district court of the county in which the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(Code 1991, § 8-409)
Sec 34-67 Cost Of Abatement
If the person responsible for the nuisance is unable to pay for its removal,
the work may be done by the employees of this City under supervision of the
City Manager, or it may be let by contract to the lowest and best bidder, after
appropriate notice, in the manner for letting other contracts.
(Code 1991, § 8-410)
Sec 34-68 Cost To Be Determined; Statement Of Cost To Be Sent
Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under Section
34-65, the City Manager shall prepare a report on the cost thereof. Such report
shall be itemized as to each tract, as follows: labor, machinery rental or
depreciation, fuel and supplies, cost of notice, and other costs. The City
Manager shall determine the total actual costs of the work and shall direct the
City Clerk to forward a statement and demand payment thereof by certified mail
with return receipt requested to the owner of the property at the address shown
by the current tax rolls in the office of the treasurer of the county in which
the property lies. If the statement is not paid within twenty (20) days after
such statement is mailed, the Council may direct the City Attorney to institute
action to establish its lien against the property on which such work was done
and to request the court to cause such property to be sold and the lien paid.
(Code 1991, § 8-411)
Sec 34-69 Failure To Pay Costs; Costs To Be Certified To County Treasurer
In the event the City does not elect to proceed by legal action as set forth in
this article, then six (6) months from the date of mailing the notice
prescribed by section
34-67, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of such
costs to the County Treasurer, which costs shall be levied upon the property
and shall be collected by the County Treasurer in the manner prescribed by the
laws of the State.
(Code 1991, § 8-412)
Sec 34-70 Damages And Prosecution For Public Offense
The fact that the City has abated and removed a nuisance shall in no way excuse
the party responsible therefor from any damages which may have resulted prior
thereto. Neither shall the order of abatement prevent the Chief of Police or
other person from filing a complaint where the nuisance constitutes a public
offense. The Chief of Police may file a complaint in each and every instance
where the nuisance amounts to a public offense, and the person responsible
therefor shall be prosecuted on such complaint. On determination of guilt, he
shall be punished as provided for punishment of public offenses.
(Code 1991, § 8-414)
Sec 34-71 Health Nuisances; Abatement
   A.   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the Health Officer
shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any private premises in
the City to remove from such premises, at his own expense, any source of filth,
cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of insects or rodents
that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any other condition
adversely affecting the public health, within twenty-four (24) hours or within
such other time as may be reasonable, and a failure to do so shall constitute
an offense. Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the Health
Officer or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual
place of abode of the owner, occupant, or agent, if known and within the State.
If the premises is unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant, or
agent is unknown or is without the State, the order may be served by posting a
copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least one (1) issue of a
newspaper having a general circulation in the City.
   B.   If the order is not complied with, the Health Officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the City Clerk and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
added to the water bill or other City utility bill of the owner or occupant if
he is a user of water from the City water system or such other utility service.
The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it is added
and shall become due and payable and be subject to the same regulations
relating to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself.
   C.   If the owner or occupant is not a user of any City utility service, and
if the order is not complied with, the Health Officer may cause the order to be
executed and complied with and the cost thereof shall be certified to the
County Clerk, who shall add the same to the ad valorem taxes assessed against
the property, and such cost shall be a lien against the property until paid and
shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem taxes against the property,
and when collected shall be paid to the local Health Officer, or successor
thereof, issuing the order, for reimbursement of the funds used to pay such
cost.
(Code 1991, § 8-415)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 63 O.S. § 1011.
Sec 34-72 Toilet Facilities Required; Nuisance
   A.   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the respective meanings ascribed to them in this section:
      1.   Human excrement means the bowel and kidney discharge of human
beings.
      2.   Sanitary pit privy means a privy which is built, rebuilt, or
constructed so as to conform with the specifications approved by the State
Health Department.
      3.   Sanitary water closet means the flush-type toilet which is connected
with a sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away
the contents at all times.
   B.   Installation and maintenance of sanitary facilities. Every owner of a
residence or other building in which humans reside, are employed, or congregate
within this City shall install, equip, and maintain adequate sanitary
facilities for the disposal of human excrement by use of a sanitary water
closet. The closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the sanitary water
closet type when located within three hundred (300) feet of a sanitary sewer
and accessible thereto and of the sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a
greater distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water closet type emptying into
a septic tank system. A septic tank system or a pit privy may be used in such
cases only if it meets the standards of the State Environmental Quality Board
and is approved by the State Department of Environmental Quality or a person
authorized by the department.
   C.   Disposal of human excrement. All human excrement disposed of within
this City shall be disposed of by depositing it in closets of the type provided
for in this section. It is unlawful for any owner of property within the City
to permit the disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner or for
any person to dispose of human excrement within the City in any other manner.
   D.   Cleanliness and sanitation. Any privy shall be kept clean and sanitary
at all times, and the covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at
all times when the privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen slop, or
anything other than human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied into a
privy.
   E.   Endangerment of public health. All facilities for the disposal of human
excrement in a manner different from that required by this section, and all
privies and closets so constructed, situated, or maintained as to endanger the
public health, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and may be dealt with
and abated as such. Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an
offense, and each day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate
offense.
(Code 1991, § 8-416)
CHAPTER 38 FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
ARTICLE 38-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 38-2 FIRE PROTECTION
ARTICLE 38-3 CALLS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS
ARTICLE 38-4 RURAL FIRE SERVICE
ARTICLE 38-5 FIRE PREVENTION
ARTICLE 38-6 MITIGATION RATES FOR SERVICES RENDERED BY THE PURCELL FIRE
DEPARTMENT
Cross reference- Civil emergencies, Ch.
26; burning refuse prohibited, § 46-113; fire protection on mobile home,
manufactured home, and travel trailer parks, § 62-42; interference with fire
hydrants, § 70-43; storing or keeping explosives, § 70-74; vehicle blocking
fire exits or hydrants, § 106-371 et seq.
State Law reference- Adoption of fire prevention code, 11 O.S. § 14-107;
municipal regulation of fireworks, 11 O.S. § 22-110; fire hazards, 11 O.S. §
22-113; fire departments, 11 O.S. § 29-101 et seq.; volunteer fire departments,
11 O.S. § 29-201 et seq.; Oklahoma Firefighters Pension and Retirement System,
11 O.S. § 49-100.1 et seq.; contract with fire protection district, 19 O.S. §
901.25; liquefied petroleum gases, 52 O.S. § 420.1 et seq.; nitroglycerine, 63
O.S. § 128.1 et seq.
State Constitution reference- Firemen's pensions, OK Const. Art. 5 § 41.
ARTICLE 38-1 IN GENERAL
   
38-1   Definitions
Sec 38-1 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Fire prevention code and life safety code mean such codes as adopted in
Article 5 of this chapter.
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
ARTICLE 38-2 FIRE PROTECTION
DIVISION 38-2-1 GENERALLY (RESERVED)
DIVISION 38-2-2 FIRE DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 38-2-3 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 38-2-1 GENERALLY (RESERVED)
DIVISION 38-2-2 FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
38-51   Created; Duties; Fire Chief
   
38-52   Duties Of Fire Chief
   
38-53   Subordinates; Duties Of Assistant Fire Chief
   
38-54   Use Of Fire Equipment, Inventory, And Repair
Sec 38-51 Created; Duties; Fire Chief
There shall be a Fire Department, the head of which shall be the Fire Chief. It
is the duty of the Fire Department, among other duties that may be provided for
by the Council, to extinguish fires, to rescue persons endangered by fire, to
resuscitate and to administer first aid to persons injured in or about burning
structures or elsewhere in case of an emergency, to promote fire prevention,
and unless otherwise provided to enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire
prevention, and safety of persons from fire and explosions in theaters, stores,
and other public buildings.
(Code 1991, § 13-201)
Sec 38-52 Duties Of Fire Chief
The Fire Chief shall be at the head of the department, subject to the City
Charter, the ordinances of the City, and the laws of the State.
   A.   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him;
   B.   The Fire Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year;
   C.   The Fire Chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members;
   D.   The Fire Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct
the officers and members in the performance of their duties;
   E.   The Fire Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the department;
   F.   The Fire Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism shall notify
proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use
in the case;
   G.   The Fire Chief, or any agent designated by the City Manager, is
authorized to enter any building or premises in the City at any reasonable hour
for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written notice on the owners
or occupants to correct any hazard or violation that may be found; and
   H.   The Fire Chief, or any agent designated by the City Manager, shall
ensure that complete records are kept of all fires, inspections, apparatus and
equipment, personnel, and other information of the department and shall make
reports to the City Manager as he may require.
(Code 1991, § 13-202)
Sec 38-53 Subordinates; Duties Of Assistant Fire Chief
In the absence of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief on duty shall
command the department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with
the full powers and responsibilities of the Fire Chief. Unless the City Manager
delegates any such appointive authority to the Fire Chief, the City Manager
shall appoint:
   A.   The Assistant Fire Chief; and
   B.   Other officers and employees of the Fire Department, as deemed
necessary, after consultation with the Fire Chief.
(Code 1991, § 13-203)
Sec 38-54 Use Of Fire Equipment, Inventory, And Repair
   A.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Fire Department. No person shall
enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or
equipment belonging to the Fire Department unless accompanied by, or having the
special permission of, an officer or authorized member of the Fire Department.
   B.   The Fire Chief shall prepare and keep a complete inventory of all
property belonging to the Fire Department and shall at the expiration of his
term turn over such inventory and all such property to his successor, together
with all books, records, reports and data of the department.
(Code 1991, § 13-204)
DIVISION 38-2-3 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
38-81   Selection Requirements For Company Officers
   
38-82   Secretary-Treasurer
   
38-83   New Members
   
38-84   Rules And Regulations
   
38-85   Other Rules And Regulations
Sec 38-81 Selection Requirements For Company Officers
The company officers of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be selected upon
their ability to meet the following requirements:
   A.   Their knowledge of firefighting;
   B.   Their leadership ability; and
   C.   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment.
(Code 1991, § 13-210)
State Law reference- Volunteer fire departments, 11 O.S. § 29-201 et seq.
Sec 38-82 Secretary-Treasurer
One member elected by the Volunteer Fire Department shall be Secretary-
Treasurer. His duties shall consist of the following:
   A.   Calling the roll of the opening of each meeting;
   B.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
   C.   Collecting any money due the department by the members.
(Code 1991, § 13-211)
Sec 38-83 New Members
   A.   All new members shall be on probation for one (1) year after their
appointment. New probationary members shall be recommended by the Fire Chief
and appointed by the City Manager.
   B.   New volunteer members upon completion of their probation period must be
approved by the Fire Chief and appointed by the City Manager.
(Code 1991, § 13-212)
Sec 38-84 Rules And Regulations
The Volunteer Fire Department shall be subject to the following rules and
regulations which shall be incorporated in the bylaws of the department:
   A.   A volunteer firefighter is required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies;
   B.   A volunteer firefighter is required to be present at all regular
meetings, call meetings, and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighters;
   C.   There shall be at least one (1) regular business meeting each month;
   D.   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession
or three (3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be dropped
from the Fire Department rolls;
   E.   Volunteer firefighters leaving the City for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the Fire Chief;
   F.   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him will be dropped from the rolls; and
   G.   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      2.   Any act of insubordination;
      3.   Neglect of duty;
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
      5.   Conviction of a felony.
(Code 1991, § 13-213)
Sec 38-85 Other Rules And Regulations
The Council, by ordinance, is hereby authorized to adopt other rules and
regulations governing the Fire Department.
(Code 1991, § 13-214)
ARTICLE 38-3 CALLS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS
   
38-111   Contracts Authorized Outside City Limits
   
38-112   Contract Terms; Fees For Services
   
38-113   Authority Of Fire Department
   
38-114   Compensation; Pension Fund
   
38-115   Department Considered Agent Of State; Liability For Damages
Sec 38-111 Contracts Authorized Outside City Limits
The City is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
political subdivisions of the State for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the City and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the State.
(Code 1991, § 13-220)
State Law reference- Mutual aid, fire protection outside corporate limits, 11
O.S. § 29-105 et seq.
Sec 38-112 Contract Terms; Fees For Services
   A.   The City shall charge a reasonable amount for fire services outside the
City limits, the owner, association, or political subdivision for which
services are furnished shall be responsible for payment.
   B.   Any contract entered into by the City with an individual owner, firm,
private corporation, association, or political subdivision for outside aid or
mutual aid for fire protection shall provide for the payment by the owner,
firm, private corporation or association, or political subdivision to the City
for such fire apparatus and personnel at the rate as set by the Council.
(Code 1991, § 13-221; Ord. No. 99-37, § 1, 12-6-1999)
Sec 38-113 Authority Of Fire Department
The Fire Department may respond to all requests from outside the corporate
limits for services within the scope of its duties within the corporate limits,
unless, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, it is inexpedient to do so because of
another fire in the City, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways,
or other physical conditions.
(Code 1991, § 13-222)
Sec 38-114 Compensation; Pension Fund
All City firefighters, full-paid or volunteer, attending and serving at fires
or doing fire prevention work or rescue, resuscitation, first aid, inspection,
or any other official work outside the corporate limits of the City as provided
in 11 O.S. §§ 29-105-29-108 shall be considered as serving in their regular
line of duty as full as if they were serving within the corporate limits of the
City; but full-paid firefighters shall receive no additional compensation and
volunteer firefighters shall receive only such compensation as may be provided
for by ordinance or resolution for such cases. All such firefighters shall be
entitled to all the benefits of any pension fund, firemen's relief and pension
fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work or
rescue, resuscitation, first aid, inspection, or any other official work has
been within the corporate limits of the City.
(Code 1991, § 13-223)
Editor's note- Ord. Nos. 369, 97-10 and 2006 all pertaining to the pay for
volunteer firefighters have been repealed by Ord. No. 10-10, 8-2-2010.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 29-107.
Sec 38-115 Department Considered Agent Of State; Liability For Damages
The Fire Department of the City answering any fire alarms or performing fire
prevention services or rescue, resuscitation, first aid, inspection, or any
other official work outside the corporate limits of the City shall be
considered an agent of the State and acting solely and alone in a governmental
capacity.
The City shall not be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission, or
negligence while answering or returning from any fire or reported fire or doing
or performing any fire prevention work or rescue, resuscitation, first aid,
inspection, or any other official work.
(Code 1991, § 13-224; Ord. No. 99-37, § 2, 12-6-1999)
ARTICLE 38-4 RURAL FIRE SERVICE
   
38-141   Established
   
38-142   Advisory Board Established
Sec 38-141 Established
   A.   Establishment; direction. There is hereby established the "Purcell
Rural Fire Service," to be operated by the City Fire Department and be under
the direction of the City Council and City Manager.
   B.   Operation for rural residents. The rural fire service shall be operated
primarily for the purpose of providing fire protection to rural residents
living outside of the corporate limits of the City, but within the area
encompassed generally by the City mailing route or any other area recommended
by the rural fire advisory board and approved by the City Council.
   C.   Annual membership fee. This service is provided upon the annual payment
of a membership fee, as set by the City Council, by each home or property owner
or resident. Payment of an annual membership fee by each home or property owner
or resident will provide a fire truck and equipment for a rural fire service,
purchased from the rural fire service membership fee and independent of the
City fire equipment.
   D.   Costs for nonpaying members. The costs of fire calls to rural residents
who are nonpaying members of the rural fire service shall be the same as the
costs established in Section
38-112.
   E.   Membership fee due date. Payment of the membership fee is due on or
before July 1 of each year.
   F.   Payment of claims and financial transactions. Payment of claims and
other financial transactions involving the use of funds derived from the rural
fire service shall be made and processed in accordance with the requirements of
State statutes, City ordinances and accepted City procedures.
   G.   Responsibility for damages by Fire Department. In the performance of
fire prevention or protection services outside the corporate limits of the
City, the City Fire Department shall not assume responsibility for damages to
structures incurred prior to the arrival of the department nor shall the
department assume responsibility for damages to structures incurred as a result
of late notification of the members of the department.
   H.   Collection of unpaid fees. Unpaid fees, charges, or annual memberships
may be subject to collection by the City in any manner normally employed by the
City, including the use of small claims procedures in the district court.
   I.   Expense to members. The expense to a rural fire member for a fire call
shall be directed to the member's insurer based on the same rate as established
in Section
38-112.
(Code 1991, § 13-230; Ord. No. 99-37, § 3, 12-6-1999)
Sec 38-142 Advisory Board Established
   A.   Establishment. There is hereby established a "Purcell Rural Fire
Service Advisory Board," for the purpose of advising the City Council
concerning the operation of the rural fire service.
   B.   Composition. The advisory board shall consist of a City representative
and four (4) additional members, who shall be appointed by the City Council
from the rural members of the rural fire service.
   C.   Eligibility; terms. All paying members of the rural fire service shall
be eligible to serve on the advisory board. The board members shall serve for
three (3) year staggered terms.
   D.   Meetings. The advisory board shall normally meet once each quarter of
the year.
   E.   Submission of purchases and activities for board's review. The Fire
Chief shall be responsible for ensuring that proposed fire protection-related
purchases and activities are submitted to the advisory board for their
recommendation and comment prior to final action by the City Council, if in
excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Failure to submit such proposals to
the advisory board shall not invalidate City Council action on any such
proposal.
Code 1991, § 13-231; Ord. No. 99-37, § 4, 12-6-1999)
ARTICLE 38-5 FIRE PREVENTION
   
38-166   Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code, Life Safety Code
   
38-167   Enforcement Of Codes
   
38-168   Storage Of Flammable Liquids In Outside Aboveground Tanks, LPG,
Explosives
   
38-169   Modifications
   
38-170   New Materials, Processes, And Occupancies
   
38-171   Appeals
   
38-172   Penalties
   
38-173   Installation Of Smoke Detectors
Sec 38-166 Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code, Life Safety Code
There is hereby adopted by the City Council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion those certain codes known as the Fire Prevention Code, recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, and the Life Safety Code, recommended
by the National Fire Protection Association, being particularly the latest
editions thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended by this code. At least one (1) copy
of each code is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
The codes are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
in this article. The provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits
of the City.
(Code 1991, § 13-101)
Sec 38-167 Enforcement Of Codes
   A.   Administration. The Fire Prevention Code and the Life Safety Code shall
be administered and enforced by the "authority having jurisdiction," as used in
such codes, which shall be the Fire Department, under the supervision of the
Fire Chief or other City Manager designee.
   B.   Fire Inspectors. The Fire Chief may detail such members of the Fire
Department as inspectors as may be necessary from time to time.
   C.   Issuance of permits. The Fire Chief shall issue all permits required by
this article except as may be otherwise provided.
   D.   Definition of "open burning." "Open burning" shall be defined as the
burning of any materials wherein products of combustion are emitted directly
into the ambient air without passing through a stack or chimney from an
enclosed chamber. For the purpose of this definition, a chamber shall be
regarded as enclosed when, during the time combustion occurs, only apertures,
ducts, stacks, flues, or chimneys necessary to provide combustion air and
permit the escape of exhaust gas are open.
   E.   Open burning regulated. No person shall cause or permit open burning in
any public or private place outside any building, provided that open burning
may be conducted if no public nuisance is or will be created, as follows:
      1.   Fires purposely set for the instruction and training of firefighting
personnel
when authorized by the Fire Chief.
      2.   Fires set for the elimination of fire hazards or hazardous material
where there is no other practical or lawful method of disposal and such burning
is authorized by the Fire Chief.
      3.   Recreation fires:
         a.   Campfires, bonfires, ceremonial occasions, or non-preparation of
food with the following provisions:
            (1)   All bonfires require a permit and will not be more than five
(5) feet by five (5) feet by five (5) feet in dimension and shall burn for less
than three (3) hours. Sponsors for special community events may apply to the
Fire Chief for a special bonfire permit for a larger bonfire. A bonfire shall
consist of seasoned dry wood. No gasoline or liquid hydrocarbon fuels shall be
used for ignition.
            (2)   Campfires are not permitted in residentially zoned areas.
Campfires require a permit and approval of the Fire Chief.
            (3)   Barbecue grills or other wood burning grills are allowed at
public parks and recreational facilities if approved by the park manager. All
fires on public park and recreation property shall be attended at all times by
at least one (1) adult individual until the fire is completely extinguished.
            (4)   Fires used for food preparation purposes, fueled by wood,
charcoal, and gas if confined within a metal or masonry appliance designed for
such use are allowed without a permit, provided:
               (A)   The fires are supervised;
               (B)   The size of fire does not present a fire-spread danger;
and
               (C)   The fires are being used expressly for the preparation of
food. Food preparation fires are not permitted directly on the ground, unless
the containment is approved by the Fire Chief.
               (D)   Barbecuing on combustible decks or balconies at multistory
apartment complexes is not allowed.
      4.   Fires purposely set for the management of forest or game in
accordance with practices recommended by the State Department of Agriculture or
the United States Forest Service and which are authorized by the Fire Chief.
      5.   Any burning within the City shall comply with all applicable
provisions of the Oklahoma Clean Air Act (27A O.S. § 2-5-101 et seq.) and the
Air Pollution Control Rules adopted thereunder.
      6.   The City will comply with any burn ban declared by the State.
A permit, authorized by the Fire Chief, must be attained from the Fire
Department seven (7) days prior to any open burning permitted in this section.
(Code 1991, § 13-102; Ord. No. 01-11, § 1, 8-6-2001)
Sec 38-168 Storage Of Flammable Liquids In Outside Aboveground Tanks, LPG,
Explosives
The limits referred to in the Fire Prevention Code in which:
   A.   Storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is
prohibited;
   B.   New bulk plants for flammable liquids are prohibited;
   C.   Bulk storage of liquefied petroleum is prohibited; and
   D.   Storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited;
shall be as established by the City Council. This section shall not prohibit
installations described in subsections (A) and (B) of this section which are in
existence at the initial effective date of the ordinance from which this
section derives.
(Code 1991, § 13-103)
Cross reference- Environment, Ch.
34.
Sec 38-169 Modifications
The City Manager and Fire Chief, with the approval of the City Council, shall
have power to modify any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code or of
the Life Safety Code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his
duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the code; provided that the spirit of the
code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision
of the manager, Fire Chief, and Council thereon shall be entered upon the
records of the Council and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
(Code 1991, § 13-104)
Sec 38-170 New Materials, Processes, And Occupancies
The City Manager, the Fire Chief, and one (1) person appointed by the City
Council shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving
affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes, or
occupancies which shall require permits in addition to those now enumerated in
the Fire Prevention Code or the Life Safety Code. The Fire Chief shall post
such list in a conspicuous place in his office and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons.
(Code 1991, § 13-105)
Sec 38-171 Appeals
Whenever the Fire Chief or the City Manager shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the Fire Prevention Code or the Life Safety Code do not apply or that the
true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly
interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the City Manager to
the City Council within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision
appealed.
(Code 1991, § 13-106)
Sec 38-172 Penalties
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention
Code or Life Safety Code or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails
to comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within
the time fixed therein, shall severally for every such violation and
noncompliance respectively be guilty of an offense punishable as provided in
Section
1-12 of this Code. The imposition of one (1) penalty for any violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such persons shall
be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. When not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Code 1991, § 13-107)
Sec 38-173 Installation Of Smoke Detectors
   A.   Any person, partnership, corporation, organization, LLC or other
entity, owning a building or structure used as a hospital, church, theater,
hotel, motel, apartment house, rooming house, dormitory, rest home, nursing
home, day nursery, convalescent home, auditorium, child care institution,
residential home, or business existing or constructed in the City of Purcell
shall install in such building or structure a smoke detector or detectors in
accordance with the nationally recognized codes, standards, or practices
adopted by the State of Oklahoma Fire Marshal Commission or other fire code
[that] is now in force and effect or that may later be adopted by the City of
Purcell to safeguard life and property from the hazards of smoke and fire.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, the term "smoke detector" means a
device which is:
      1.   Designed to detect visible or invisible products of combustion;
      2.   Designed with an alarm audible to the rooms it serves;
      3.   Powered by either battery, alternating current, or other power
source; and
      4.   Tested and listed for use as a smoke detector by a recognized
testing laboratory.
   C.   Any person, partnership, corporation, LLC or other entity who is a
lessor of a residential or commercial rental property shall explain to the
lessee or tenant the method of testing the smoke detector to ensure that it is
in working order. The responsibility for checking a smoke detector to find out
whether such detector is in working order is with the tenant or lessee leasing
or renting a dwelling, including an apartment in each apartment house, and not
with the person, partnership, corporation, LLC or other entity who is a lessor
of the rental property to the lessee or tenant.
   D.   Beginning February 6, 2014, all new construction or remodeling of
residential and/or commercial dwellings which require a building permit shall
include the installment of smoke detectors or the electrical wiring necessary
for the installment of electrical smoke detectors.
   E.   Any person, partnership, corporation, LLC or other entity who violates
any provision of subsections (A) and (C) of this section or any person who
tampers with, removes, destroys, disconnects or removes power from any
installed smoke detector, except in the course of inspection, maintenance or
replacement of the detector, upon conviction, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
may be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   F.   The City Manager and Fire Chief shall prescribe, adopt, and promulgate
the rules necessary to effectuate the provisions of this section which shall
include a practical time table for compliance with the provisions of this act.
(Ord. No. 14-02, § 1, 2-3-2014)
ARTICLE 38-6 MITIGATION RATES FOR SERVICES RENDERED BY THE
PURCELL FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
38-180   List Of Company Services
   
38-181   Mitigation Rates Per Hour
Sec 38-180 List Of Company Services
   A.   Company agrees to bill the responsible party on the Client's behalf for
services provided/rendered during motor vehicle incidents and other emergency
incidents. The Mitigation Rates lists in section 38-181 A will increase by 1.5%
annually or based on the annual percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index
(CPI), as developed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of
Labor, whichever is more. Rate adjustments will occur on the anniversary date
of this ordinance/resolution to keep the fire department's cost recovery
program in conformity with increasing operating expenses.
   B.   Company will provide, as a normal matter of business; entry of claims
and submission to the responsible party, collections of monies deemed due to
the Client, payments of the agreed upon percentage of said monies to Client,
and reporting of progress.
   C.   Company agrees to bill to the best of its ability all claims provided
to Company by the Client.
   D.   Company will not begin litigation against a person, entity, or
insurance carrier without prior written approval by the Client.
   E.   Company agrees to reimburse Client a portion of the monies collected at
a rate of 80% (eighty-percent) of the total monies collected on the Client's
claims. Total monies collected will be net, after any credit card processing
fees (charged at 4%) or any collection agency fees. If Client submits a claim
to Company and later wants to cancel the claim, Client may be subject to a
billing fee. If Client agrees to submit a claim to Company's collection agency
and later wants to remove it from collection status, Client may be subject to a
fee of up to 35% of the amount of the claim to compensate for efforts made to
collect the claim.
   F.   Company agrees to pay these monies collected to the Client on a monthly
basis, within seven (7) working days after the close and accounting of the
monthly billing cycle.
   G.   Company agrees to make available reports via a password protected
website to the Client which detail billable claims outstanding (which are
claims submitted, but not yet completed) and claims completed in the prior
billing cycle.
   H.   Company will not be responsible for, nor accept any liability for, any
erroneous, invalid, or illegal procedure codes or claims submitted to Company
by the Client on the Run Sheets.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 19-06 on 7/1/2019
Sec 38-181 Mitigation Rates Per Hour
The mitigation rates below are average "billing levels", and are typical for
the incident responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted, it will be
itemized and based on the actual services provided.
These rates are based on actual costs using amortized schedules for apparatus
(including useful life, equipment, repairs, and maintenance). Labor rates
include an average department's actual burdened labor costs and not just a
firefighters wage. These include wages, retirement, benefits, workers comp,
etc.
MOTOR VEHICLE INCIDENTS
MOTOR VEHICLE INCIDENTS
Level 1
Provide hazardous materials assessment
and scene stabilization. This will be
the most common "billing level". This   $494.00
occurs almost every time the fire
department responds to an accident/
incident.
Level 2
Includes Level 1 services as well as
clean up and material used (sorbents)
for hazardous fluid clean up and
disposal. We will bill at this level if $562.00
the fire department has to clean up any
gasoline or other automotive fluids
that are spilled as a result of the
accident/incident.
Level 3 CAR FIRE
Provide scene safety, fire suppression,
breathing air, rescue tools, hand
tools, hose, tip use, foam, structure   $687.00
protection, and clean up gasoline or
other automotive fluids that are
spilled as a result of the accident/
incident.
ADD-ON SERVICES
Extrication
Includes heavy rescue tools, ropes,
airbags, cribbing etc. This charge will
be added if the fire department has to
free/remove anyone from the vehicle(s)
using any equipment. We will not bill   $1,483.00
at this level if the patient is simply
unconscious and fire department is able
to open the door to access the patient.
This level is to be billed only if
equipment is deployed.
Creating a Landing Zone                 $454.00
Includes Air Care (multi-engine company Itemized Response: You have the option
response, mutual aid, helicopter). We   to bill each incident as an independent
will bill at this level any time a      event with The claim begins when the
helicopter landing zone is created and/ Fire Investigator responds to the
or Is utilized to transport the patient incident and is billed for logged time
(s).                                    only.
FIRES
Assignment
Includes:
    Scene Safety
    Investigation
    Fire/Hazard Control
This will be the most common "billing
lever. This occurs almost every time    $455.00 per hour, per engine/$568. 00
the fire department responds to an      per hour, per truck
incident.
OPTIONAL: A fire department has the
option to bill each fire as an
independent event with custom
mitigation rates. Itemized, per person,
at various pay levels and for itemized
products use.
ILLEGAL FIRES
Assignment
When a fire is started by any person or
persons that requires a fire department
response during a time or season when
fires are regulated or controlled by
local or state rules, provisions or
ordinances because of pollution or fire
danger concerns, such person or persons
will be liable for the fire department
response at a cost not to exceed the
actual expenses incurred by the fire
department to respond and contain the   $455.00 per hour, per engin/$568.0 0
fire. Similarly, if a fire is started   per hour, per truck
where penn its are required for such a
fire and the permit was not obtained
and the fire department is required to
respond to contain the fire the
responsible party will be liable for
the response at a cost not to exceed
the actual expenses incurred by the
fire department. The actual expenses
will include direct labor, equipment
costs and any other costs that can be
reasonably allocated to the cost of the
response.
WATER INCIDENTS
Level 1
Basic Response: Claim will include
engine response, first responder
assignment, perimeter establishment,
evacuations, first responder set- up
and command, scene safety and           $455 plus
investigation (including possible       $57 per hour, per rescue person.
patient contact, hazard control). This
will be the most common "billing
level". This occurs almost every time
the fire department responds to a water
incident.
Level 2
Intermediate Response: Includes Level 1
services as well as clean up and
material used (sorbents), minor
hazardous clean up and disposal. We     $909 plus
will bill at this level if the fire     $57 per hour, per rescue person.
department has to clean up small
amounts of gasoline or other fluids
that are spilled as a result of the
incident.
Level 3
Advanced Response: Includes Level 1 and
Level 2 services as well as D.A.R.T.
activation, donning breathing apparatus
and detection equipment. Set up and     $2,274 plus
removal of decon center, detection      $57 per hour per rescue person, plus
equipment, recovery and identification  $114 per hour per HAZMAT team member.
of material. Disposal and environment
clean up. Includes above in addition to
any disposal rates of material and
contaminated equipment and material
used at scene.
Level 4
Itemized Response: You have the option
to bill each incident as an independent
event with custom mitigation rates for
each incident using itemized rates
deemed usual, customary and reasonable
(UCR). These incidents will be billed,
itemized, per trained rescue person,
plus rescue products used.
BACKCOUNTRY OR SPECIAL RESCUE
Itemized Response: Each incident will   $455 for the first response vehicle
be billed with custom mitigation rates  plus
deemed usual, customary and reasonable  $57 per rescue person. Additional rates
(UCR). These incidents will be billed,  of $455 per hour per response vehicle
itemized per apparatus per hour, per    and
trained rescue person per hour, plus    $57 per hour per rescue person.
rescue products used.
CHIEF RESPONSE
This includes the set-up of Command,
and providing direction of the
incident. This could include            $284 per hour
operations, safety, and administration
of the incident.
MISCELLANEOUS/ADDITIONAL TIME ON-SCENE
Engine                                  $455 per hour
Truck                                   $568 per hour
Miscellaneous equipment                 $341
MITIGATION RATE NOTES
The mitigation rates above are average "billing levels", and are typical for
the incident responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted, it will be
itemized and based on the actual services provided.
These average mitigation rates were determined by itemizing costs for a typical
run (from the time a fire apparatus leaves the station until it returns to the
station) and are based on the actual costs, using amortized schedules for
apparatus (including useful life, equipment, repairs, and maintenance) and
labor rates (an average department's "actual personnel expense and not just a
firefighter's basic wage). The actual personnel expense includes costs such as
wages, retirement, benefits, workers comp, insurance, etc.
 
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 19-06 on 7/1/2019
CHAPTER 42 FLOODS
   
42-1   Statutory Authorization
   
42-2   Findings Of Fact
   
42-3   Statement Of Purpose
   
42-4   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
   
42-5   Definitions
   
42-6   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
   
42-7   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
   
42-8   Establishment Of Development Permit
   
42-9   Compliance
   
42-10   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
   
42-11   Interpretation
   
42-12   Warning And Disclaimer Or Liability
   
42-13   Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
   
42-14   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
   
42-15   Permit Procedures
   
42-16   Variance Procedures
   
42-17   Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction-General Standards
   
42-18   Same-Specific Standards
   
42-19   Same-Standards For Subdivision Proposals
   
42-20   Same-Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
42-21   Same-Floodways
   42-22   Same-Penalties For Noncompliance
Editor's note- Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, adopted October 1, 2007, amended Ch.
42 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, Ch.
42 pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Ord. No. 95-03, Arts.
1-5.
Cross reference- Buildings and building regulations, Ch.
14; environment, Ch.
34; health and sanitation, Ch.
46; manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62; natural resources, Ch.
66; planning, Ch.
82; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; subdivisions, Ch.
94; utilities, Ch.
110; zoning, Ch.
122; floodway, F-l district, §
122-506 et seq.; floodway fringe, F-2 district, §
122-536 et seq.
State Law reference- Oklahoma Flood Hazard Mitigation Program, 63 O.S. § 690.1
et seq.; application of the Oklahoma Floodplain Management Act to
municipalities, 82 O.S. § 1618.
Sec 42-1 Statutory Authorization
The legislature of the State has in 82 O.S. §§ 1601-1618, as amended, chapter
23 delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City ordains the
following.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-2 Findings Of Fact
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood loses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-3 Statement Of Purpose
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-4 Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-5 Definitions
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A.   Accessory structures means structures which are on the same parcel of
property as the principle structure and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principle structure (such as garages and storage sheds).
   B.   Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO or AH zone on a
community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or
greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one (1) to three (3)
feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   C.   Area of special flood hazard means the land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year. The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary
map (FHBM). After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for
publication of the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO or
A1-99.
   D.   Base flood means the flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   E.   Base flood elevation means the elevation in feet above mean sea level
of the base flood or one percent (1%) chance flood.
   F.   Basement means any area of the building having its floor sub-grade
(below ground level) on all sides.
   G.   Board means the Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
   H.   Critical feature means an integral and readily identifiable part of a
flood protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the
entire system would be compromised.
   I.   Development means any man-made change in improved and unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or
storage of equipment or materials.
   J.   Elevated building means a non-basement building built, in the case of a
building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of
the elevated floor adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural
integrity of the building during a flood up to the magnitude of the base flood.
In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated
building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of flood waters.
   K.   Existing construction means, for the purposes of determining rates,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective
date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that
date. "Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures."
   L.   Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   M.   Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads),
   N.   Flood or flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   O.   Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community,
on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas
of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.
   P.   Flood insurance study means the official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface
elevation of the base flood, as well as the floodway width, section area and
mean velocity.
   Q.   Floodplain Administrator means a person accredited by the board and
designated by a Floodplain Board, to administer and implement laws and
regulations relating to the management of the floodplains.
   R.   Floodplain Board means the City Council.
   S.   Floodplain or flood-prone area means any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of "flooding").
   T.   Floodplain management means the operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not
limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain
management regulations.
   U.   Floodplain management regulations means zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
State or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   V.   Flood protection system means those physical structural works for which
funds have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   W.   Floodproofing means any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
   X.   Floodway (regulatory floodway) means the channel of a river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface
elevation more than a designated height.
   Y.   Functionally dependent use means a use that cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
   The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are
necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship
building and ship repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or
related manufacturing facilities.
   Z.   Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   AA.   Historic structure means any structure that is:
      1.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
      2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the
interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      3.   Individually listed on a State inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
secretary of interior; or
      4.   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         a.   By an approved State program as determined by the secretary of
the interior; or
         b.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without
approved programs.
   AB.   Levee means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment,
designed and constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to
contain, control, or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from
temporary flooding.
   AC.   Levee system means a flood protection system, which consists of a
levee, or levees, and associated structures, such as closure, and drainage
devices, which are constructed and operated in accordance with sound
engineering practices.
   AD.   Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely
for parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
   AE.   Manufactured home means a structure transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The
term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   AF.   Manufactured home park or subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent
or sale.
   AG.   Mean sea level means, for purposes of the national flood insurance
program, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to
which base flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   AH.   New construction means, for the purpose of determining insurance
rates, structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after
the effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   AI.   New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum,
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   AJ.   Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is:
      1.   Built on a single chassis;
      2.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   AK.   Start of construction (for other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348) includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   AL.   Structure means a walled and roofed building, including a gas or
liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a
manufactured home.
   AM.   Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition
would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
   AN.   Substantial improvement means any reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before "start
of construction" of the structure before "start of construction" of the
improvement. This includes structures that have incurred "substantial damage",
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure."
   AO.   Variance means a grant of relief to a person from the requirement of
these regulations or ordinance when specific enforcement would result in
unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or
development in a manner otherwise prohibited by these regulations. (For full
requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood insurance program
regulations.)
   AP.   Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with this community's floodplain management regulations. A
structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in sections 60.3(b)
(5), (c)(4), (c)(10) or (d)(3) is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided.
   AQ.   Water surface elevation means the height, in relation to the North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplain of coastal or
riverine areas.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-6 Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the City.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-7 Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood
Insurance Study for McClain County, Oklahoma and Incorporated Areas" dated
November 16, 2007, and "The Flood Insurance Study for Cleveland County and
Incorporated Areas" with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) dated
September 26, 2008, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part
of this ordinance. However, the current existing flood damage prevention
ordinance shall remain in effect until September 26, 2008. This amendment will
then become effective on September 26, 2008.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007; Ord. No. 08-08, 8-4-2008)
Sec 42-8 Establishment Of Development Permit
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-9 Compliance
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-10 Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and any
other ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-11 Interpretation
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State
statutes.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-12 Warning And Disclaimer Or Liability
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man- made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on these
regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-13 Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
The City Council shall appoint, by resolution, a Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 CFR (National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-14 Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of these regulations.
   B.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building site,
including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of these regulations.
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, State or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval are required.
   E.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall the necessary interpretation.
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
coordinating agency, the Oklahoma Water Resources Board, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
Section
42-7, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, State
or other source, in order to administer the provisions of Sections
42-17 through 42-22.
   I.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones AI-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one (1) foot at any point within the community.
   J.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zones AI-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one (1) foot, provided
that the community first complies with 44 CFR, chapter 1, section 65.12.
   K.   Become accredited by the board in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601-1618,
as amended.
   L.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the City, determine if the residential and nonresidential structures and
manufactured homes located in the SFHA have been substantially damaged and
enforce the substantial improvement requirement.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-15 Permit Procedures
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of Section
42-18(B);
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with Section
42-14(A).
   B.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of these regulations and
the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials maybe swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-16 Variance Procedures
   A.   The Appeal Board is the Board of Adjustment and shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the State inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section
42-15(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (Section
42-13).
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Pre-requisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances.
      3.   A written notice will be provided to any person granted a variance
to build a structure below the base flood elevation. This notice will inform
the variance applicant that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate
with the increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built
lower than the base flood elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsections (A) through (I) are met; and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
   L.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the Floodplain
Board, accompanied by a filing fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   M.   A copy of any variance issued shall be sent to the OWRB within in
fifteen (15) days of issuance.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-17 Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction-General Standards
In all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-18 Same-Specific Standards
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated at least one (1) foot above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this subsection as
proposed in Section 42- 15(A) is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one (1) foot
above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect,
or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator
that the standard of this subsection as proposed in Section 42-15(A) is
satisfied.
   C.   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot
above grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured homes.
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on a
community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated at least one
(1) foot above the base flood elevation. For the purposes of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for a licensed
installer shall install resisting wind forces and the home and comply with
State law.
      2.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zones AI-30, AR, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites:
         a.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         b.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         c.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         d.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam elevated
at least one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, at and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and
lateral movement. Also, the home shall be installed by a licensed installer and
comply with State law.
      3.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with zones AI-
30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
subsection (D) be elevated so that the bottom of the I-beam of the manufactured
home is at least one (1) foot above the base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement support the manufactured home chassis and also
installed by a licensed installer that complies with State law.
   E.   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones AI-30, AR, and AE on the community's FIRM either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of Section 42-15(A), and the elevation
and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" in subsection (D). A
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   F.   Accessory structure.
      1.   Structure is low valued and represents a minimal investment.
      2.   Structure shall be small and not exceed six hundred (600) square
feet in size.
      3.   Structure shall be unfinished on the interior.
      4.   Structure can be used only for parking and limited storage.
      5.   Structure shall not be used for human habitation (including work,
sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas).
      6.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE or floodproofed.
      7.   Structure is constructed and placed on building site so as to offer
the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      8.   Structure is designed to have low flood damage potential, i.e.
constructed with flood resistance materials.
      9.   Structure is firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
      10.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure.
      11.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE.
      12.   Structure is to be located so as not to cause damage to adjacent
and nearby structures.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-19 Same-Standards For Subdivision Proposals
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with Sections
42-2,
42-3, and
42-4.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of Sections
42-8,
42-15 and
42-17-
42-22.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to Section
42-7 or Section
42-14(H).
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-20 Same-Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in Section 42-
7 are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3) feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flows may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least two (2) feet if no depth number is
specified).
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures;
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least two (2) feet if no depth number is
specified); or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in Section
42-15(A), are satisfied.
   D.   Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. No. 07-14, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 42-21 Same-Floodways
Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in Section
42-7 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection (A) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of Sections
42-17-42-22.
   C.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community complies with all of 44 CFR
chapter 1, section 65.12.
CHAPTER 46 HEALTH AND SANITATION
ARTICLE 46-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 46-2 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY
ARTICLE 46-3 TOBACCO; SMOKING
ARTICLE 46-4 WEEDS; TRASH
Cross reference- Animals, Ch.
10; buildings and building regulations, Ch.
14; environment, Ch.
34; floods, Ch.
42; manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62; natural resources, Ch.
66; utilities, Ch.
110.
State Law reference- Milk and dairy products and milk products plants, 2 O.S. §
7-1.1 et seq.; municipal hospitals, 11 O.S. § 22-104; cleaning and mowing of
property, 11 O.S. § 22-111; health in municipalities, 11 O.S. § 22-120 and 63
O.S. § 1-209; Oklahoma Public Health Code, 63 O.S. § 1-101 et seq.; food, 63
O.S. § 1-1101 et seq.
ARTICLE 46-1 IN GENERAL
   
46-1   Food Service Establishments
Sec 46-1 Food Service Establishments
   A.   The latest edition of the permanent rules of the State Department of
Health pertaining to food service establishments, as codified in title 310,
chapter 256 of the Oklahoma Administrative Code (O.A.C. § 310:256-1-1 et seq.),
promulgated for the purpose of implementing 63 O.S. §§ 1-1101-1-1139, is
adopted as a part of this section as if set out at length in this section.
Three (3) copies of such rules are on file in the office of the City Clerk. The
rules shall govern the definitions; inspection of food service establishments;
the issuance, suspension, and revocation of permits to operate food service
establishments; the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated or misbranded food
or drink; and the enforcement of this section.
   B.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in Section 1-12 of this Code. In addition thereto, any person
convicted of violation may be enjoined from continuing the violation.
(Code 1991, § 8-201)
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18.
ARTICLE 46-2 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY
   
46-26   Health Officer Designated To Enforce Health Ordinances
   
46-27   Interference
   
46-28   Quarantine; Violations
   
46-29   Penalty
Sec 46-26 Health Officer Designated To Enforce Health Ordinances
It is the intent and purpose of the City Council to delegate the enforcement of
the health ordinances of this City to the Health Officer, and any decisions
rendered under this section shall be subject to review by the City Council upon
an appeal from an offender.
(Code 1991, § 8-801)
Cross reference- Officers and employees, §
2-56 et seq.
Sec 46-27 Interference
It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with the
Health Officer or any other officer charged with the enforcement of the health
ordinances of this City.
(Code 1991, § 8-802)
Sec 46-28 Quarantine; Violations
It is unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse or omit to comply
with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule, or regulation of the board
of health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order, direction,
prohibition, rule or regulation.
Code 1991, § 8-803)
State Law reference- Local health services, 63 O.S. § 1-201 et seq.
Sec 46-29 Penalty
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an offense
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violations.
(Code 1991, § 8-804)
ARTICLE 46-3 TOBACCO; SMOKING
DIVISION 46-3-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 46-3-2 USE OF TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS BY MINORS
DIVISION 46-3-3 USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS ON CITY-OWNED PROPERTIES
DIVISION 46-3-1 GENERALLY
   
46-56   State Law Adopted
Sec 46-56 State Law Adopted
   A.   The Smoking in Public Places Act (63 O.S. §§ 1-15521-1-1527), as now or
hereafter amended, is hereby adopted as if set out at length in this section
and any violation of such act shall be punishable as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
   B.   The use of any tobacco-related products, including, but not limited to,
smoking products, chewing tobacco, dip, snuff, etc., is prohibited within all
building/structures regardless if owned, leased or operated by the City and/or
the City public works authority. Additionally, if a designated area is
established, tobacco products shall only be permitted in that designated
location.
(Code 1991, § 8-701; Ord. No. 02-13, § 1, 9-3-2002)
DIVISION 46-3-2 USE OF TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS BY MINORS
   
46-81   Definitions
   
46-82   Furnishing Or Sale Of Tobacco Products And Vapor Products To Minors
   
46-83   Receipt Of Tobacco Products And Vapor Products By Minors
   
46-84   Distribution Of Tobacco Product And Vapor Product Samples
   
46-85   Public Access To Displayed Tobacco Products And Vapor Products
   
46-86   Report Of Violations And Compliance Checks
Editor's note- Ord. No. 14-11, §§ 1-VI, adopted Dec. 1, 2014, did not
specifically amend the Code; inasmuch as it appears to supersede the provisions
of former Div. 2, said ordinance has been codified as set out herein. Former
Div. 2, §§ 46-81-46-84, pertained to use of tobacco by minors, and derived from
Ord. No. 01-07, §§ 1-4, adopted Aug. 6, 2001.
Sec 46-81 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Cigarette means any product that contains nicotine, is intended to be
burned or heated under ordinary conditions of use, and consists of or contains:
      1.   Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance not
containing tobacco;
      2.   Tobacco, in any form, that is functional in the product, which,
because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filter, or its
packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers
as a cigarette.
   The term "cigarette" includes "roll-your-own" (i.e. any tobacco which,
because of its appearance, type, packaging, or labeling is suitable for use and
likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making
cigarettes.) For purposes of this definition of cigarette, nine one-hundredths
(0.09) of an ounce of "roll-your-own" tobacco shall constitute one (1)
individual "cigarette."
   B.   Electronic smoking device means any device that may be used to deliver
any aerosolized or vaporized substance to the person inhaling from the device,
including, but not limited to, an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen, or e-
hookah. Electronic smoking device includes any component, part, or accessory of
the device, and also includes any substance that may be aerosolized or
vaporized by such device, whether or not the substance contains nicotine.
Electronic smoking device does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   C.   Nicotine product means any product that contains nicotine extracted or
isolated from plants, vegetables, fruit, herbs, weeds, genetically modified
organic matter, or that is synthetic in origin and is intended for human
consumption; provided, however, this term shall not include products approved
by the United States Food and Drug Administration for smoking cessation.
   D.   Person means any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation,
trust, or association, however formed.
   E.   Playgrounds means any area used for outdoor play or recreation,
especially by children, and often containing recreational equipment such as
slides and swings.
   F.   Proof of age means a driver's license, license for identification only,
or other generally accepted means of identification that describes the
individual as twenty-one (21) years of age or older and contains a photograph
or other likeness of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   G.   Sample means a tobacco product or vapor product distributed to members
of the public at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product.
   H.   Sampling means the distribution of samples to members of the public in
a public place.
   I.   School means any property, building, permanent structure, facility,
auditorium, stadium, arena or recreational facility owned, leased or under the
control of a public school district or private school or any educational
facility that is accredited by the state of Oklahoma.
      1.   School includes all licensed childcare facilities, kindergartens,
elementary schools, which may include either K-6 or K-8, and all secondary
schools
      2.   School includes any institution within the Oklahoma State System of
Higher Education or any other public or private college or university that is
accredited by a national accrediting body.
   J.   Transaction scan means the process by which a seller checks, by means
of a transaction scan device, the validity of a driver license or other
government-issued photo identification.
   K.   Transaction scan device means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver license or other government-issued photo identification.
   L.   Vapor product means noncombustible products, that may or may not
contain nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. "Vapor products" shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device. "Vapor
products" do not include any products regulated by the United States Food and
Drug Administration under Chapter V of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   M.   Tobacco product means any product that is made from or derived from
tobacco, or that contains nicotine, that is intended for human consumption or
is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled or ingested by any other means, including, but not limited to, a
cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. "Tobacco
product" also means electronic smoking devices and any component or accessory
used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters, rolling papers,
pipes, and liquids used in electronic smoking devices, whether or not they
contain nicotine. Tobacco product does not include drugs, devices, or
combination products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act.
(Ord. No. 14-11, § I, 12-1-2014)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 20-06 Tobacco Vapor Use by Minors on 11/2/2020
Amended by Ord. 23-02 on 1/3/2023
Amended by Ord. 23-07 on 10/5/2023
Sec 46-82 Furnishing Or Sale Of Tobacco Products And Vapor Products To Minors
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
any tobacco, tobacco product or vapor product (see definition) to another
person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age, or to purchase in any manner
tobacco, a tobacco products or vapor product on behalf of any such person. It
shall not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to
handle tobacco, tobacco products or vapor products when required in performance
of the employee's duties.
   B.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco, tobacco
products or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of
appearance that the prospective purchaser may be less than twenty-one (21)
years of age. If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco,
tobacco products or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient who is not under twenty-one (21) years of age, the
failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a violation
of this subsection.
   C.   Any violation of subsection (A) or (B) of this section is an offense
against the City; upon conviction of any such offense, the violator shall be
punished as follows:
      1.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense
within a two (2) year period following the first offense;
      3.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third or
subsequent offense within a two (2) year period following the first offense.
   D.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found guilty
of the violation if such person proves that:
      1.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product or
vapor product presented a driver license or other government-issued photo
identification purporting to establish that such individual was twenty-one (21)
years of age or older; or
      2.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any person cited
for a violation of this section if the person failed to exercise reasonable
diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture appearing
on the driver license or other government- issued photo identification was that
of the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense described
in this subsection does not affect the availability of any other defense under
any other provision of law.
Ord. No. 14-11, § II, 12-1-2014)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 20-06 Tobacco Vapor Used by Minors on 11/2/2020
Sec 46-83 Receipt Of Tobacco Products And Vapor Products By Minors
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age
to purchase, receive, or have in his or her possession a tobacco product, or
vapor product, or to present or offer to any person any purported proof of age
which is false or fraudulent for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any
tobacco product or vapor products. It shall not be unlawful for an employee
under age twenty-one (21) years of age to handle tobacco products or vapor
products when required in the performance of the employee's duties.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsection (A) of this section, the total of any
fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense; and
      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second or subsequent offense
within a one (1) year period following the first offense.
(Ord. No. 14-11, § III, 12-1-2014)
Sec 46-84 Distribution Of Tobacco Product And Vapor Product Samples
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute tobacco
products, nicotine products, vapor products or product samples to any person
under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   No person shall distribute tobacco products, nicotine products, vapor
products or product samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that
is within three hundred (300) feet of any playground, school, or other facility
when the facility is being used primarily by persons under twenty-one (21)
years of age.
   C.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsections A or B of this section, the total of
any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   Not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense;
and
      3.   Not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a third or
subsequent offense.
(Ord. No. 14-11, § IV, 12-1-2014)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 20-06 Tobacco Vapor Used by Minors on 11/2/2020
Amended by Ord. 23-02 on 1/3/2023
Amended by Ord. 24-02 on 3/4/2024
Sec 46-85 Public Access To Displayed Tobacco Products And Vapor Products
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products or vapor products in any manner that allows public access
to the tobacco product or vapor products without assistance from the person
displaying the tobacco product or vapor products or an employee or the owner of
the store. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to retail stores
which do not admit into the store persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
(Ord. No. 14-11, § V, 12-1-2014)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 20-06 Tobacco Vapor Used by Minors on 11/2/2020
Sec 46-86 Report Of Violations And Compliance Checks
   A.   Any conviction for a violation of this article and any compliance
checks conducted by the Police Department pursuant to subsection (B) of this
section shall be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
(ABLE) Commission within thirty (30) days of the conviction or compliance
check. Such reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE
Commission. Convictions shall be reported by the Court Administrator/Court
Clerk or his designee and compliance checks shall be reported by the Chief of
Police or his designee.
   B.   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the
Police Department to assist in enforcement of this article pursuant to the
rules of the ABLE Commission.
   C.   For the purposes of determining second or subsequent violations, both
the offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and the
offenses penalized by the municipality and reported to the ABLE Commission
shall be considered together in such determination.
(Ord. No. 14-11, § VI, 12-1-2014)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 20-06 Tobacco Vapor Used by Minors on 11/2/2020
Amended by Ord. 23-07 on 10/5/2023
DIVISION 46-3-3 USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS ON CITY-OWNED PROPERTIES
   
46-96   Definitions
   
46-97   Prohibition Of Tobacco Products And Vapor Products On Any And All City-
Owned/Operated Property
   
46-98   Postings
   
46-99   Penalties And Enforcement
Sec 46-96 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Indoor area means any indoor city-owned/operated property. An indoor
area includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms,
classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by
employees or the public, and all space between a floor and ceiling that is
predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors,
doorways, open or closed windows, stairways, or the like. The provisions of
this section shall apply to such indoor areas at any given time, whether or not
work is being performed.
   B.   Outdoor area means any covered area, partially covered area or area
open to the sky that is on a property owned or operated by the city.
   C.   Recreational area means any area that is owned, controlled, or used by
the City of Purcell and open to the general public for recreational purposes,
regardless of any fee or age requirement. The term “Recreational Area” includes
but is not limited to parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, sports fields, golf
courses, walking paths, gardens, hiking trails, bike paths, riding trails,
swimming pools, roller- and ice-skating rinks, beaches surrounding lakes and
skateboard parks.
   D.   Tobacco product means any product that contains or is derived from
tobacco and is intended for human consumption excluding drugs or devices
approved for cessation by the United States Good and Drug Administration. This
includes e-cigarettes and vapor products, with or without nicotine.
   E.   Tobacco-free means to prohibit the use of any tobacco product by
anyone, anywhere, at any time.
   F.   Vapor product shall mean noncombustible products, that may or may not
contain nicotine, that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or any other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used
to produce a vapor in a solution or other form. "Vapor products" shall include
any vapor cartridge or any other container with or without nicotine or other
form that is intended to be used with any electronic cigarette, electronic
cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device.
(Ord. No. 14-10, § I, 12-1-2014)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-01 on 2/7/2019
Amended by Ord. 23-06 on 10/5/2023
Sec 46-97 Prohibition Of Tobacco Products And Vapor Products On Any And All
City-Owned/Operated Property
   A.   The possession of tobacco in any form, combustible or non-combustible,
is a public nuisance and a danger to the public health of residents in the
State of Oklahoma. Possession of tobacco or smoking tobacco in any form,
combustible or non-combustible, is hereby prohibited in any and all indoor and/
or outdoor areas and /or properties operated by the City of Purcell.
   B.   All buildings owned, controlled, operated, and/or leased by the City of
Purcell shall be tobacco-free. This includes all forms of tobacco products and
all vapor products.
   C.   This ordinance shall hereby include any vehicles owned and/or leased or
operated by the City of Purcell.
   D.   All indoor and outdoor recreational areas owned and/or leased or
operated by the City of Purcell shall hereby adhere to this ordinance of
tobacco in all forms being 100% prohibited, including vapor products.
   E.   Prohibition applies to every individual person on any and all
government owned, operated, and/or leased property within the City of Purcell,
Oklahoma.
   F.   Prohibition per this ordinance applies at all times.
(Ord. No. 14-10, § II, 12-1-2014)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-01 on 2/7/2019
Amended by Ord. 23-06 on 10/5/2023
Sec 46-98 Postings
   A.   The City of Purcell, Oklahoma will be responsible for posting signs
and/or decals at least 4 inches by two inches ( 4" x 2") in size at each
entrance of any and all city owned, operated, and/or leased property indicating
the property is a tobacco and vapor free.
   B.   The City of Purcell is responsible for posting a sign and/or decal that
is weather resistant and at least fifteen inches by fifteen inches (15" x 15")
and or twelve inches by eighteen inches (12" x 18") in size with at least one
inch (1") lettering at the entrance to any and all outdoor areas owned, leased
or operated by the local government for the City of Purcell, Oklahoma.
(Ord. No. 14-10, § III, 12-1-2014)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-01 on 2/7/2019
Amended by Ord. 23-06 on 10/5/2023
Sec 46-99 Penalties And Enforcement
   A.   Ask all tobacco users to refrain from using any form of tobacco
products, including vapor products, upon observation of anyone violating the
sections of this ordinance.
   B.   Any possession of a combustible or lighted tobacco product is
henceforth declared to be a nuisance to public health.
   C.   Any person who violates this tobacco prohibition ordinance is hereby
guilty of a misdemeanor offense.
   D.   Any person who knowingly violates the provisions of this section shall
be punished by a citation and fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and applicable court costs.
   E.   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Purcell
Police Department, and any official of the Purcell Police Department may
enforce this chapter.
   F.   All local government employees for the City of Purcell will remind
known tobacco users of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 14-10, § IV, 12-1-2014)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-01 on 2/7/2019
Amended by Ord. 23-06 on 10/5/2023
ARTICLE 46-4 WEEDS; TRASH
DIVISION 46-4-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 46-4-2 ACCUMULATION, GROWTH GENERALLY
DIVISION 46-4-3 PROPERTY ABUTTING OR ADJOINING STREETS
DIVISION 46-4-4 LITTER
Cross reference- Vegetation, Ch.
114.
DIVISION 46-4-1 GENERALLY
   
46-111   Definitions
   
46-112   Unlawful To Deposit Rubbish
   
46-113   Burning Refuse Prohibited
   
46-114   Abandonment Of Refrigerators And Iceboxes In Places Accessible To
Children
   
46-115   Penalty
Sec 46-111 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Cleaning means the removal of trash from property.
State Law reference- Cleaning and mowing of property, 11 O.S. § 22-111.
   B.   Excessive weed, grass, and other such vegetation growth means such
vegetation that is growing to a height of six (6) inches or more.
   C.   Litter means any flaming or glowing substances except those which by
law may be placed upon highway rights-of-way, any substance which may cause a
fire and any other used, disposed of, or abandoned bottles, cans, garbage,
street cleanings, appliances, paper wrappings, cigarette butts, cardboard, yard
clippings, wood, grass, bedding, or waste paper. The term "litter" also means
to place, throw, drop, dump, deposit, discard, scatter any used or disposed of
object or substance that is referred to in this definition.
   D.   Owner means the owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls
of the County Treasurer.
   E.   Trash means any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper,
combustible materials, rubbish, offal, or waste, or matter of any kind or form
which is uncared for, discarded, or abandoned.
   F.   Weed includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve (12) inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs,
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of such weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
      5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
      6.   Is dead or diseased.
The term "weed" shall not include tended crops on land zoned for agricultural
use which are planted more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from a parcel
zoned for other than agricultural use.
(Code 1991, §§ 8-102, 8-111(A); Ord. No. 03-01, § 1, 2-3-2003)
Editor's note- Conflicts and redundancies within the above section have been
eliminated by deleting language from the definition of "litter." Any changes
in, or additions to, the wording of the definition of "litter" that may be made
by the City may also require changes in other definitions in the above section.
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 22-111(D) and 21 O.S. §
1753.3.
Sec 46-112 Unlawful To Deposit Rubbish
It is unlawful for any person to throw, place, or deposit any rubbish, trash,
slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, tree, brush, or any other refuse
or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley, or in any ditch or watercourse,
or upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in this City.
(Code 1991, § 8-109)
Sec 46-113 Burning Refuse Prohibited
It is unlawful to bum refuse, including all kinds of rubbish and trash, within
the City limits, except as may be permitted in the City's fire code. "Refuse"
is defined as garbage, rubbish, and all other wastes generated by a trade,
business, industry, building operation, or household. Any burning within the
City shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Oklahoma Clean Air Act
(27A O.S. § 2-5-101 et seq.) and the Air Pollution Control Rules adopted
thereunder.
(Ord. No. 01-11, § 1, 8-6-2001)
Cross reference- Fire prevention and protection, Ch.
38.
Sec 46-114 Abandonment Of Refrigerators And Iceboxes In Places Accessible To
Children
Any person, firm, or corporation who abandons or discards in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox, or ice chest of a capacity of
one and one-half (1 1/2) cubic feet or more which has an attached lid or door
which may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch or who,
being the owner, lessee, or manager of such place, knowingly permits such
abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, or ice chest to remain in such
condition shall be deemed negligent as a matter of law and shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Code 1991, § 8-115)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1208.
Sec 46-115 Penalty
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
article or who shall allow any premises occupied to become unsanitary, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as
provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 8-116)
DIVISION 46-4-2 ACCUMULATION, GROWTH GENERALLY
   
46-141   Accumulation Of Trash, Growth, Or Standing Weeds Unlawful
   
46-142   Reports Of Violations
   
46-143   Receipt Of Report; Hearing And Notice; Summary Abatement
   
46-144   Right Of Entry, Work Done By Employees Or Contract
   
46-145   Determination And Assessments Of Costs
   
46-146   Council May Designate Officer To Perform Duties; Appeals
Sec 46-141 Accumulation Of Trash, Growth, Or Standing Weeds Unlawful
   A.   It is unlawful for any owner or any other person in possession or
control of any lot, tract, or parcel of land situated wholly or in part within
the corporate limits of the City to allow trash to accumulate or weeds to grow
or stand upon such premises, and it is the duty of such owner to remove or
destroy any such trash or weeds.
   B.   The provision of this division shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes.
   C.   The provisions of this Division shall not apply to any undeveloped land
of three (3) or more acres in all zoning classifications (excluding A-
l agricultural) that is being used for harvesting hay as long as the vegetation
being harvested from the undeveloped land meets all of the following
requirements, to-wit:
      1.   Shall not exceed thirty-six (36) inches in height;
      2.   Shall not be left in a dead state in excess of six (6) inches in
height that would create a fire hazard;
      3.   There shall be a buffer area of at least fifty (50) feet from the
edge of all adjoining developed properties with the growth in the buffer area
not to exceed twelve (12) inches in height;
      4.   All areas between the edge of the driving surface and the property
lines, known as street right of ways, shall be maintained so as to not exceed
twelve (12) inches in height;
      5.   Vegetation shall not be allowed to grow to a height that creates
sight problems at any intersection;
      6.   All bales of hay shall be removed from the property within seventy-
two (72) hours of baling;
      7.   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions
of this subsection or who allow any premises occupied to become unsanitary,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
as provided in Section 1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 8-101; Ord. No. 17-10, § 1, 7-3-2017)
State Law reference- Authority to prohibit trash, weeds on property, 11 O.S. §
22-111(C).
Sec 46-142 Reports Of Violations
   A.   Any officer or employee of the City who discovers an accumulation of
trash or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any
premises within the limits of the City shall report the condition to the City
Manager if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the premises appear to
be:
      1.   Detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and
the community;
      2.   A hazard to traffic; or
      3.   A fire hazard to property.
   B.   The code enforcement officer or any other person authorized by the City
Manager shall, on a citizen's complaint or upon his own notice, inspect subject
property. If his inspection reveals a violation of one (1) or more of the
conditions in subsections (A)(1) through (3) of this section, he shall report
his findings to the City Manager.
(Code 1991, § 8-103)
State Law reference- Cleaning and mowing of property, procedures and powers, 11
O.S. § 22-111.
Sec 46-143 Receipt Of Report; Hearing And Notice; Summary Abatement
   A.   Upon receiving the report provided for in Section
46-142, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any reliable source, the
City Manager shall cause property within the City limits to be cleaned of trash
and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the following
procedure:
      1.   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
County Treasurer's office before the City Manager holds a hearing or takes
action. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property of
trash or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate, and
the notice shall further state that unless such work is performed within ten
(10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the City and a
notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk against the property for
the costs due and owing the City. At the time of mailing of notice to the
property owner, the City shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. However, if the property owner cannot be located within
ten (10) days from the date of mailing by the City Manager, notice may be given
by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication, as defined
in 11 O.S. § 1-102, one (1) time not less than ten (10) days prior to any
hearing or action by the City. If the City Manager anticipates summary
abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the provisions of subsection (B) of
this section, the notice, whether by mail, posting, or publication, shall state
that any accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the
owner's property occurring within six (6) months from and after the date of
this notice may be summarily abated by the City Manager; that the costs of such
abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and that a lien may be imposed
on the property to secure such payment, all without further prior notice to the
property owner.
      2.   The owner of the property may give written consent to the City
authorizing the removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds or grass. By
giving written consent, the owner waives the owner's right to a hearing by the
City.
      3.   A hearing may be held by the City Manager to determine whether the
accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused the property
to become detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and the
community or a hazard to traffic or creates a fire hazard to the danger of
property.
      4.   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard and that the property would be benefitted by the removal of
such conditions, the agents of the City are granted the right of entry on the
property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and performance of
the necessary duties as a governmental function of the City. Immediately
following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the City Clerk shall file a
notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the property and the work
performed by the City and stating that the City claims a lien on the property
for the cleaning or mowing costs.
      5.   The City Manager shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning
and mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The City Clerk shall forward by mail
to the property owner specified in subsection (A)(1) of this section a
statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If the cleaning and mowing
is done by the City, the cost to the property owner for the cleaning and mowing
shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment
required. If the cleaning and mowing is done on a private contract basis, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      6.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the City Clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer and the same shall be levied on
the property and collected by the County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by
law. Once certified by the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to the
County Treasurer, except as otherwise provided for in this section. Until fully
paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the
property owner from and after the date the cost is certified to the County
Treasurer. In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the cost is certified to the County
Treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and
special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully
paid. At the time of collection the County Treasurer shall collect a fee of
five dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee shall be deposited to
the credit of the general fund of the County. If the County Treasurer and the
City agree that the County Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the
City may pursue a civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon by an action in personam against the property owner and an action in
rem to foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed
from the surface interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be
subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon
receiving payment, if any, the City Clerk shall forward to the County Treasurer
a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
   B.   If a notice is given by the City Manager to a property owner ordering
the property within the City limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass
to be cut or mowed in accordance with the procedures provided for in subsection
(A) above, any subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass
growth on the property occurring within a six (6) month period may be declared
to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior notice to
the property owner. At the time of each such summary abatement the City shall
notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice
shall state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten (10) days
after the date of mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as
provided for in subsection (A) of this section. Unless otherwise determined at
the hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be determined and collected as
provided for in subsections (A)(5) and (A)(6) of this section. This subsection
shall not apply if the records of the County Clerk show that the property was
transferred after notice was given pursuant to subsection (A) of this section.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes or to railroad property under the
jurisdiction of the State Corporation Commission. However, the City Manager may
cause the removal of weeds or trash from property zoned and used for
agricultural purposes pursuant to the provisions of this section but only if
such weeds or trash pose a hazard to traffic and are located in or within ten
(10) yards of the public rights-of-way at intersections.
(Code 1991, §§ 8-104, 8-107)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 22-111.
Sec 46-144 Right Of Entry, Work Done By Employees Or Contract
   A.   Upon finding that the condition of the property constitutes a detriment
or hazard as specified in Section
46-142 and that the property would be benefitted by the removal of such
conditions, the agents of the City are granted the right of entry on the
property to remove trash, mow weeds or grass, and perform necessary duties as a
governmental function.
   B.   The work ordered to be performed under Section
46-143 may be done by the employees of this City under supervision of the City
or it may be let by contract in the manner for letting other contracts.
(Code 1991, § 8-105)
Sec 46-145 Determination And Assessments Of Costs
Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under Section
46-144, the City Manager shall prepare a report on the cost thereof. Such
report may be itemized as to each tract of property involved as follows: labor,
machinery rental or depreciation, fuel and supplies, cost of notice and other
allowable costs. The City Clerk shall forward a statement and demand payment of
the total cost by mail to the owner of the property at the address shown by the
current tax rolls in the office of the treasurer of the county in which the
property lies.
(Code 1991, § 8-106)
Sec 46-146 Council May Designate Officer To Perform Duties; Appeals
The City Council hereby designates the City Manager or his designee to carry
out the duties of the City Council in this article. The property owner shall
have a right of appeal to the City Council from any order of the administrative
officer. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the
City Clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order is rendered.
(Code 1991, § 8-108)
DIVISION 46-4-3 PROPERTY ABUTTING OR ADJOINING STREETS
   
46-171   Maintenance And Upkeep Of Property By Adjoining Property Owner Or
Occupant; Penalty For Violation
Sec 46-171 Maintenance And Upkeep Of Property By Adjoining Property Owner Or
Occupant; Penalty For Violation
   A.   The owner or occupant of any property abutting or adjoining any street
of City of Purcell shall mow and keep mowed any grass, weeds, or similar
vegetation in that area between the roadway and the owner's or occupant's
property line and between sidewalks and the roadway as well as between the edge
of any street and the right-of-way for such street. The premises shall be
maintained in compliance with applicable city codes and regulations. Such
vegetation shall not be allowed to exceed a height of twelve (12) inches above
the ground.
   B.   The owner or occupant of any property abutting or adjoining any alley
of City of Purcell shall mow and keep mowed any grass, weeds, or similar
vegetation in that area between the middle of the alley and the property line.
The premises shall be maintained in compliance with applicable city codes and
regulations. Such vegetation shall not be allowed to exceed a height of twelve
(12) inches above the ground.
   C.   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses, or neglects to mow and keep
mowed vegetation as provided in subsection (A) or (B) of this section after
receiving at least ten (10) days; notice from the city manager, or his
designee, to do so is guilty of an offense against the city and subject to a
fine in accordance with Section
1-12, as amended. Every day the owner or occupant fails, refuses, or neglects
to mow and keep mowed such vegetation after the expiration of the ten (10)
days' notice shall be and is a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 17-13, § 1, 7-3-2017)
Editor's note- Ord. No. 17-13, § 1, adopted July 3, 2017, amended § 46-171 in
its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 46-171 pertained to
maintenance and upkeep of property by adjoining property owner; penalty for
violation and derived from Ord. No. 99-36, §§ 1, 2, adopted Dec. 6, 1999.
DIVISION 46-4-4 LITTER
   
46-196   Generally
   
46-197   Throwing From Motor Vehicles
   
46-198   Accumulation On Property
Sec 46-196 Generally
It is unlawful for any person to litter upon the public streets, alleys,
roadways, curbs, gutters, and sidewalks of the City, except in public
receptacles, or upon any real property owned or occupied by another. The
preceding sentence shall not apply to the lawful use of a refuse receptacle nor
to any object or substance placed beside a public road for collection by a
garbage or collection agency or deposited upon or within public property
designated by a State or local government or any of its agencies as an
appropriate place for such deposit if the person making the deposit is
authorized to use the property for such purpose.
(Code 1991, § 8-111(B))
Sec 46-197 Throwing From Motor Vehicles
It is unlawful for any person to throw any litter from any automobile or other
motor vehicle being operated and driven upon and over the streets, alleys, and
roadways of the City.
The operator or driver of the vehicle, unless any other person in the vehicle
admits to or is identified as having committed a violation of the preceding
sentence, shall be punishable for such violation.
(Code 1991, § 8-112)
Cross reference- Traffic and vehicles, Ch.
106.
Sec 46-198 Accumulation On Property
   A.   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation occupying any real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow
litter to accumulate upon such real property or premises or on the sidewalk in
front of such property or premises.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation occupying any real
property, either as tenant or owner, to allow accumulated litter to be carried
from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements, or otherwise, to any
adjoining or other real estate not so owned or occupied by the offender.
(Code 1991, § 8-113)
CHAPTER 50 HUMAN RELATIONS
ARTICLE 50-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 50-2 FAIR HOUSING
Cross reference- Administration, Part 2.
State Law reference- Discrimination in housing, 25 O.S. § 1451 et seq.
ARTICLE 50-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 50-2 FAIR HOUSING
DIVISION 50-2-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 50-2-2 FAIR HOUSING BOARD
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 25 O.S. §§ 1451, 1453; joinder of
additional or substitute respondent, 25 O.S. § 1502.5.
DIVISION 50-2-1 GENERALLY
   
50-26   Purposes; Construction
   
50-27   Definitions
   
50-28   Discriminatory Housing Practices
   
50-29   Exempt Practices And Acts
Sec 50-26 Purposes; Construction
The general purposes of this article are:
   A.   To secure for all people equal access to housing in all neighborhoods;
and
   B.   To preserve the public safety, health, and welfare.
(Code 1991, § 5-1001)
Sec 50-27 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Age. An unlawful discriminatory practice because of age is an act
prohibited by Section 50-28 against a person at least eighteen (18) years of
age or older solely on that basis.
   B.   Aggrieved person means any person who:
      1.   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice; or
      2.   Believes that he will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   C.   Board means the Fair Housing Board.
   D.   Complainant means a person or the board, who files a complaint pursuant
to Section 50-28 of this article.
   E.   Conciliation means the attempted resolution of issues raised by a
complaint or by the investigation of the complaint through informal
negotiations involving the aggrieved person, the respondent, and the board.
   F.   Discriminatory housing practice means an act prohibited by Section 50-
28.
   G.   Dwelling means:
      1.   Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residency by one (1)
or more families; or
      2.   Any vacant land that is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure by subsection (A) of this definition.
   H.   Elderly person means any natural person fifty-five (55) years of age or
older.
   I.   Familial status. A discriminatory act is committed because of familial
status only if the act is committed because the person who is the subject of
discrimination is:
      1.   Pregnant;
      2.   Domiciled with an individual less than eighteen (18) years of age in
regard to whom the person:
         a.   Is the parent or legal custodian; or
         b.   Has the written permission of the parent or legal custodian for
domicile with that person; or
      3.   In the process of obtaining legal custody of an individual less than
eighteen (18) years of age.
   J.   Family includes a single individual.
   K.   Handicap means a mental or physical impairment that substantially
limits at least one (1) major life activity when there is a record of such an
impairment or the individual is regarded as having such an impairment. The term
"handicap" does not include current illegal use of or addiction to any drug or
illegal or federally controlled substance. The terms "an individual with a
handicap" and "handicap" do not apply to an individual because of sexual
orientation or the sexual preference of the individual or because that
individual is a transvestite.
   L.   Housing for older persons, as used in this article, means housing:
      1.   That the board determines is specifically designed and operated to
assist elderly persons pursuant to a federal or State program;
      2.   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons sixty-two (62) years
of age or older; or
      3.   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person fifty-
five (55) years of age or older per unit as determined by rules of the State
Human Rights Commission.
   M.   Person means and includes one or more individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint- stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries, the State, and all
political subdivisions and agencies thereof.
   N.   Respondent means:
      1.   The person accused of a violation of this article in a complaint of
a discriminatory housing practice; or
      2.   Any person identified by the board as an additional or substitute
respondent pursuant to or an agent of an additional or substitute respondent.
   O.   Restrictive covenant means any specification limiting the transfer,
rental, or lease of any dwelling because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, age, handicap, or familial status.
   P.   To rent means and includes to lease, to sublease, to let, or to
otherwise grant for a consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by
the occupant.
(Code 1991, §§ 5-1004, 5-1006)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec 50-28 Discriminatory Housing Practices
It shall be an unlawful discriminatory housing practice, for any person, or for
any agent or employee of such person:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of any housing or otherwise make
unavailable or deny any housing because of race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, age, familial status, or handicap;
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of housing or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with any housing because of race, color, religion,
gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap;
   C.   To make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published any
notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of
housing that indicates any preference, limitation, discrimination, or intention
to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination because of race,
color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap;
   D.   To represent to any person, for reasons of discrimination, that any
housing is not available for inspection, sale, or rental because of race,
color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap
when such housing is in fact so available;
   E.   To deny any person access to, or membership or participation in, a
multiple- listing service, real estate brokers' organization, or other service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings or discriminate against a person in the terms or conditions of
access, membership, or participation in such an organization, service, or
facility because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age,
familial status, or handicap;
   F.   To include in any transfer, sale, rental, or lease of housing any
restrictive covenant that discriminates or for any person to honor or exercise,
or attempt to honor or exercise any discriminatory covenant pertaining to
housing because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age,
familial status, or handicap;
   G.   To refuse to consider the income of both applicants when both
applicants seek to buy or lease housing because of race, color, religion,
gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap;
   H.   To refuse to consider as a valid source of income any public
assistance, alimony, or child support awarded by a court when that source can
be verified as to its amount, length of time received, regularity, and receipt
because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, familial
status, or handicap;
   I.   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges relating to the obtaining or use of financial assistance for the
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance of any
housing because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age,
familial status, or handicap;
   J.   To discharge, demote, or discriminate in matters of compensation or
working conditions against any employee or agent because of obedience of such
employee agent to the provisions of this article;
   K.   To solicit or attempt to solicit the listing of housing for sale or
lease by door-to- door solicitation, in person, by telephone, or by
distribution of circulars if one (1) of the purposes is to change the racial
composition of the neighborhood;
   L.   To knowingly induce or attempt to induce another person to transfer an
interest in real property or to discourage another person from purchasing real
property by representations regarding the existing or potential proximity of
real property owned, used, or occupied by person of any particular race, color,
religion, gender, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap or to
represent that such existing or potential proximity shall or may result in:
      1.   The lowering of property values;
      2.   A change in the racial, religious, or ethnic character of the block,
neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
      3.   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      4.   A decline in quality of the schools serving the area;
   M.   To refuse to rent or lease housing to a blind, deaf, or handicapped
person on the basis of the person's use or possession of a bona fide, properly
trained guide, signal, or service dog;
   N.   To demand the payment of an additional nonrefundable fee or an
unreasonable deposit for rent from a blind, deaf, or handicapped person for
such dog. Such blind, deaf, or handicapped person may be liable for any damage
done to the dwelling by such dog;
   O.   To discriminate:
      1.   In the sale or rental or otherwise make available or deny a dwelling
to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
         a.   That buyer or renter;
         b.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available; or
         c.   Any person associated with that buyer or renter;
      2.   Against any person in the terms, conditions, or privileges of sale
or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or facilities in
connection with the dwelling because of a handicap of:
         a.   That person;
         b.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         c.   Any person associated with that person;
   P.   For purposes of handicap discrimination in housing pursuant to this
article, the term "discrimination" includes:
      1.   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, provided that such person also provides a surety
bond guaranteeing restoration of the premises to their prior condition, if
necessary to make the premises suitable for non- handicapped tenants;
      2.   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      3.   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multifamily dwellings for first occupancy thirty (30) months after the date of
enactment of the Federal Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-
430), a failure to design and construct those dwellings in a manner that:
         a.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by a handicapped person;
         b.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide enough to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         c.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            (1)   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            (2)   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            (3)   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            (4)   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about those spaces;
         d.   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American
National Standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people, commonly cited as "ANSI A 117.1,"
suffices to satisfy the requirements of subsection (P)(3)(c) of this section.
         e.   As used in this subsection, the term "covered multifamily
dwellings" means:
            (1)   Buildings consisting of four (4) or more units if the
buildings have one (1) or more elevators; and
            (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four (4)
or more units;
         f.   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others;
   Q.   1.   A person whose business includes engaging in residential real
estate- related transactions may not discriminate against a person in making a
real estate-related transaction available or in the terms or conditions of a
real estate-related transaction because of race, color, religion, gender,
handicap, familial status, national origin, or age;
      2.   In this section, "residential real estate-related transaction"
means:
         a.   Making or purchasing loans or providing other financial
assistance:
            (1)   To purchase, construct, improve, repair, or maintain a
dwelling; or
            (2)   To secure residential real estate; or
         b.   Selling, brokering, or appraising residential real property.
(Code 1991, § 5-1002)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 25 O.S. § 1452.
Sec 50-29 Exempt Practices And Acts
   A.   Nothing provided for in this division shall:
      1.   Prohibit a religious organization, association, or society, or any
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or
in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society from
limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of housing which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purposes to persons of the same religion or from
giving preferences to such persons, unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color, or national origin. Nor shall anything in
this division apply to a private membership club which is a bona fide club and
which is exempt from taxation pursuant to section 501(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1954;
      2.   Prohibit a religious organization, association, or society or a
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or
in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society from:
         a.   Limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings that it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion; or
         b.   Giving preference to persons of the same religion, unless
membership in the religion is restricted because of race, color, or national
origin;
      3.   Prohibit a private club not open to the public that, as an incident
to its primary purpose, provides lodging that it owns or operates for other
than a commercial purpose from limiting the rental or occupancy of that lodging
to its members or from giving preference to its members;
      4.   Prohibit a person engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals
of real property from taking into consideration factors other than race, color,
age, religion, gender, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      5.   Affect a reasonable local or State restriction on the maximum number
of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling or restriction relating to health
or safety standards;
      6.   Prevent or restrict the sale, lease, rental, transfer, or
development of housing designed or intended for the use of the handicapped;
      7.   Affect a requirement of nondiscrimination in any other State or
federal law;
      8.   Prohibit the transfer of property by will, intestate succession, or
by gift.
   B.   Nothing provided for in this division relating to familial status
applies to housing for older persons.
   C.   Application of division.
      1.   Subject to subsection (C)(2) of this section, this division does not
apply to:
         a.   The sale or rental of a single-family house sold or rented by an
owner if:
            (1)   The owner does not:
               (A)   Own more than three (3) single-family houses at any one
time; or
               (B)   Own any interest in or is there owned or reserved on his
behalf, pursuant to any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right
to any part of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three (3)
single-family houses at any one (1) time; and
            (2)   The house was sold or rented without:
               (A)   The use of the sales or rental facilities or services of a
real estate broker, agent, or salesman licensed pursuant to the Oklahoma Real
Estate License Code (59 O.S. § 858-101 et seq.) or of an employee or agent of a
licensed broker, agent, or salesman, or the facilities or services of the owner
of a dwelling designed or intended for occupancy by five (5) or more families;
or
               (B)   The publication, posting, or mailing of a notice,
statement, or advertisement prohibited by Section
50-28; or
         b.   The sale or rental of rooms or units in a dwelling containing
living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four (4)
families living independently of each other, if the owner maintains and
occupies one (1) of the living quarters as the owner's residence;
      2.   The exemption in subsection (C)(1)(a) of this section applies to
only one (1) sale or rental in a twenty-four (24) month period, if the owner
was not the most recent resident of the house at the time of the sale or
rental.
(Code 1991, § 5-1003)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 25 O.S. § 1453.
DIVISION 50-2-2 FAIR HOUSING BOARD
   
50-56   Created
   
50-57   Duties
   
50-58   Procedure
   
50-59   Notices
Cross reference- Boards, commissions, and committees, §
2-86 et seq.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 25 O.S. §§ 1502, 1502.2.
Sec 50-56 Created
There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board of the City, composed of the
members of the City Council.
(Code 1991, § 5-1004)
Sec 50-57 Duties
It is the duty of the Fair Housing Board to:
   A.   Initiate, receive, and investigate complaints charging unlawful housing
practices;
   B.   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, make findings of
fact, and publish its findings of fact; and
   C.   Adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary within the limits
of this division and carry out the purposes and provisions of this division.
(Code 1991, § 5-1005)
Sec 50-58 Procedure
   A.   Any person aggrieved by discriminatory practice prohibited by this
article may file with the Fair Housing Board a complaint in writing under oath.
The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be aggrieved, shall
state the name and address of the person alleged to have violated the
provisions of this article, shall further set forth the particulars of the
violation, and may include such other information as may be required by the
board. Complaints filed under this section must be filed within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the alleged violation has occurred or terminated,
whichever is later, and failure to file within the time shall be considered a
waiver of the application of this section. The board may issue a complaint on
its own initiative at any time it is within the knowledge of the board that a
person has violated any of the provisions of this article.
   B.   The board shall investigate each complaint filed with the board and
shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means of conference and
conciliation. Sixty (60) days shall be allowed for the purpose of
investigation, conference and conciliation. If within sixty (60) days after the
complaint is filed it is determined by the board or a member of the board or
the staff that there is no reasonable cause to believe that the respondent has
engaged in a discriminatory practice, the board shall issue an order dismissing
the complaint and shall furnish a copy of the order to the complainant, the
respondent, the attorney general and such other public officers and persons as
the board deems proper. If the board takes no action within ninety (90) days of
the filing of the complaint, it shall be considered as dismissed.
   C.   If conference or conciliation does not result in compliance with this
article, the board shall cause to be issued and served in the name of the City,
a written notice, together with a copy of the complaint, requiring the
respondent to answer the charges of the complaint at a hearing before the board
at a time and place to be specified in the notice.
   D.   At the hearing, provided for in subsection (C) of this section, the
complaint shall be heard by the board. At the hearing, the complainant or
person aggrieved may appear in person and by counsel and the respondent may
file a written answer to the complaint and may appear in person or by legal
counsel. The board, when conducting any hearing pursuant to this action, may
permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and the testimony taken at the
hearing shall be under oath and shall be transcribed at the request of either
party or at the direction of the board. If the board finds at the hearing that
the respondent has engaged in any discriminatory practice or practices
prohibited by this article, it shall state its findings of fact and shall so
certify the matter to the City Attorney for appropriate action. No prosecution
shall be brought under this section except upon such certification. If the
board, upon hearing, finds that respondent has not engaged in any
discriminatory practice, it shall state its findings of fact and shall issue
and file an order dismissing the complaint. The board shall establish rules and
regulations to govern and expedite and effectuate the foregoing procedure and
shall maintain the files provided for in this section.
(Code 1991, § 5-1006)
Sec 50-59 Notices
Any and all notices required under the provisions of this article to be served
upon any person may be served personally on such person or by mailing a copy
thereof by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested to the
most current business or residence address of such person.
CHAPTER 54 LAW ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE 54-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 54-2 POLICE DEPARTMENT
ARTICLE 54-3 IMPRISONMENT
Cross reference- Administration, Ch.
2; civil emergencies, Ch.
26; courts, Ch.
30; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, Ch.
70; offenses against public authority, §
70-196 et seq.; traffic and vehicles, Ch.
106.
State Law reference- Police departments, 11 O.S. § 34-101 et seq.; Oklahoma
Police Pension and Retirement System, 11 O.S. § 50-101 et seq.; process, 12
O.S. § 51 et seq.; falsely assuming to be police officer, 21 O.S. § 264;
arrest, 22 O.S. § 171 et seq.; council on law enforcement education and
training, 70 O.S. § 3311.
ARTICLE 54-1 IN GENERAL
   
54-1   Definitions
Sec 54-1 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Emergency means a sudden and unforeseeable occurrence or condition
either as to its onset or its extent of such severity or magnitude that
immediate response or action is necessary to assist law enforcement agencies
having jurisdiction at the scene of the emergency to carry out their functions.
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 34-103.
ARTICLE 54-2 POLICE DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 54-2-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 54-2-2 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
DIVISION 54-2-1 GENERALLY
   
54-26   Chief Of Police-Position Created
   
54-27   Same-Duties
   
54-28   Police Officers
   
54-29   Controlled Dangerous Substances
   
54-30   Emergency Duties In Other Jurisdictions
Sec 54-26 Chief Of Police-Position Created
There is a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of Police. All
police officers are officers of the City.
(Code 1991, § 13-301)
Cross reference- Officers and employees, §
2-56 et seq.
Sec 54-27 Same-Duties
The Police Department shall apprehend, arrest, and turn over to proper
authorities or otherwise bring to justice, as provided by law, all violators of
the ordinances of the City or of federal or State law; shall suppress all
riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies which may come to its knowledge and
generally keep the peace; shall serve all warrants, writs executions, and other
processes properly directed and delivered to the department; and in all
respects shall perform all duties pertaining to the offices of police officers.
(Code 1991, § 13-302)
Sec 54-28 Police Officers
Police officers shall perform such duties as shall be required of them by the
Chief of Police, City ordinances, federal, State and County regulations, and
any other actions required in the maintenance of good order and public peace.
Unless the City Manager delegates any such appointive authority to the Chief of
Police, employees or officers deemed necessary shall be appointed by the City
Manager after consultation with the Chief of Police.
(Code 1991, § 13-303)
Cross reference- Officers and employees, §
2-56 et seq.
Sec 54-29 Controlled Dangerous Substances
The Police Department may, upon written request from business establishments,
schools, or other public facilities, use its personnel and canine service to
search for controlled dangerous substances for a fee as set by the City.
Editor's note- The above section is based on Ordinance No. 88-2067.
Sec 54-30 Emergency Duties In Other Jurisdictions
   A.   Approval is hereby given for service of members of the regular Police
Department of this City as police officers of any other jurisdiction in an
emergency situation in the State not more than one hundred (100) miles distant
from this City when such service is requested by the Mayor or his designee or
by the Chief of Police or his designee of the jurisdiction.
   B.   Requests for service under this section shall be made in writing or by
telephone, or other means of communications, to the City Manager and in his
absence, the Mayor, who, if he determines that the request can be granted
consistently with the continuance of the proper police protection to the
inhabitants of the City, and after consultation with the Chief of Police, shall
direct the Chief of Police to furnish the number of officers requested and to
arrange their transportation to the requesting jurisdiction.
(Code 1991, § 13-304)
DIVISION 54-2-2 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
   
54-56   Record Of Property Taken From An Accused, Found Or Stolen
   
54-57   Disposition Of Property; Recordation
   
54-58   Property In Possession Of The Chief Of Police For Longer Than Thirty
(30) Days
   
54-59   Property Found By Anyone Other Than Public Official
   
54-60   Certain Property In Possession Of Police More Than Ninety (90) Days
   
54-61   Property Of Deceased Person
   
54-62   Retention Of Records
Sec 54-56 Record Of Property Taken From An Accused, Found Or Stolen
All personal property which has been found, stolen, or taken from the
possession of any prisoner or person suspected of or charged with a crime which
comes into the possession of any police officer and is not known to belong to
some person laying claim thereto shall be delivered to the Chief of Police by
the police officer who came into the possession of the personal property. The
Chief of Police shall make a record in a record book to identify the property
with the date and the circumstances and the receipt thereof, the name of the
person from whom it was taken, and the place where it was found.
(Code 1991, § 13-501)
Sec 54-57 Disposition Of Property; Recordation
The personal property record provided for in Section 54-56 shall disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold or the date of delivery to a
City department, the name of the department and the name of the supervisor of
the department; or the date, place, and method of its destruction and the name
of three (3) officers witnessing the destruction; or the date of the delivery
to the next of kin or legally appointed representative of a deceased person,
and the name and address of the next of kin or legal representative.
(Code 1991, § 13-502)
Sec 54-58 Property In Possession Of The Chief Of Police For Longer Than Thirty
(30) Days
Any unclaimed personal property, or property whose ownership is not
satisfactorily established, other than animals, which has remained in the
possession of the Chief of Police for a period of thirty (30) days, shall be
sold and the proceeds of the sale shall be paid to the City Treasurer, except
such personal property which at the option of the City Manager can be more
advantageously used by any City department. The City Treasurer shall issue his
receipt therefor and deposit the proceeds into the credit of the general fund
of the City. Ten (10) days before sales of unclaimed property, the Chief of
Police or his designee shall sign and have posted in at least four (4) public
places in the City (one of which shall be the front door of the police station)
notices of the time, place, and manner of the sale and examples of types of
property. If the City Manager delivers any of the personal property to the
Chief of Police for use in any City department, he shall so instruct the Chief
of Police in writing and the chief shall thereupon deliver the personal
property designated to that City department and shall keep record of its
disposition.
(Code 1991, § 13-503)
Sec 54-59 Property Found By Anyone Other Than Public Official
Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or a
public employee of the City which is delivered to any police officer for
identification and which is not claimed or identified within thirty (30) days
shall, within ten (10) additional days thereafter, if requested by the finder,
be returned to the finder and a record of such disposal shall be made. If any
such property shall be sold as provided in this section and the owner thereof
shall take and recover possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid
therefor shall be returned to the purchaser upon verified claim being
submitted, approved, and allowed by the proper officers.
(Code 1991, § 13-504)
Sec 54-60 Certain Property In Possession Of Police More Than Ninety (90) Days
Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which has remained in the
possession of the Chief of Police for a period of ninety (90) days and:
   A.   Is in the nature of contraband;
   B.   Is property which would constitute a health hazard if stored for a long
period;
   C.   Is an unsafe or illegal weapon;
   D.   Is a partially filled container of liquor or beer;
   E.   Cannot be sold;
   F.   Cannot be used by any department or the City; or
   G.   Is of trivial value in the opinion of the Chief of Police;
   shall be destroyed on order of the Chief of Police. The destruction of any
personal property under the provisions of this section shall be witnessed by at
least three (3) members of the City Police Department, and these witnesses must
sign a certificate of destruction which shall list all property destroyed, a
general description of same, the date, time, place, and manner of the
destruction.
(Code 1991, § 13-505)
Sec 54-61 Property Of Deceased Person
The personal property of a deceased person shall be delivered only to the next
of kin of such person or to the legally appointed representative of his estate.
If the personal property is claimed by the legally appointed representative of
the estate of the deceased, a certified copy of the order of the district court
appointing such person shall be deemed sufficient authority to support the
claim. If the personal property is claimed by the next of kin, the claimant
shall furnish an affidavit to the effect that he is the person entitled to
possession of the property, and the affidavit shall be deemed sufficient
authority to support the claim. If personal property of a deceased person
remains unclaimed for a period of ninety (90) days, it shall be disposed of in
the appropriate manner provided in this article.
(Code 1991, § 13-506)
Sec 54-62 Retention Of Records
Unless otherwise specified, all records of property under this article shall
remain on file for a period of five (5) years.
(Code 1991, § 13-507)
ARTICLE 54-3 IMPRISONMENT
   
54-86   Imprisonment; Work By Prisoners
   
54-87   Medical Care Of Prisoners
Sec 54-86 Imprisonment; Work By Prisoners
   A.   All sentences of imprisonment shall be executed by the Chief of Police,
and any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of the City and
sentenced to imprisonment shall be confined in the jail, farm, or workhouse of
the City, in the discretion of the court, for the time specified in the
sentence.
   B.   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy
thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be delivered to the Chief of Police, the
Sheriff of the County, or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   C.   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may
be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets, avenues,
alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or property. For each day of
such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving one (1) day of
imprisonment under his sentence.
   D.   The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of the City Council,
shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the department in
charge of the place where the work is to be performed shall himself or by some
person designated by him oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the Chief
of Police shall make provisions therefor.
(Code 1991, § 6-132)
Sec 54-87 Medical Care Of Prisoners
   A.   When a defendant is incarcerated in the McClain County Jail under this
or any other ordinance of the City, the City shall not be responsible for
preexisting medical conditions and shall only be responsible for those
conditions that arise subsequent to arrest which come about due to the actions
or omissions of the City police officers or other City employees.
   B.   As used in this section, the term "preexisting medical conditions"
means those illnesses beginning or injuries sustained before a person is in the
peaceable custody of the City's officers.
   C.   An inmate receiving medical care for a preexisting condition or a
condition not caused by the acts or omissions of the City shall be liable for
payment of the cost of care, including, but not limited to, medication, medical
treatment, and transportation costs, for or relating to the condition requiring
treatment.
(Ord. No. 97-12, § 4, 1-5-1997)
CHAPTER 58 LIBRARY
   
58-1   Established
   
58-2   Donations
Charter reference- Library board, Art. III, § 4.
Cross reference- Administration, Ch.
2; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
State Law reference- Municipal libraries, 11 O.S. § 31-101 et seq.
Sec 58-1 Established
A public library is hereby established in the City.
(Code 1991, § 11-201)
Sec 58-2 Donations
All donations for the library shall be to the City for the use of the City, and
the Library Board members may be special trustees therefor.
(Code 1991, § 11-202)
CHAPTER 62 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS
ARTICLE 62-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 62-2 MOBILE HOME, MANUFACTURED HOME, AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
Cross reference- Buildings and building regulations, Ch.
14; environment, Ch.
34; floods, Ch.
42; health and sanitation, Ch.
46; planning, Ch.
82; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; subdivisions, Ch.
94; utilities, Ch.
110; vegetation, Ch.
114; zoning, Ch.
122; mobile home residential, R-5 district, §
122-221 et seq.
State Law reference- Industrial housing, adoption of federal standards, 63 O.S.
§ 1084.
ARTICLE 62-1 IN GENERAL
   
62-1   Purpose
   
62-2   Definitions
   
62-3   Freestanding Mobile Homes
   
62-4   Nonresidential Mobile Homes And Trailers
   
62-5   One- And Two-Family Dwelling Regulations
   
62-6   Notices; Hearings; Orders
   
62-7   Treatment Of Modular Housing
Sec 62-1 Purpose
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations for areas within
the corporate boundaries of the City, wherein the location and development of
manufactured homes, mobile homes, mobile home parks, trailer parks,
manufactured and mobile home subdivisions, and modular housing units or
additions may be safety continued and encouraged.
   B.   The regulations set forth in this chapter are designed to promote
stable neighborhoods, prevent health and safety hazards, and encourage the
economical and orderly development and operation of manufactured home and
mobile home parks and subdivisions, trailer parks, and modular housing units
and additions.
(Code 1991, § 5-1101)
Sec 62-2 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Building Official means the Building Official of the City or his
authorized agent.
   B.   Manufactured home means a residential dwelling built in accordance with
the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974,
42 USC, 5401 et seq., and rules promulgated pursuant thereto and the rules
promulgated by the Oklahoma Used Motor Vehicle and Parts Commission pursuant to
47 O.S. § 582. The three (3) types of manufactured home are defined as meeting
all of the requirements listed in subsections (A) through (C) of this
definition and are to be considered separate from mobile or modular housing:
      1.   A type I manufactured home shall:
         a.   Have more than one thousand (1,000) square feet of occupied space
in a typically double section or larger multi section unit, with a minimum
width of twenty (20) feet;
         b.   Be placed on a permanent foundation and be anchored to the ground
in accordance with the City's foundation code or other adopted foundation
requirements and the manufacturer's specifications;
         c.   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with City
approved installation standards;
         d.   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed;
         e.   Have all utilities connected in accordance with the appropriate
City codes and the manufacturer's specifications;
         f.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         g.   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         h.   Have a one hundred (100) square foot minimum attached, covered,
or enclosed parking garage which is compatible with other housing in the
immediate area. All parking and driveway areas shall be hard-surfaced;
         i.   Have legitimate front and rear doors; and
         j.   Have a minimum eave width of six (6) inches.
      2.   A type II manufactured home shall:
         a.   Have more than seven hundred twenty (720) square feet of occupied
space in a single, double, expando or multi-section unit (including those with
add-a-room units);
         b.   Be placed on a permanent foundation and be anchored to the ground
in accordance with the City's foundation code or other adopted foundation
standards and the manufacturer's specifications;
         c.   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with City
approved installation standards;
         d.   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed;
         e.   Have utilities connected in accordance with appropriate City
codes and the manufacturer's specifications;
         f.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         g.   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-built
residences in the community and neighborhood;
         h.   Have a one hundred (100) square foot minimum attached, covered,
or enclosed parking garage which is compatible with other housing in the
immediate area. All parking and driveway areas shall be hard-surfaced;
         i.   Have legitimate front and rear doors; and
         j.   Have a minimum eave width of six (6) inches.
      3.   A type III manufactured home shall:
         a.   Have more than four hundred (400) square feet of occupied space
in a single, double, expando or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-
room units);
         b.   Be placed on a support system in accordance with City approved
installation standards;
         c.   Be enclosed with foundation siding or skirting in accordance with
City approved installation standards;
         d.   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with the manufacturer's
specifications and the City's appropriate, adopted code; and
         e.   Have utilities connected in accordance with appropriate City
requirements and the manufacturer's specifications.
   C.   Mobile home means a structure, transportable in one (1) or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width
or forty (40) body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is three
hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained thereon. The term
"mobile home" shall not include any mobile home which is owned by a religious
corporation or society and is used exclusively for religious purposes.
   D.   Mobile home, dependent, means any mobile home which does not have a
flush toilet and a bath or shower. For purposes of regulation under this
chapter, a dependent mobile home shall be considered to be the same as a travel
trailer, unless otherwise specified.
   E.   Mobile home, freestanding, means any mobile home or travel trailer not
located in a mobile home park or travel trailer park, respectively, licensed by
the City or in an approved mobile home subdivision.
   F.   Mobile home park means any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more
mobile homes, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   G.   Mobile home space means any plot of ground within a mobile home park
designed for the accommodation of one (1) mobile home and not located on a
mobile home sales lot.
   H.   Mobile home subdivision means any subdivision designed and intended for
residential use, where residence is in mobile homes or manufactured home
exclusively, and lots are sold for occupancy.
   I.   Modular home means any factory-fabricated, transportable building unit,
not built upon a permanent chassis, designed to be used by itself or to be
incorporated with similar units on a permanent foundation. The term "modular
home" is intended to apply to major assemblies and does not include
prefabricated sub- elements incorporated into a structure at the site nor does
it include any type of manufactured home as defined in this section. Any
modular home must meet U.S. government modular home certification standards.
See also Section 62-7 of this chapter.
   J.   Nonresidential mobile trailer means any vehicle having the basic
characteristics of either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used
for other than residential purposes and is not being offered for sale as
indicated by a clearly displayed sign on or near the trailer.
   K.   Park means a mobile home or travel trailer park.
   L.   Public water or sewer system means any such system built and owned by
or dedicated to and accepted by the City. All other such systems shall be
deemed private systems.
   M.   Service building means any building housing toilet and bathing
facilities for men or women and may also include buildings containing laundry
facilities and other facilities.
   N.   Subdivision means a manufactured home or mobile home subdivision,
unless otherwise indicated.
   O.   Travel trailer means any vehicular-portable structure, built on a
chassis, used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, or vacation
use, and, when factory-equipped for the road, having a body width not exceeding
eight (8) feet and an overall length not exceeding forty (40) feet, including
the hitch or coupling.
   P.   Travel trailer park means any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more
travel trailers, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   Q.   Travel trailer space means a plot of ground within a travel trailer
park designed for accommodation of one (1) travel trailer.
(Code 1991, § 5-1102)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1102.
Sec 62-3 Freestanding Mobile Homes
   A.   No freestanding mobile home or travel trailer shall be permitted within
the corporate limits of the City unless it is being offered for sale or parked
for storage or located within an appropriate zoning district which permits such
freestanding location.
   B.   Except for mobile homes or travel trailers within regular commercial
mobile home or travel trailer sales lots, each such freestanding mobile home or
travel trailer offered for sale must be clearly marked as such and shall not be
occupied for either living or sleeping purposes.
   C.   Freestanding mobile homes or travel trailers located within regular
commercial mobile home or travel trailer sales lots need not be individually
marked for sale or removed within one hundred twenty (120) days if not sold.
   D.   A property owner shall not store, nor permit to be stored, more than
one (1) mobile home or travel trailer on a residential lot. Such mobile home or
travel trailer shall not be stored in any required front or side yard or public
utility easement nor shall such mobile home or travel trailer project beyond
the front of any building.
(Code 1991, § 5-1103)
Sec 62-4 Nonresidential Mobile Homes And Trailers
   A.   Permit required for use. No nonresidential mobile home or trailer shall
be permitted in the City unless a permit for its operation is approved by the
City Council, except as specified herein below. Such permit shall specify the
permitted use of the non-residential mobile home or trailer, the location of
such operation and the termination date of the permit.
   B.   No permit in violation of laws. No permit shall be issued for a use
which would violate any local, State, or federal law, ordinance, code, or
regulation.
   C.   Fee. A fee set by the City Council shall be charged for each six (6)
month nonresidential mobile home or trailer permit; provided that no
governmental or nonprofit agency shall be charged such a fee.
   D.   Exception for construction projects and sales lots. Operation of
nonresidential mobile homes or trailers by contractors or construction projects
for which building permits have been issued or which are otherwise approved by
governmental units is permitted during the term of such construction project
without the issuance of a permit. Such exemption from such permit shall also be
granted for the use of a mobile home or trailer for an office in a mobile home
or trailer sales lot; provided, that such officer structure remains included
among those units offered for sale and that all local utility codes and
regulations are met.
   E.   Construction of section. This section shall not be construed as
permitting or authorizing the permanent location of any nonresidential mobile
home or trailer within the City.
(Code 1991, § 5-1104; Ord. No. 91-2102, § 2, 5-6-1991)
Sec 62-5 One- And Two-Family Dwelling Regulations
The following one- and two-family dwelling regulations shall apply to
manufactured homes located in the City:
   A.   Every manufactured home or mobile home located in either a mobile home
park, a subdivision, or as a freestanding home shall meet the provisions of the
one- and two-family dwelling code of the City, except as otherwise provided in
this section or as may be otherwise provided in other provisions of this Code
of Ordinances.
   B.   Every manufactured home or mobile home shall contain the following
minimum gross floor area of habitable space:
      1.   One hundred fifty (150) square feet for one (1) or two (2)
occupants;
      2.   One hundred (100) additional square feet for the third occupant; and
      3.   Seventy-five (75) square feet additional for each additional
occupant thereafter.
   C.   Habitable space in a mobile or manufactured home shall have a minimum
ceiling height of seven (7) feet over fifty percent (50%) of the floor area.
The floor area where the ceiling height is less than five (5) feet shall not be
considered in computing minimum gross floor area.
   D.   A mobile or manufactured home shall have a safe and unobstructed
primary exit and an emergency exit located remote from the primary exit.
   E.   Rooms occupied for sleeping purposes must contain at least sixty (60)
square feet of floor space, if used by more than one (1) person, and at least
forty (40) square feet is used by one (1) person.
   F.   Dependent mobile homes shall not be required to have a flush toilet,
bath, or shower.
   G.   The one- and two-family dwelling code shall not apply to travel
trailers insofar as floor area, flush toilet, bath, or shower ceiling height is
concerned.
(Code 1991, § 5-1105)
Sec 62-6 Notices; Hearings; Orders
   A.   Notification. Whenever the Building Official or Health Officer
determines that violations of pertinent regulations exist, he shall notify the
permittee of the alleged violation. The notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      3.   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      4.   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed ninety (90) days, for the
performance of any act it requires; and
      5.   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require. The
notice or order shall be deemed as properly served upon owner or agent when a
copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his last known address.
   B.   Hearing. Any person affected by any notice issued under this section or
resulting regulation may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the City Council, acting as a board of appeals. Such person shall file
with the Building Official a written request for such hearing, setting forth
briefly the grounds for such request within ten (10) days after the notice was
served. The filing of such request shall stay the notice of suspension of
permits, except in cases of orders issued under subsection (C) of this section.
The hearing shall be held at the next City Council meeting for which the agenda
has not been completed or at a later meeting if so requested by the petitioner,
should the Building Official determine that sufficient cause for such delay
exists.
   C.   Action upon findings. After the hearing, the Building Official or
Health Officer shall compile the findings of the City Council as to compliance
with this chapter and pertinent regulations and shall issue an order in writing
sustaining, modifying, or withdrawing the prior notice which shall be served as
provided in this section. Upon failure to comply with such order, the permit of
the park shall be revoked.
   D.   Relief from finding of Council. Any person aggrieved by the decision of
the City Council may seek relief in the district court.
   E.   Emergencies. Whenever the Building Official or Health Officer finds
that an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public
health, he may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the
existence of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he
may deem necessary to meet the emergency, including the suspension of the
permit. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall
be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but, upon petition to the City Council, shall be
afforded a hearing at the next regular meeting even if the agenda has been
completed. The provisions of subsections (C) and (D) of this section shall be
applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Code 1991, § 5-1108)
Sec 62-7 Treatment Of Modular Housing
   A.   Manufactured or mobile homes shall be considered as permanent site or
modular housing only when it meets the following federal certification criteria
and the City criteria:
      1.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is designed for
erection or installation on a site-built permanent foundation. A site-built
permanent foundation is a system of supports, including piers, either partially
or entirely below grade, which is:
         a.   Capable of transferring all loads imposed upon the structure into
soil or bedrock without failure;
         b.   Placed at an adequate depth below grade to prevent frost damage;
and
         c.   Constructed of concrete or grouted concrete blocks.
      2.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is designed as a
manufactured home and can be installed on a site-built permanent foundation.
      3.   The manufacturer must certify that the structure is designed and
manufactured to comply with the City's adopted building code, plumbing code,
mechanical code, and electrical code, or equivalent.
      4.   Must meet the type I manufactured home specifications listed in
Section 62-2.
      5.   Must be zoned R-5 (mobile home residential).
   B.   Such certification shall be proof of the housing unit's status as a
modular unit or manufactured home. Without such certification, any manufactured
home unit shall be considered a mobile home and treated as such for purposes of
regulation.
(Code 1991, § 5-1123; Ord. No. 99-27, § 1, 9-7-1999; Ord. No. 99-29, § 1, 10-4-
1999)
ARTICLE 62-2 MOBILE HOME, MANUFACTURED HOME, AND
TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
   
62-26   Inspection Of Parks
   
62-27   Supervision
   
62-28   Permits; Requirements; Procedures; Fees
   
62-29   Location And Design Of Parks
   
62-30   Service Buildings For Travel Trailer Parks
   
62-31   Sewage Disposal For Mobile Home Parks
   
62-32   Water Supply For Parks
   
62-33   Refuse Disposal For Parks
   
62-34   Insect And Rodent Control
   
62-35   Electricity; Exterior Lighting
   
62-36   Fuels; Power Sources
   
62-37   Fire Protection
   
62-38   Alterations And Additions
   
62-39   Registration Of Owners And Occupants
   
62-40   Subdivisions
Sec 62-26 Inspection Of Parks
   A.   The Health Officer and the Building Official are hereby authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of mobile home,
manufactured home, and travel trailer parks located within the City in order to
perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of such
parks and of the general public.
   B.   The Health Officer and the Building Official shall have the power to
inspect the outside premises of private or public property for the purposes of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
chapter or of regulations promulgated there under.
   C.   The Health Officer and the Building Official shall have the power to
inspect the register containing a record of all homes and occupants using the
park.
   D.   It is the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner thereof,
or his agent or employee, access to any part of such mobile home, manufactured
home, or travel trailer park, or their premises, at reasonable times for the
purpose of making, ordering, or inspecting such repairs or alterations as are
necessary to effect compliance with this chapter or with any lawful regulations
adopted thereunder or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter.
(Code 1991, § 5-1107)
Sec 62-27 Supervision
The permittee or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker shall be charged at
all times with keeping the park, its facilities, and equipment in a clean,
orderly, and sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be
answerable, with the permittee, for the violation of any provision of this
chapter to which the licensee or permittee is subject.
(Code 1991, § 5-1109)
Sec 62-28 Permits; Requirements; Procedures; Fees
   A.   Annual permit. It is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, or
operate any mobile home, manufactured home, or travel trailer park within the
limits of the City unless he holds a valid permit issued annually and jointly
by the Building Official and Health Officer of the City in the name of such
person for the specific park, except that the maintenance or operation of an
existing park on May 6, 1991, may be continued under a temporary permit for
such period of time and under such conditions as are hereinafter described.
   B.   Transfer of ownership. Application shall be made to the Building
Official acting jointly with the Health Officer in writing within twenty-four
(24) hours after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise disposed of
interest in or control of any such park. Such notice shall include the name and
address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such park.
   C.   Application for permit. Application for original permits shall be in
writing, signed by the applicant, and accompanied by an affidavit of the
applicant as to the truth of the application and shall contain the following:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal
description of the park;
      3.   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   D.   Application for renewals. Applications for renewals of permits shall be
made in writing by the holder of the license and shall contain the any change
in the information submitted since the time the original license was issued or
the latest renewal granted.
   E.   Submission of plan. Prior to the issuance of a permit, a complete plan
of the park shall be submitted to the Building Official, and such plan shall
show:
      1.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      2.   The number, locations, and size of all mobile home, manufactured
home, or travel trailer spaces;
      3.   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips, and
recreational areas;
      4.   The location of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      5.   The location and size of utility lines and treatment facilities; and
      6.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the park.
   F.   Notice to correct violation conditions; suspension of permit. Whenever
the Health Officer or the Building Official finds conditions existing in
violation of this chapter, or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he
shall give notice, in writing, to the person to whom the permit was issued
that, unless such conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable
period of time specified in the notice, the permit will be suspended. At the
end of such period, not to exceed ninety (90) days, the Health Officer or the
Building Official shall re-inspect such park, and, if such conditions or
practices have not been corrected, he shall suspend the permit and give notice,
in writing, of such suspension to the person to whom the permit was issued.
Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease operation of such
park except as may be provided hereinafter.
   G.   Request for hearing. Any person whose permit has been denied or
suspended or who has received notice from the Health Officer or the Building
Official that his permit will be suspended unless certain conditions or
practices at the park are corrected may request and shall be granted a hearing
on the matter before the City Council. When no petition for such hearing shall
have been filed within ten (10) days following the day on which notice of
suspension was served, such permit shall be deemed to have been automatically
revoked at the expiration of such ten (10) day period.
   H.   Compliance of existing parks. Mobile home and travel trailer parks in
existence on May 6, 1991, which have concrete pads indicating the location of
mobile home, manufactured home, or travel trailer spaces need not comply with
those sections of this chapter which would require the moving of concrete pads.
They must, however, comply with all other requirements and any park expansion
shall be in full compliance with provisions of this chapter.
   I.   Initial or temporary permit fee. The City Clerk shall charge and
collect for each mobile home, manufactured home, or travel trailer park an
initial permit or temporary permit fee per space. The initial permit or
temporary permit shall expire one (1) year from the date of issue, unless
renewed upon such conditions as the City Council may by ordinance direct.
   J.   Posting of temporary permit. The permit shall be conspicuously posted
in the office of, or on the premises of, the park at all times.
(Code 1991, §§ 5-1106, 5-1110)
Sec 62-29 Location And Design Of Parks
The following provisions shall govern the location and design of parks:
   A.   Parks shall be of three (3) types:
      1.   Mobile home parks;
      2.   Travel trailer parks; and
      3.   Mixed mobile home and travel trailer parks.
   No travel trailer shall be located in a mobile home park. No mobile home
shall be located in a travel trailer park. In a mixed park, separate areas
shall be reserved for mobile homes and for travel trailers. No mobile home
shall be permitted in the travel trailer sector. No travel trailer shall be
permitted in the mobile home sectors.
   B.   All parks shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded to
ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water. Drainage shall
not endanger any water supply.
   C.   The minimum area of any park shall be five (5) acres. Parks in
existence on May 6, 1991, can continue to operate with less than five (5) acres
area. If the park is to be expanded, it must at that time have a minimum area
of five (5) acres.
   D.   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than ten (10)
homes per gross acre for a mobile home park and no more than fifteen (15)
travel trailers per gross acre for a travel trailer park. Area used for sewage
treatment facilities shall not be included in density computations. Mobile home
spaces shall be at least thirty (30) feet wide where pads are closest to
driveways. Travel trailer spaces shall be at least twenty-five (25) feet wide
where travel trailers are located closest to the driveway.
   E.   Every space shall be clearly defined. All mobile homes and travel
trailers shall be parked in such spaces so that at the nearest point they shall
be ten (10) feet from the service road, five (5) feet from the rear lot line,
and at least ten (10) feet from any other home or travel trailer.
   F.   It is unlawful to locate any mobile home or travel trailer less than
twenty-five (25) feet from any public street or highway right-of-way or so that
any part of such home or travel trailer will obstruct any roadway or walkway of
such park.
   G.   It is unlawful to permit a mobile home to occupy a travel trailer
space, a travel trailer to occupy a mobile home space, and for any mobile home
or travel trailer to be located in a park unless in a space designated
specifically for that type of mobile home or travel trailer.
   H.   All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a sealed-surface driveway of not
less than twenty (20) feet in width, if on-street parking is prohibited, and
twenty-six (26) feet in width, if on street parking is permitted on one (1)
side of the street only. Driveways must have unobstructed access to a public
street or highway.
   I.   In all parks existing on May 6, 1991, parking on or adjacent to the
street within the park is permissible as long as it does not obstruct free
movement of traffic. Whether or not a safety hazard exists is a question to be
determined by the Planning Commission, with final appeal to the City Council.
If upon final appeal before the City Council it is determined that a safety
hazard does in fact exist, the park concerned will be required to comply with
the following provisions:
      1.   In new mobile home parks, at least two (2) clearly defined parking
spaces will be provided for each space either on or adjacent to the space; and
      2.   In new travel trailer parks, at least one (1) parking space shall be
provided for each space either on, or adjacent to, the space.
   J.   All roadways within a park which are to be dedicated to the City shall
be at least asphalt-oil-rock sealed and surfaced. All roadways not dedicated to
the City shall be at least crushed limestone.
   K.   In developed areas of the City, new parks must abut and have their
major means of ingress and egress on at least a secondary thoroughfare.
Wherever possible, major access shall be along a primary thoroughfare.
   L.   All parks shall have and maintain a buffer planting strip not less than
three (3) feet in width along all park boundaries not bordering a street. Such
strip shall consist of not less than one (1) row of shrubs spaced not more than
eight (8) feet apart which will eventually grow to a height of not less than
twelve (12) feet. Such strip may also consist of an earthen berm or a fence at
least six (6) feet in height or a combination of berm, landscaping, or fence.
(Code 1991, § 5-1111)
Sec 62-30 Service Buildings For Travel Trailer Parks
   A.   Each travel trailer park shall be provided with at least one (1)
service building adequately equipped with flush-type toilet fixtures and other
sanitary facilities.
   B.   Service buildings shall:
      1.   Be located twenty-five (25) feet or more from any travel trailer
space;
      2.   Be of permanent construction and be adequately lighted;
      3.   Be of moisture-resistant material to permit frequent washing and
cleansing;
      4.   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of
seventy (70) degrees Fahrenheit during cold weather and to supply adequate hot
water during time of peak demands; and
      5.   Have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings effectively
screened.
   C.   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained
in a clean condition and kept free of any condition that will menace the health
of any occupant or the public or constitute a menace.
(Code 1991, § 5-1112)
Sec 62-31 Sewage Disposal For Mobile Home Parks
The following provisions shall govern the disposal of sewage generated by
mobile home parks:
   A.   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop
sinks, and laundries in service and other buildings within the park shall be
discharged into a public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system, or
private sewer and lagoon system of such construction and in such manner as
approved by the State Department of Environmental Quality and in accordance
with all applicable ordinances of the City.
   B.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a three (3) inch
sewer connection at least four (4) inches above the surface of the ground. The
sewer connection shall be protected by a concrete collar of at least four (4)
inches thick and have a minimum outside diameter of twenty-four (24) inches.
Connection between the mobile home drain and the sewer must be watertight and
self- draining. Mobile homes with fixtures from which back siphonage may occur
shall not be connected to the park's water system until the defect has been
corrected.
   C.   In the event that a public sewer system is or becomes available within
three hundred (300) feet of a mobile home park or travel trailer park,
connection must be made to the public system within one hundred eighty (180)
days.
   D.   The design of private sewage treatment facilities shall be based on the
maximum capacity of the park. Effluents from sewage treatment facilities shall
not be discharged into any watershed of the City Lake or any other waters of
the State. The disposal facilities shall be located where they will not create
a nuisance or health hazard to the mobile home park or to the owner or
occupants of any adjacent property. The State Department of Environmental
Quality must approve the type of treatment proposed and the design of any
disposal facilities and sewer systems prior to construction.
   E.   Every mobile home occupying a mobile home park space shall tie onto the
park sewage system and shall dump any accumulated waste into the system. Every
travel trailer shall dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle provided in
the travel trailer park upon entering and upon leaving the park. Such
receptacles must be approved by the State Department of Environmental Quality.
Any other dumping of accumulated waste within the City is prohibited.
   F.   The monthly sewerage charge shall be based on the maximum mobile home
or travel trailer capacity of the park. The park operator shall, by the tenth
of each month, notify the City Clerk of the maximum number of mobile home
spaces in use at any one (1) time during the previous month. The City Clerk
shall then adjust the sewerage fee to the actual use of the park. Should the
park operator fail to notify the City Clerk of the prior month's actual usage
of travel trailer or mobile home spaces, the sewerage fee shall be levied on
the maximum capacity of the park.
   G.   Sewer connections shall be watertight. Park permittees shall maintain
travel trailer and mobile home connections to sewer and water systems in good
condition and shall be responsible that there is no sewage or water leakage on
the park premises.
   H.   No sewer connections shall be made to travel trailer spaces.
(Code 1991, § 5-1113)
Sec 62-32 Water Supply For Parks
The following provisions shall govern the supply of water to all parks
regulated by this chapter:
   A.   An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of two hundred fifty
(250) gallons per day per space. Where a public supply of water of such quality
is available within three hundred (300) feet or becomes available within three
hundred (300) feet, connection shall be made thereto within one hundred twenty
(120) days and its supply shall be used exclusively. Where private water
supplies must be developed, the Health Officer must approve the location,
construction, and development of both the water well and pipe system and
connections. No private source other than a water well shall be used.
   B.   The water system of the mobile home park shall be connected by pipes to
all buildings and all spaces. Each mobile home shall be provided with a cold
water tap at least four (4) inches above the ground. An adequate supply of hot
water shall be provided at all times in the service buildings for all bathing,
washing, cleansing, and laundry facilities.
   C.   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with
State and local law. The water piping system shall not be connected with non-
potable or questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back siphonage. All water connections shall be weather-
tight.
   D.   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be of
a type and in locations approved by the Health Officer.
   E.   Individual water service connections which are provided for direct use
by mobile homes or travel trailers shall be of such construction that they will
not be damaged by the parking of such mobile homes or travel trailers. The park
system shall be adequate to provide twenty (20) pounds per square inch of
pressure at all mobile home or travel trailer connections.
   F.   Provisions shall be made within one hundred fifty (150) feet of such
travel trailer space to supply water for travel trailer reservoirs.
   G.   No well casing, pumps, pumping machinery, or suction pipes shall be
located in any pit, room, or space extending below ground level nor in any room
or space above ground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed, unless such
rooms, whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the
surface. All floors shall be watertight and sloped from the pump pedestal to
the drain and floors shall extend at least two (2) feet from the well in all
directions. The pedestal shall not be less than twelve (12) inches above the
floor. This shall not be construed as prohibiting submersible pumps.
   H.   All water storage reservoirs shall be watertight and constructed of
impervious material. All overflow and vents of such reservoirs shall be
effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be
constructed with overlapping covers so as to prevent the entrance of
contaminated material. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any
pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up.
   I.   Underground stop and wastecocks shall not be installed on any
connections.
   J.   No water well shall draw water from any formation reserved to the City
for its use except as may be otherwise permitted by ordinances of the City.
   K.   No water connections shall be made to travel trailer spaces.
(Code 1991, § 5-1114)
Sec 62-33 Refuse Disposal For Parks
The following provisions shall govern the disposal of refuse in parks regulated
by this chapter:
   A.   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in the park shall be so
managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution.
   B.   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, watertight, rodentproof
containers which shall be located within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any
mobile home space or travel trailer space. Containers shall be so provided in
sufficient numbers and capacity to properly store all refuse.
   C.   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent containers from
being tipped to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them. Lids for containers shall be permanently connected to
racks or holders with chains or other flexible materials.
   D.   All refuse shall be collected at least once weekly or as otherwise
required by the Health Officer. Where City refuse collection is not available,
the park operator shall either employ a private agency or provide this service.
All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or covered
containers.
   E.   Where City or other private disposal service is not available, the park
operator shall dispose of the refuse by transporting to an approved disposal
site, as directed by the Health Officer. Refuse shall be buried only at
locations and by methods approved by the Health Officer and in accordance with
the ordinances of the City.
   F.   When City refuse disposal service is available, it must be used.
(Code 1991, § 5-1115)
Sec 62-34 Insect And Rodent Control
The following provisions shall apply to the control of insects and rodents in
parks governed by this chapter:
   A.   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health as
required by the Health Officer shall be applied in the park.
   B.   Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the Health Officer or
for fly or mosquito breeding areas which cannot be controlled by other, more
permanent measures.
   C.   The Health Officer may require the park operator to take suitable
measures to control other insects and obnoxious weeds.
   D.   Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for rodents shall
not be
permitted in the park.
   E.   When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to be in the park,
the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by the Health Officer
to exterminate them.
(Code 1991, § 5-1116)
Sec 62-35 Electricity; Exterior Lighting
   A.   An electrical outlet supplying at least sixty (60) amperes shall be
provided for each mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all
applicable State and local electrical codes and ordinances. Such electrical
outlets and extension lines shall be grounded and weatherproofed. Plug
receptacles shall also be grounded and weatherproofed. No power supply line
shall be permitted to lie on the ground, and no main power line shall be
suspended less than eighteen (18) feet above the ground, unless otherwise
approved by the Building Official;
   B.   Streets and driveways within mobile home and travel trailer parks shall
be lighted with street lights meeting the current standards of the Illuminating
Engineering Society of North America or one-half (1/2) candlepower, whichever
is higher.
(Code 1991, § 5-1117)
Sec 62-36 Fuels; Power Sources
   A.   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile or
manufactured homes shall be of accountable material, as determined by the
Building Official, and shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in
place. All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in place
and shall not be located inside or beneath the home or less than five (5) feet
from any home exit. All such installations shall meet the requirements of
applicable adopted codes.
   B.   All power used for residential or nonresidential purposes within the
park shall be derived from electricity, natural gas or solar energy sources.
(Code 1991, § 5-1118)
Sec 62-37 Fire Protection
   A.   Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish, and other flammable
materials.
   B.   Where the water supply system does not provide at least six (6) inch
water mains, there shall be provided a two (2) inch, frost-protected water
riser within three hundred (300) feet of each home or building.
   C.   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking or heating
equipment intended for such purposes.
(Code 1991, § 5-1119)
Cross reference- Fire prevention and protection, Ch.
38.
Sec 62-38 Alterations And Additions
   A.   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the park shall be
made in accordance with applicable local regulations.
   B.   Skirting of mobile homes is permissible but areas enclosed by such
skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or
create a fire hazard.
   C.   A building permit issued by the City Clerk shall be required before any
construction on a mobile home space or any structural addition or alteration to
the exterior of a home takes place. No construction, addition, or alteration to
the exterior of a home located in a park shall be permitted unless of the same
type of construction or materials as the home affected. All construction,
additions, or alterations shall be in compliance with applicable local and
State laws. No permit shall be required for the addition of steps, canopies,
awnings, or antennas.
(Code 1991, § 5-1120)
Sec 62-39 Registration Of Owners And Occupants
   A.   Each park permittee shall keep a register containing a record of all
mobile home and travel trailer owners and occupants located within the park.
The register shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the owner or occupant of each home and any
motor vehicle;
      2.   The make, model, year, and license of each mobile or manufactured
home and motor vehicle;
      3.   The state, territory, or country issuing such license; and
      4.   The date of arrival and of departure of each home.
   B.   The park shall keep the register available for inspection at reasonable
times by law enforcement officers, public health officials, and other officials
whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the
register. The register record of each occupant registered shall not be
destroyed for a period of one (1) year following the date of departure of the
registrant from the park.
(Code 1991, § 5-1121)
Sec 62-40 Subdivisions
The following provisions shall apply to manufactured or mobile home
subdivisions:
   A.   Manufactured home and mobile home subdivisions shall comply with
Chapters
94 and
122, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   B.   The minimum size of such a subdivision shall be five (5) acres.
   C.   No residences except mobile or manufactured homes shall be permitted in
such a subdivision.
   D.   Minimum effective lot widths in the subdivision shall be fifty (50)
feet, measured at the front building line, and minimum lot areas shall be five
thousand (5,000) square feet, consistent with the adopted zoning regulations.
At least a five (5) foot side yard shall be provided on each lot beyond any
home and additions thereto. In areas not serviced by a public sewer, the
minimum additional lot area shall be determined by the Health Officer on the
basis of safe and sanitary sewer service. The effective lot width of a mobile
or manufactured home lot shall be determined for interior lots by measuring at
right angles across the lot from one (1) diagonal side line to the other and
for comer lots the measurement shall be made at right angles from diagonal
having the greatest divergence from perpendicular to the street, through the
midpoint of the rear line of the required front yard, to the opposite lot line,
or an extension thereof.
   E.   Side lines of lots in the subdivisions need not be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   F.   Regardless of the effective lot width, the subdivision lots must abut a
public street for at least twenty-five (25) feet.
   G.   All such subdivisions, except those developed under residential estates
zoning district standards, shall have a green belt planting strip of not less
than twenty (20) feet in width along all subdivision boundaries. Such greenbelt
shall be composed of:
      1.   One (1) row of deciduous or evergreen trees spaced not more than
forty (40) feet apart;
      2.   Not less than three (3) rows of shrubs spaced not more than forty
(40) feet apart; and
      3.   Not less than three (3) rows of shrubs spaced not more than eight
(8) feet apart, which shrubs will eventually grow to a height of not less than
twelve (12) feet.
(Code 1991, § 5-1122)
Cross reference- Subdivisions, Ch.
94.
CHAPTER 66 NATURAL RESOURCES
ARTICLE 66-1 OIL AND GAS
Cross reference- Buildings and building regulations, Ch.
14; environment, Ch.
34; floods, Ch.
42; health and sanitation, Ch.
46; parks and recreation, Ch.
74; planning, Ch.
82; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; subdivisions, Ch.
94; utilities, Ch.
110; vegetation, Ch.
114; zoning, Ch.
122.
State Law reference- Oil and gas, 52 O.S.
ARTICLE 66-1 OIL AND GAS
DIVISION 66-1-1 PURPOSE
DIVISION 66-1-2 DEFINITIONS
DIVISION 66-1-3 OIL AND GAS INSPECTOR
DIVISION 66-1-4 AGENT
DIVISION 66-1-5 OIL AND GAS WELL PERMITS
DIVISION 66-1-6 INSURANCE, BOND AND INDEMNITY
DIVISION 66-1-7 ON-SITE AND TECHNICAL REGULATIONS
DIVISION 66-1-8 PIPELINES
DIVISION 66-1-9 TECHNICAL ADVISOR
DIVISION 66-1-10 APPEALS
DIVISION 66-1-11 PENALTY
DIVISION 66-1-1 PURPOSE
   
66-101   Purpose
Sec 66-101 Purpose
The exploration, development, and production of oil and gas in the City are
activities which necessitate reasonable regulation to ensure that all property
owners, mineral and otherwise, have the right to peaceably enjoy their property
and its benefits and revenues. It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this
article to establish reasonable and uniform limitations, safeguards and
regulations for present and future operations related to the exploring,
drilling, developing, producing, transporting and storing of oil and gas and
other substances produced in association with oil and gas within the City to
protect the health and general welfare of the public; minimize the potential
impact to property and mineral rights owners, protect the quality of the
environment and encourage the orderly production of available mineral
resources.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
DIVISION 66-1-2 DEFINITIONS
   
66-111   Definitions
Sec 66-111 Definitions
All technical industry words or phrases related to the drilling and production
of oil and gas wells not specifically defined in this article shall have the
meanings customarily attributable thereto by prudent and reasonable oil and gas
industry operators. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Abandonment means "abandonment" as defined by the Corporation
Commission of Oklahoma and includes the plugging of the well and the
restoration of any well site as required by this article.
   B.   Ambient noise level means the all-encompassing noise level associated
with a given environment, being a composite of sounds from all sources at the
location, constituting the normal or existing level of environmental noise at a
given location.
   C.   Blowout preventer means a mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic or other
device or combination of such devices secured to the top of a well casing,
including valves, fittings and control mechanisms connected therewith, which
can be closed around the drill pipe, or other tubular goods which completely
close the top of the casing and are designed for preventing blowouts.
   D.   Building means any structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy. The term "building" shall be construed as if
followed by the words "or portions thereof."
   E.   Cathodic protection means an electrochemical corrosion control
technique accomplished by applying a direct current to the structure that
causes the structure potential to change from the corrosion potential to a
protective potential in the immunity region. The required cathodic protection
current is supplied by sacrificial anode materials or by an impressed current
system.
   F.   Cessation of drilling activities means the time when the blowout
protectors (BOPs) are removed or otherwise rendered inoperable and/or there are
no further activities to trip drill pipe, casing or insert other tools into or
out of the hole.
   G.   City means the City of Purcell.
   H.   City Code means the Code of the City of Purcell.
   I.   City Attorney means the City Attorney of the City of Purcell.
   J.   City regulated pipelines means those pipelines within the City that
under federal and State rules and regulations are not exempt from City
regulations and ordinances regarding mapping, inventorying, locating or
relocating of pipelines, including, but not limited to, pipelines over, under,
along, or across a public street or alley, pipelines from the well to the first
point of custody transfer or in private residential areas within the boundaries
of the City.
   K.   Closed loop mud system means a system utilized while drilling so that
reserve pits are not used and instead steel bins are used to collect all
drilling waste.
   L.   Commission means the Corporation Commission of Oklahoma and all State
rules.
   M.   Commencement of drilling activities means the reflection of either
"spud well" or "nipple up" the blow out protectors (BOP) by the drilling
contractors on the IADC- API daily drilling report form maintained by the
operator's tool pusher on the pad site.
   N.   Completion of drilling, re-drilling and re-working means the date the
work is completed for the drilling, re-drilling or re-working and the crew is
released by completing their work or contract or by their employer.
   O.   Daytime means the period from 6:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
   P.   Decibel (db) means a unit for measuring the intensity of a sound/noise
and is equal to ten (10) times the logarithm to the base ten (10) of the ratio
of the measured sound pressure squared to a reference pressure which is twenty
(20) micropascals.
   Q.   Demobilization means those activities when the drilling has ceased and
the rig equipment and related pad site equipment is being dismantled for the
purpose of moving off the drill pad site.
   R.   Derrick means any portable framework, tower, mast and/or structure
which is required or used in connection with drilling or re-working a well for
the production of oil and gas.
   S.   Drilling means digging or boring a new well for the purpose of
exploring for, developing or producing oil and gas or other hydrocarbons, or
for the purpose of injecting oil and gas, water or any other fluid or substance
into the earth.
   T.   Drilling equipment means the derrick, together with all parts of and
appurtenances to such structure, every piece of apparatus, machinery or
equipment used or erected or maintained for use in connection with drilling.
   U.   Drilling operations means drilling with drill pipe and bit, running
casing, circulating mud and fluids, tripping tools and setting production
casing/tubing.
   V.   Exploration means geologic or geophysical activities, including seismic
surveys, related to the search for oil and gas or other subsurface
hydrocarbons.
   W.   FEMA means Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   X.   FIRM means flood insurance rate map.
   Y.   Fire Department means the Fire Department of the City of Purcell.
   Z.   Flowback means the process of flowing a completed/fractured well for
the purpose of recovering water and residual sand from the oil and gas stream
prior to sending oil and gas down a sales line.
   AA.   Fracture or fracturing means the process of fracture stimulation of a
rock formation.
   AB.   Freshwater fracture pit means a pit used for the collection and
storage of fresh water for the purpose of fracture stimulation of oil and gas
wells.
   AC.   Fresh water means water obtained from any source (natural or reuse)
that contains three thousand (3,000) ppm chlorides or less or as defined by the
Corporation Commission of Oklahoma.
   AD.   Oil and gas means any fluid, either combustible or noncombustible,
which is produced in a natural state from the earth and which maintains an oil
and gaseous or rarefied state at standard temperature and pressure conditions
and/or the oil and gaseous components or vapors occurring in or derived from
petroleum or natural oil and gas.
   AE.   Oil and gas drilling review committee means a committee consisting of
applicable City departments assembled for the purpose of reviewing wells
drilled within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use without waivers,
all pipeline permit applications for oil and gas pipelines through a private
residential area, and permit applications involving noncommercial truck routes.
A Parks Advisory Board member will be included on the Oil and Gas Drilling
Review Committee when any of the aforementioned reviews affects dedicated
public parkland.
   AF.   Oil and gas well means any well drilled, to be drilled, or used for
the intended or actual production of natural oil and gas.
   AG. Habitable structure means any structure for which a certificate of
occupancy is required. A habitable structure shall not include detached
accessory buildings, garages and sheds.
   AH.   Hospital building means any building used or designed to and intended
to be used for medical, surgical, psychiatric, nursing or custodial care on a
twenty-four (24) hour basis, including convalescent facilities, social
rehabilitation centers, mental hospitals, detoxification facilities, and
alcohol and drug centers.
   AI.   Inspector means the Oil and Gas Inspector(s) or other inspectors as
needed and as designated by the City.
   AJ.   Lift compressor means a device that raises the pressure of a
compressible fluid (oil and gas) in order to lift oil and gas from the well.
   AK.   Line compressor means a device that raises the pressure of a
compressible fluid (oil and gas) in order for the oil and gas to be transported
through a pipeline.
   AL.   Mobilization means those activities when the drilling rig and related
equipment and personnel arrive at the well site and are conducting activities
to rig up or position the rig equipment at the well and prepare for drilling.
This includes all activities and services prior to the drill bit being lowered
below the rotary table and entering the conductor pipe in an attempt to make
hole ("spud in") for the first time at the pad site.
   AM.   Multiple well site permit means that permit issued for the sole
purpose of allowing future wells to be drilled on an existing pad site and
within one thousand (1,000) feet of protected uses without obtaining waivers
and/or variances.
   AN.   Nighttime means the period between 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   AO.   Operator means, for each well, the person listed on the corporation
commission forms (permit to drill or completion report) for an oil and gas well
that is, or will be, actually in charge and in control of drilling,
maintaining, operating, pumping or controlling any well, including, without
limitation, a unit operator. If the operator, as herein defined, is not the
lessee under an oil and gas lease of any premises affected by the provisions of
this article, then such lessee shall also be deemed to be an operator. In the
event that there is no oil and gas lease relating to any premises affected by
this article, the owner of the fee mineral estate in the premises shall be
deemed an operator.
   AP.   Outer boundary surface property line means the outer boundary of any
property for which a preliminary plat or concept plan has been filed with the
City of Purcell.
   AQ.   Person means both the singular and the plural and means a natural
person, a corporation, association, guardian, partnership, receiver, trustee,
administrator, executor, and fiduciary or representative of any kind.
   AR.   Pipeline means all parts of those physical facilities through which
oil and gas, hazardous liquids, fresh water, saltwater, or chemicals move in
transportation, including, but limited to, pipe, valves and other appurtenance
attached to pipe, whether or not laid in public or private easement or public
or private right-of-way within the City, including but not limited to gathering
lines, production lines and transmission lines. This definition does not
include pipelines associated with franchise utilities.
   AS.   Pipeline construction means the initiation of any excavation or other
disturbance of property for the purpose of installation, construction,
maintenance, repair, replacement, modification or removal of a pipeline.
   AT.   Pipeline or well emergency means a pipeline or well incident that is
required to be reported to the corporation commission, the Oklahoma Water
Resource Board, or any federal, State, or local regulatory agency.
   AU.   Pipeline permit means a permit for the movement of oil and gas, oil,
water or other products.
   AV.   Pipeline operator means any person owning, operating or responsible
for operating a pipeline.
   AW.   Private residential area means any area within the territorial limits
of the City zoned and used as single or multi-family residential.
   AX.   Property owner means the owner of the surface property.
   AY.   Protected use means a residence, religious institution, hospital
building, school or public park.
   AZ.   Public building means all buildings with occupancies of fifty (50) or
more persons and more than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet used or
designed to and intended to be used for motion picture theaters, symphony and
concert halls, television and radio studios admitting an audience, theaters,
banquet halls, night clubs, restaurants, taverns and bars, amusement arcades,
art galleries, bowling alleys, community halls, courtrooms, dance halls,
exhibition halls, funeral parlors, gymnasiums without spectator seating, indoor
swimming pools and tennis courts without spectator seating, lecture halls,
libraries, museums, waiting areas in transportation terminals, pool and
billiard parlors, arenas with spectator seating, skating rinks with spectator
seating, swimming pools with spectator seating, tennis courts with spectator
seating and amusement park structures, bleachers, grandstands and stadiums used
for viewing outdoor activities.
   BA.   Public park means any land area dedicated to the City for traditional
park-like recreational purposes.
   BB.   Re-drill means re-completion of an existing well by deepening or
sidetrack operations extending more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from the
existing well bore.
   BC.   Reduced emission completion (green completion) means techniques or
methods that minimize the release of natural oil and gas and vapors to the
environment when a well is being flowed during the completion or re-completion
phase of a Barnett Shale well.
   BD.   Religious institution means any building in which persons regularly
assemble for religious worship and activities intended primarily for purposes
connected with such worship or for propagating a particular form of religious
belief.
   BE.   Residence means a house, duplex, apartment, townhouse, condominium,
City-inspected mobile home or other building designed for dwelling purposes,
including those for which a building permit has been issued on the date the
application for an oil and gas well permit is filed with the Oil and Gas
Inspector. Residence shall include assisted living facilities, nursing homes
(both intermediate care facilities and skilled nursing facilities), residential
board and care facilities, group homes, twenty-four (24) hour shelters, half-
way houses, hotels, motels and jails.
   BF.   Re-working means re-completion or re-entry of existing well within the
existing bore hole or by deepening or sidetrack operations which do not extend
more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from the existing well bore, or
replacement of well liners or casings.
   BG.   Right-of-way means public rights-of-way, including streets, easements
and other property within the City and which is dedicated to the use and
benefit of the public.
   BH.   School means any public and private, primary and secondary educational
facilities providing education or off-site related school sports venues up
through and including the twelfth grade level and any licensed day care
centers, meaning a facility licensed by the State of Oklahoma or by the City of
Purcell that provides care, training, education, custody, treatment or
supervision for more than six (6) children under fourteen (14) years of age,
and for less than twenty-four (24) hours per day.
   BI.   Site means the area used for drilling, development and production and
all operational activities associated with oil and gas production.
   BJ.   Site preparation means any grading, tree removal, construction of
access roads, delivery of fill material, staging of equipment or any other
activity that would disturb the surface of the property.
   BK.   State or Federal Regulated Pipelines means those pipelines within the
City that under State and federal rules and regulations are exempt from City
regulations and ordinances regarding mapping, inventorying, locating and
relocating of pipelines.
   BL.   Street means any street, highway, sidewalk, alley, avenue, recessed
parking area or other public right-of-way, including the entire right-of-way.
   BM.   Tank means a container, covered or uncovered, used in conjunction with
the drilling or production of oil and gas or other hydrocarbons for holding or
storing fluids.
   BN.   Technical advisor means such person(s) familiar with and educated in
the oil and gas industry or the law as it relates to oil and gas matters that
may be retained from time to time by the City.
   BO.   Well means a hole or holes, bore or bores, to any horizon, formation,
or strata for the purpose of producing oil and gas, liquid hydrocarbon, brine
water or sulphur water, or for use as an injection well for secondary recovery,
disposal or production of oil and gas, or other hydrocarbons from the earth.
   BP.   Workover operation means work performed in a well after its completion
in an effort to secure production where there has been none, restore production
that has ceased or increase production.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
DIVISION 66-1-3 OIL AND GAS INSPECTOR
   
66-121   Oil And Gas Inspector
Sec 66-121 Oil And Gas Inspector
   A.   The City Manager shall designate, or contract an Oil and Gas Inspector
who shall enforce the provisions of this article. The Oil and Gas Inspector
shall be qualified with a background in drilling and production or demonstrate
a proven background in the drilling, production, and operation of oil and gas
wells. The Oil and Gas Inspector shall have the authority to issue any orders
or directives required to carry out the intent and purpose of this article and
its particular provisions. Failure of any person to comply with any such order
or directive shall constitute a violation of this article.
   B.   The Oil and Gas Inspector shall have the authority to enter and inspect
any premises covered by the provisions of this article to determine compliance
with the provisions of this article and all applicable laws, rules,
regulations, standards or directives of the State and to issue citations for
violations of this article. Failure of any person to permit access to the Oil
and Gas Inspector shall constitute a violation of this article. The Oil and Gas
Inspector shall conduct periodic inspections at least once a year of all
permitted wells in the City to determine that the wells are operating in
accordance within proper parameters as set out in this article and all
regulations of the commission.
   C.   The Oil and Gas Inspector shall have the authority to request and
receive any records, including any records sent to the commission, logs,
reports and the like, relating to the status or condition of any permitted well
necessary to establish and determine compliance with the applicable oil and gas
well and pipeline permits or other permits as required by this article. Failure
of any person to provide any such requested material shall be deemed a
violation of this article.
   D.   The Oil and Gas Inspector shall have the authority to allow
alternatives to the technical standards of this article such as new technology,
if the operator has demonstrated to the Oil and Gas Inspector's satisfaction
that the alternatives provide equal or greater protection of the environment or
public.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
DIVISION 66-1-4 AGENT
   
66-131   Operator's Agent
Sec 66-131 Operator's Agent
Every operator of any well shall designate an agent, who is a resident of the
State of Oklahoma, upon whom all orders and notices provided in this article
may be served in person or by registered or certified mail. Every operator so
designating such agent shall within ten (10) days notify the City Clerk and Oil
and Gas Well Division in writing of any change in such agent or such mailing
address unless operations within the City are discontinued.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
DIVISION 66-1-5 OIL AND GAS WELL PERMITS
   
66-141   Oil And Gas Well Permit Required
   
66-142   Oil And Gas Well Permit Application And Filing Fees
   
66-143   Oil And Gas Well Permitting Procedure
   
66-144   Issuance Of Oil And Gas Well Permits
   
66-145   Amended Oil And Gas Well Permit Application
   
66-146   Suspension Or Revocation Of Oil And Gas Well Permit; Issuance Of A
Citation, Effect
   
66-147   Periodic Reports
Sec 66-141 Oil And Gas Well Permit Required
   A.   A person wanting to engage in and operate in oil and gas production
activities shall apply for and obtain an oil and gas well permit under this
article and shall indicate what type of oil and gas well permit is requested.
It shall be unlawful for any person acting either for himself or acting as
agent, employee, independent contractor, or servant for any person to drill any
well, assist in any way in the site preparation, re-working, fracturing or
operation of any such well or to conduct any activity related to the production
of oil and gas without first obtaining an oil and gas well permit issued by the
City in accordance with this article. Such activities include, but are not
limited to re-working, initial site preparation, drilling, operation,
construction of rigs or tank batteries, fracturing and pressurizing. A permit
shall not be required for seismic surveys unless the survey is conducted on
City owned property or City rights-of-way unless such requirement is waived by
the City.
   B.   Operator must apply for and obtain an oil and gas well permit for the
drilling, re-drilling, deepening, re-entering, activating or converting of each
well.
   C.   A oil and gas well permit shall not constitute authority for the re-
entering and drilling of an abandoned well. An operator shall obtain a new oil
and gas well permit in accordance with the provisions of this article if the
operator is re- entering and drilling an abandoned well.
   D.   When an oil and gas well permit has been issued to the operator for the
drilling, re-drilling, deepening, re-entering, activating or converting of a
well, such oil and gas well permit shall constitute sufficient authority for
drilling, operation, production gathering or production maintenance, repair,
re-working, testing, plugging and abandonment of the well and/or any other
activity associated with mineral exploration at the site of such well,
provided, however, that a new or supplemental permit shall be obtained before
such well may be reworked for purposes of re-drilling, deepening or converting
such well to a depth or use other than that set forth in the then current
permit for such well.
   E.   Any person who intends to re-work a permitted well using a drilling
rig, to fracture stimulate a permitted well after initial completion or to
conduct seismic surveys or other exploration activities shall give written
notice to the Oil and Gas Inspector and post a sign as described below no less
than ten (10) days before the activities begin. The notice must identify where
the activities will be conducted and must describe the activities in detail,
including whether explosive charges will be used, the duration of the
activities and the time the activities will be conducted. The notice must also
provide the address and twenty-four (24) hour phone number of the person
conducting the activities. The person conducting the activities will post a
sign on the property giving the public notice of the activities, including the
name, address and twenty-four (24) hour phone number of the person conducting
the activities. If the Oil and Gas Inspector determines that an inspection by
the Oil and Gas Inspector is necessary, the operator will pay the City for the
inspection.
   F.   A oil and gas well permit shall automatically terminate if drilling of
the well bore has not commenced within three hundred sixty-five (365) days from
the date of the issuance of the oil and gas well permit. A oil and gas well
permit may be extended one (1) time by the Oil and Gas Inspector for an
additional three hundred sixty-five (365) days upon request by the operator if:
      1.   Operator provides proof that there are no additional protected uses
within one thousand (1,000) feet from the time of the filing of the original
permit applications; and
      2.   The request is submitted prior to the expiration of the original
permit. No permit shall be extended beyond the expiration date of the current
corporation commission permit.
   G.   The oil and gas well permits required by this article are in addition
to and are not in lieu of any permit which may be required by any other
provision of this code or by any other governmental agency.
   H.   No additional oil and gas well permit or filing fees shall be required
for:
      1.   Any wells that are existing, previously permitted or approved by the
City, within the corporate limits of the City on the effective date of the oil
and gas drilling ordinance from which this article is derived;
      2.   Any wells where drilling has commenced on the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived;
      3.   Any wells in existence or on any wells on which drilling has
commenced on land annexed into the City after the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived; or
      4.   Any well that was planned for the land before the ninetieth (90th)
day before the effective date of its annexation and one (1) or more licenses,
certificates, permits, approvals, or other forms of authorization by a
governmental entity were required by law for such well and the completed
application for the initial authorization was filed before the date the
annexation proceedings were instituted.
A person shall have forty-five (45) days after annexation into the City to
designate an oil and gas operation as a pre-existing operation by filing a site
plan drawn to scale that shows the proposed location of the well or pad site
with respect to survey lines and the proposed associated production facilities,
if any, or designate an existing pad site as a multiple well site with the Oil
and Gas Inspector.
An operator or property owner shall have forty-five (45) days after the
effective date of this article to notify the City of well sites existing prior
to the effective date of the 2010 oil and gas drilling ordinance from which
this article is derived that have a protected use (permitted or built), as
defined in the 2010 oil and gas drilling ordinance from which this article is
derived, which are located less than one thousand (1,000) feet from an existing
well site. Sites that meet the above notice and distance requirements will be
grandfathered to the setback requirements existing prior to the effective date.
If the above required notice is not received by the City within forty-five (45)
days, the minimum setback distance of one thousand (1,000) feet, provided by
the 2010 oil and gas drilling ordinance, will take effect immediately upon the
expiration of forty-five (45) days irrevocably.
   I.   No oil and gas well permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled
within any public park without the prior consent of the City Council. The City
Council shall review the insurance and security requirements on an individual
basis prior to issuing the permit.
   J.   No oil and gas well permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled
within any floodplain or floodway identified by FEMA on the most current FIRM
without obtaining a floodplain development permit from the City.
   K.   No oil and gas well permit shall be issued without an approved erosion
control and grading plan as required by the City to prevent any off site
migration of silt and sediment.
   L.   No oil and gas well permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled
on City owned property without the prior consent of the City Council. The City
Council shall review the insurance and security requirements on an individual
basis prior to issuing the permit.
   M.   Multiple oil and gas well pad site permit. At the time the operator
submits an application for the issuance for a single well permit, the operator,
at his option, may also request the issuance of a multiple well site permit for
drilling future wells. Applications for oil and gas wells drilled on a multiple
well site shall comply with the following:
      1.   For all purposes, the measurement shall be from the boundary line of
the pad site.
      2.   If the pad site is located within one thousand (1,000) feet of a
protected use at the time of the filing of a multiple well site permit
application, the applicant must obtain a variance granted by the City Council
or waivers from all protected uses within a one thousand (1,000) foot radius
before the multiple well site permit may be issued.
      3.   Notice that a multiple well site permit application has been filed
with the City must be included in any notice to property owners and in the
published newspaper notice as required by Section
66-143 for the initial oil and gas well permit.
      4.   All multiple well site permits must be filed of record by the
operator, at his expense in the applicable County deed records and indicated on
all applicable plats filed in the deed records. Each filed multiple well site
permit shall contain the address, lot and block, subdivision name and plat
volume and page of each lot, tract or parcel located within one- thousand
(1,000) feet of the multiple well site permit.
      5.   Prior to the issuance of a multiple well site permit by the City,
the operator must place at least one (1) sign on the property located in a
conspicuous place or places upon the property at a point or points visible from
the nearest right-of-way, street, roadway, public thoroughfare or protected use
adjacent to such property. The Oil and Gas Inspector may require additional
signage if the pad site fronts on more than one (1) right-of-way, street,
roadway, or public thoroughfare. The sign shall indicate that a multiple well
site permit to drill multiple wells for oil and gas on this site has been
applied for, and shall further set forth that additional information can be
acquired by telephoning the applicant/operator at the number indicated on the
sign. A permanent sign approved by the Oil and Gas Inspector indicating that a
multiple well site permit has been issued shall remain posted at the pad site
location for the duration of the multiple well site permit.
      6.   Prior to the commencement of drilling of each additional oil and gas
well on a permitted multiple well site permit pad site, the operator must
submit an application for the issuance of an oil and gas well permit, for each
such future well, in accordance with this article.
      7.   All subsequent oil and gas wells drilled on a permitted oil and gas
well pad site permit shall comply with all regulations, including the notice
and landscape provisions, and all other provisions of this article, except for
the distance setback requirements related to drilling a well from a protected
use. No variance or waiver for a distance setback from a protected use shall be
required for subsequent wells; however no well shall be drilled closer than one
thousand (1,000) feet from any protected use or public building.
      8.   No multiple well site permit shall be issued for an oil and gas well
pad site greater than five (5) acres in surface area or the amount of surface
area acreage included in the surface use agreement, whichever is larger.
      9.   All wells will be set back a minimum of seventy-five (75) feet from
the outer pad site boundary.
      10.   The multiple well site permit shall automatically terminate if
drilling of the initial well bore has not commenced within three hundred sixty-
five (365) days from the date of the issuance of the oil and gas well permit
unless the initial oil and gas well permit is extended by the Oil and Gas
Inspector.
      11.   The issuance of a multiple well site permit is for the sole purpose
of allowing future wells to be drilled on an existing pad site and within one
thousand (1,000) feet of protected uses without obtaining waivers and/or
variances as set forth in Section
66-143 of this article. All oil and gas wells drilled upon a permitted oil and
gas well pad site must otherwise comply with any drilling distance regulations
from a protected use or other structure as required by State law and applicable
fire code regulations and all other provisions of this article.
   N.   By acceptance of any oil and gas well permit issued pursuant to this
article, the operator expressly stipulates and agrees to be bound by and comply
with the provisions of this article. The terms of this article shall be deemed
to be incorporated in any oil and gas well permit issued pursuant to this
article with the same force and effect as if this article was set forth
verbatim in such oil and gas well permit.
   O.   Oil and Gas Drilling Review Committee (GDRC).
      1.   All applications where a City Council waiver is required, all
applications that involve noncommercial truck routes and all applications for
oil and gas pipelines or oil and gas pipeline facilities located in a private
residential area shall be reviewed by the Oil and Gas Drilling Review Committee
(GDRC) prior to the application being presented to the City Council or
administratively issued by the City staff, where applicable.
      2.   The GDRC shall be the Planning Commission, and composed of City
staff representatives, and Oil and Gas Inspector(s) and any outside experts to
include legal, engineering, environmental, etc., that the GDRC deems necessary.
      3.   Notice of GDRC meeting shall be mailed ten (10) days after receipt
of the application to:
         a.   All neighborhood associations within one-half (½) mile of drill
site;
         b.   All property owners within one thousand (1,000) feet of the
proposed well;
         c.   All property owners fronting or along the noncommercial truck
route; and
         d.   All property owners along the proposed private residential area
pipeline route.
Notices shall follow the same format used for adoption of zoning regulations
and district boundary changes and shall include a description of the
application, the proposed truck route, distance setbacks, a location map and
the GDRC meeting date and time. Notices shall include the email and phone
contact information for the operator and the street address for the well
location. All notices and applications shall be placed on the City's webpage in
an electronic format.
      4.   The GDRC meeting shall be conducted in the following manner:
         a.   The operator (or pipeline operator, where applicable) shall
present overview of the application.
         b.   Staff shall present the staff report including applicable
ordinance regulations.
         c.   Following the presentations, a total of fifteen (15) minutes
shall be allotted for citizen comments from the notified persons listed in
subsection (O)(3) above.
      5.   If the application involves a public park issue, the GDRC shall
report finding to the City Council.
      6.   No continuance shall be allowed unless requested by the operator/
applicant. If a continuance is requested, the operator must submit new
revisions within two (2) weeks of the initial GDRC hearing date. Notices to
neighborhood associations and property owners as outlined in subsection (O)(3)
above will be resent with revised information.
      7.   The GDRC shall submit a written report to the City Council involving
permit request on all applications involving oil and gas wells or multiple well
site permit without waivers and pipelines within the City's rights-of- way.
      8.   The report shall include the staff and citizen concerns and any
unresolved issues. The GDRC shall submit a recommendation to the Oil and Gas
Well Division on all applications that involve noncommercial truck routes and
all applications for pipelines or pipeline facilities located in a private
residential area.
      9.   The results and recommendations of the GDRC shall be sent to the
operator or pipeline operator and shall be posted on the City's webpage within
two (2) weeks following the GDRC meeting.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
Sec 66-142 Oil And Gas Well Permit Application And Filing Fees
   A.   Every application for an oil and gas well permit issued pursuant to
this article shall be in writing signed by the operator, or some person duly
authorized to sign on his behalf, and filed with the Oil and Gas Inspector.
   B.   Every application shall be accompanied by a permit fee as set forth in
the City Code of ordinances for oil and gas drilling and production fees.
   C.   The application shall include the following information:
      1.   The date of the application and type of oil and gas well permit
requested.
      2.   An accurate legal description of the lease property to be used for
the oil and gas operation, the parcel and the production unit and name of the
geologic formation as used by the commission. Property recorded by plat should
reference subdivision, block and lot numbers.
      3.   Map showing proposed transportation route and road for equipment,
chemicals or waste products used or produced by the oil and gas operation
indicating commercial and noncommercial routes.
      4.   Proposed well name.
      5.   Surface owner name(s) and address(es) of the pad site property.
      6.   Operator/applicant name and address and if the operator is a
corporation, the state of incorporation, and if the operator is a partnership,
the names and addresses of the general partners.
      7.   Name and address of individual designated to receive notice.
      8.   Name of representative with regulatory response and supervisory
authority over all oil and gas operation site activities and a phone number
that is answered on a twenty-four (24) hour basis.
      9.   Location and description of all improvements and structures within
one thousand (1,000) feet of the well.
      10.   Owner and address of each parcel of property within one thousand
(1,000) feet of the proposed drill site.
      11.   A surveyed site plan of the proposed operation site shall display a
registered professional land surveyor seal, a legend with scale for
measurements and a complete legal description. The site plan shall include
specific details to the projected location of the major components of the
drilling site, the location of all improvements and equipment, including the
location of the proposed well(s) and other facilities, including, but not
limited to, tanks, City regulated pipelines, compressors, separators, lights,
storage sheds, fencing, driveway approaches and any access roads. Surveyed site
plan shall show the location of specific wells, pipelines, tanks and reservoir
(s) in relationship to existing and proposed water and sanitary sewer lines and
any other utility easements. The site plan shall also indicate floodway,
floodplain or City recognized drainage ways and the elevation and slope of the
pad site which indicates compliance with the then current fill ordinance,
impacted vegetation, tree survey, creeks and other topographic features,
compliance with the landscaping requirements as set out in Section 66-162 of
this article, adjacent buildings and other structures and the measured distance
from the well site to these buildings and structures, temporary and permanent
fencing and landscaping.
      12.   The name, address and a phone number that is answered on a twenty-
four (24) hour basis of the person to be notified in case of an emergency.
      13.   The exact and correct acreage and number of wells, if applicable,
included in the oil and gas well permit application.
      14.   Copies of all reports submitted to the commission as required by
the Oil and Gas Inspector.
      15.   An original executed City wide road maintenance agreement signed
and approved by the City must be filed with the City Clerk that provides that
the operator shall repair, at his own expense, any damage to roads, streets, or
highways caused by the use of heavy vehicles for any activity associated with
the preparation, drilling, production, and operation of oil and gas wells.
      16.   Copies of erosion control and grading plans.
      17.   A description of the water source to be used during drilling.
      18.   A copy of the stormwater pollution prevention plan as required by
the Environmental Protection Agency. A copy of the notice of intent shall be
submitted to the City of Purcell, Department of Environmental Management,
Stormwater Division, three (3) days prior to the commencement of any on-site
activity.
      19.   A copy of the determination by the Oklahoma Water Resource Board
(OWRB) of the depth of useable quality ground water.
      20.   Evidence of insurance and security requirements under this article.
      21.   A statement, under oath, signed by the operator, or designated
representative, that the information submitted with the application is, to the
best knowledge and belief of the operator or designated representative, true
and correct.
      22.   All applicable City departmental reviews and approvals.
      23.   Fracture pond permit/approval.
      24.   A surface reclamation plan.
      25.   The proposed gathering pipeline route from the well to the
transmission pipeline, including all existing and proposed City rights-of-way
and public or private property crossed by the proposed gathering pipeline.
      26.   Noise management plan as outlined in Section
66-161.B.
      27.   All required application and oil and gas well permit fees.
      28.   A copy of the approved commission permit to drill together with
attachments and survey plats which are applicable to the drill site. No permit
shall be issued until a copy of the approved corporation commission permit to
drill together with all submitted attachments and survey plats which are
applicable to the drill and operation sites are submitted to the Oil and Gas
Inspector.
Sec 66-143 Oil And Gas Well Permitting Procedure
   A.   Wells located within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use. An
oil and gas well permit shall not be issued for any well to be drilled within
one thousand (1,000) feet of a residence, religious institution, hospital
building, school or public park without:
      1.   Waiver granted by the City Council, (except for residences); or
      2.   Written notarized waiver granted by all the protected use property
owners within one thousand (1,000) foot radius around the proposed well
pursuant to this section. All waivers must identify the property address, block
and lot number, subdivision name (if applicable) and plat volume and page and
be filed, at the expense of the operator, in the applicable County records
prior to the application of an oil and gas well permit.
This setback distance may be reduced, but never less than six hundred and sixty
(660) feet, from any residence, religious institution, hospital building,
school or public park.
The setback distance may never be reduced for a residence except by both an
explicit authorization by all effected residence owners, including all
undivided interest holders or homesteaded spouses in said residence(s), via
written notarized waiver; and also the required waiver granted by the City
Council. The City Council may not unilaterally grant the waiver without the
above stated written consent of all the effected residence owners.
This provision applies to any existing residence, religious institution,
hospital building, school or public park or where a building permit has been
issued for a protected use on the date the application for a permit is filed
with the Oil and Gas Inspector.
The measurement of the one thousand (1,000) foot distance shall be made from
the well bore, in a straight horizontal line, as looking down from an aerial
view as upon a map, without regard to vertical deviation(s) or intervening
structures or objects, to the closest exterior point of the building or
boundary line of a public park or property line of a school.
   B.   Application requirements. In addition to the requirements of Section
66-142, an application for an oil and gas well permit to drill a well within
one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use shall include a letter to the
Assistant Director of Planning and Development-Oil and Gas Well Division
requesting a public hearing to obtain an oil and gas well permit from City
Council or a copy of the written notarized waivers from the protected uses
within one thousand (1,000) feet of the proposed well and evidence of filing of
each waiver in the applicable County deed records.
   C.   Permitting procedure for request of a waiver by the City Council.
      1.   Within forty-five (45) days of receipt of a complete application, a
site plan and a request for a waiver to drill an oil and gas well within one
thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use, the Oil and Gas Inspector shall
schedule the matter on a City Council night agenda for a public hearing and
give notice by mail of the time, place and purpose thereof to the applicant and
any other party who has requested in writing to be so notified. The forty-five
(45) day period shall not begin to run until the applicant/operator has
provided the Oil and Gas Inspector with a complete application package.
      2.   At least twenty (20) days, and no more than thirty (30) days prior
to the date of the public hearing before the City Council for a waiver and the
issuance of an oil and gas well permit within one thousand (1,000) feet of a
protected use, the City shall notify, at operator's expense, each surface owner
of property, as shown by the current City of Purcell Fire Department address
system and the current tax rolls within one thousand (1,000) feet of the
proposed well or boundary of a multiple well site not owned by or under lease
to the operator of the hearing date and time. The notice shall contain an
internet link for information on oil and gas drilling, the number of wells
requested by the applicant, that drilling may commence within three hundred
sixty-five (365) days from the date of issuance of the permit, and contact
telephone numbers for City staff and the operator/applicant. Such notice shall
be deposited properly addressed and postage paid, in the United States mail.
Notice shall be sent by the City to all registered neighborhood associations
within one-half (½) mile of the proposed drill site.
      3.   At least fifteen (15) days, and no more than twenty (20) days prior
to the date of the public hearing before City Council for an oil and gas well
permit within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use under this article,
operator shall publish a notice at operator's expense, in one (1) issue of the
local section of a newspaper of general circulation in the City, for ten (10)
consecutive days. An affidavit by the printer or publisher of the newspaper
indicating publication of the notice shall be filed with the application and
will be prima facie evidence of such publication. All notices shall follow a
format required by the City.
      4.   At least twenty (20) days prior to the date of the public hearing
before City Council for an oil and gas well permit within one thousand (1,000)
feet of a protected use under this article the operator shall, at operator's
expense, erect at least one (1) sign, as approved by the Oil and Gas Inspector,
no less than three (3) feet by three (3) feet, upon the premises upon which an
oil and gas well permit within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use has
been requested. Where possible, the sign or signs shall be located in a
conspicuous place or places upon the property at a point or points nearest to
any right-of-way, street, roadway or public thoroughfare adjacent to such
property. The Oil and Gas Inspector may require additional signage if the
premise fronts on more than one (1) right- of-way, street, roadway, or public
thoroughfare.
         a.   The sign(s) shall substantially indicate that an oil and gas well
permit to drill for oil and gas within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected
use has been requested and state the date, time and place of the public
hearing, and shall further set forth that additional information can be
acquired by telephoning the operator/applicant at the number indicated on the
sign.
         b.   The continued maintenance of any such sign(s) shall not be deemed
a condition precedent to the holding of any public hearing or to any other
official action concerning this article.
         c.   The sign shall remain posted at the pad site for the duration of
the oil and gas well permit to drill within one thousand (1,000) feet of a
protected use.
      5.   All notice provisions contained herein shall be deemed sufficient
upon substantial compliance with this section.
      6.   After a permit application and site plan is submitted to drill
within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use, the Oil and Gas Inspector
shall evaluate the public impact of the proposed activity. The Oil and Gas
Inspector shall consider the proposed site and the proposed operations or
drilling program and shall draft recommended restrictions or conditions,
including minimum separation distance for drilling or other operations, special
equipment and procedures, recommended noise reduction levels, screening and any
other requirements the Oil and Gas Inspector deems appropriate. The
recommendation shall be submitted to the City Council for consideration prior
to the public hearing along with evidence that timely actual notice of the
hearing was given to all persons as required by this article.
      7.   At the public hearing and before the City Council considers the
merits of the application and the recommendations of the Oil and Gas Inspector,
the operator/applicant shall provide evidence of a certificate of publication
establishing timely publication of the notice of the hearing, and that the
operator/applicant has otherwise complied with or satisfied all other
requirements of this article, including full and complete compliance with the
insurance and security requirements.
      8.   The burden of proof on all matters, except notice, considered in the
hearing shall be upon the applicant/operator.
      9.   The City Council shall review the application and any other related
information. The City Council shall consider the following in deciding whether
to grant a waiver and authorize the issuance of an oil and gas well permit to
drill within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use:
         a.   Whether the operations proposed are reasonable under the
circumstances and conditions prevailing in the area considering the particular
location and the character of the improvements located thereon;
         b.   Whether the drilling of such wells would conflict with the
orderly growth and development of the City;
         c.   Whether there are other alternative well site locations that
would allow reasonable access to explore, develop and produce the mineral
estate without creating mineral waste;
         d.   Whether the operations proposed are consistent with the health
and welfare of the public when and if conducted in accordance with the oil and
gas well permit conditions to be imposed;
         e.   Whether there is approved access for the City fire personnel and
firefighting equipment;
         f.   Whether there is reasonable access to the oil and gas well site
that minimizes the impact to residential properties if the use of non-
designated commercial or truck routes are required;
         g.   Whether the impact upon the adjacent property and the general
public by operations conducted in compliance with the oil and gas well permit
conditions are reasonable and justified, balancing the following factors:
            (1)   The right of the owners(s) of the mineral estate to explore,
develop, and produce the minerals; and
            (2)   The availability of alternative drill sites, both presently
and at other times during the lease term;
         h.   The recommendations of the Oil and Gas Inspector; and
         i.   Whether all of the potentially effected residential owners have
provided the required waivers if the proposed well is to be permitted within
the allowed distance for a residence under allowed variances.
      10.   The City Council may require an increase in the operator/
applicant's proposed distance that the well is to be set back from any
residence, religious institution, public building, hospital building, school or
public park or require any change in operation, plan, design, layout or any
change in the on-site and technical regulations in Sections
66-161 and
66-162 of this article, including fencing, screening, lighting, delivery times,
noise levels, tank height, or any other matters reasonably required by public
interest.
      11.   The City Council may accept, reject or modify the application in
the interest of securing compliance with this article, the City Code and/or to
protect the health and welfare of the community.
   D.   Permitting procedure for a waiver from protected use property owners.
      1.   No application for an oil and gas well permit within one thousand
(1,000) feet of a protected use by waiver of protected uses shall be accepted
unless the written notarized waivers are obtained from all protected use
property owners within one thousand (1,000) feet of the proposed well site.
Written notarized waivers granted by the all the protected use property owners
within a one thousand (1,000) foot radius around the proposed well or boundary
of multiple well site must be filed, at the expense of the operator, in the
applicable County records. All waivers must identify the property address,
block and lot number, subdivision name and plat volume and page number. Copies
of filed protected use property owner waivers must be submitted with the filing
of a completed application for an oil and gas well permit within one-thousand
(1,000) feet of a protected use.
If the operator fails to obtain written waivers from all property owners within
a one thousand (1,000) foot radius around the proposed well, or boundary of
multiple well site the operator must submit a request for a waiver to drill an
oil and gas well within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use from City
Council pursuant to the requirements of subsection (C) of this section (except
for residences which mandatorily require waivers from all effected residential
owners) or modify the well location to comply with the one thousand (1,000)
foot setback from all protected uses. Waivers from new protected use property
owners shall not be required for an approved or existing multiple well site
permit.
      2.   Upon receipt of copies of all protected use waivers filed in the
applicable County deed records and a completed application by the operator, the
City shall notify, at operator's expense, each surface owner of property as
shown by the current City of Purcell Fire Department addresses within one
thousand (1,000) feet of the proposed well or boundary of multiple well site
not owned by or under lease to the operator.
The notice shall contain the information as outlined below, an internet link
for information on oil and gas drilling, the number of wells requested by the
applicant and contact telephone numbers for the City staff and operator/
applicant. Notice shall be sent by the City to all registered neighborhood
associations within one-half (½) mile of the proposed drill site.
      3.   At least ten (10) days prior to the date of filing of an application
for an oil and gas well permit within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected
use by protected use waiver under this article with the Oil and Gas Inspector,
operator shall publish the notice at the expense of the operator, in one (1)
issue of the local section of a newspaper of general circulation in the City
for ten (10) consecutive days. An affidavit by the printer or publisher of the
newspaper indicating publication of the notice shall be filed with the
application and will be prima facie evidence of such publication. All notices
shall follow a format required by the City.
      4.   At least ten (10) days prior to, but not more than thirty (30) days,
the date of filing of an application for an oil and gas well permit within one
thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use under this section with the Oil and
Gas Inspector, the operator, at operator's expense, shall erect at least one
sign, as approved by the Oil and Gas Inspector, no less than three (3) feet by
three (3) feet, upon the premises upon which an oil and gas well permit within
one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use by protected use waiver permit has
been requested. Where possible, the sign or signs shall be located in a
conspicuous place or places upon the property at a point or points nearest
right-of-way, street, roadway or public thoroughfare adjacent to such property.
The Oil and Gas Inspector may require additional signage if the premise fronts
on more than one (1) right-of-way, street, roadway, or public thoroughfare.
         a.   The sign(s) shall substantially indicate that an oil and gas well
permit within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use by protected use
waiver to drill for oil and gas has been requested and shall further set forth
that additional information can be acquired by telephoning the operator at the
number indicated on the sign.
         b.   The continued maintenance of any such sign(s) shall not be deemed
a condition precedent to the holding of any public hearing or to any other
official action concerning this article.
         c.   Any sign(s) shall be removed subsequent to final action by the
Oil and Gas Inspector or the City Council.
      5.   All notice provisions contained herein shall be deemed sufficient
upon substantial compliance with this section.
   E.   Permitting procedure for oil and gas wells located greater than one
thousand (1,000) feet from a protected use.
   Notice for Oil and Gas Well Permit.
      1.   At least ten (10) days after the date of filing of an application
for an oil and gas well permit with the Oil and Gas Inspector under this
article, City shall notify, at the expense of the operator, each surface owner
of property, as shown by the current City of Purcell Fire Department address
system and current tax roll within one thousand (1,000) feet of the proposed
well not owned by or under lease to the operator. Such notice, as outlined
below, shall be by depositing the same, properly addressed and postage paid, in
the United States mail.
   The notice shall contain the information as outlined below and shall also
include the date and time of the next monthly informational meeting at City
hall, an internet link for information on oil and gas drilling, the number of
wells requested by the applicant, that drilling may commence within one hundred
eighty (180) days from the issuance of the permit, and contact telephone
numbers for City staff and operator/applicant. Notice shall be sent to all
registered neighborhood associations within one-half (1/2) mile of the proposed
drill site.
      2.   At least ten (10) days prior to the date of filing of an application
for an oil and gas well permit under this article with the Oil and Gas
Inspector, operator shall publish a notice at the expense of the operator, in
one (1) issue of the local section of a newspaper of general circulation in the
City for ten (10) consecutive days. An affidavit by the printer or publisher of
the newspaper indicating publication of the notice shall be filed with the
application and will be prima facie evidence of such publication. All notices
shall follow a format required by the City.
      3.   At least ten (10) days prior to, but not more than thirty (30) days,
the date of filing of an application for an oil and gas well permit under this
article with the Oil and Gas Inspector, the operator, at operator's expense,
shall erect at least one (1) sign, as approved by the Oil and Gas Inspector, no
less than three (3) feet by three (3) feet, upon the premises upon which an oil
and gas well permit has been requested. Where possible, the sign or signs shall
be located in a conspicuous place or places upon the property at a point or
points nearest right-of-way, street, roadway or public thoroughfare adjacent to
such property. The Oil and Gas Inspector may require additional signage if the
premise fronts on more than one (1) right- of-way, street, roadway, or public
thoroughfare.
         a.   The sign(s) shall substantially indicate that an oil and gas well
permit to drill for oil and gas has been requested and shall further set forth
that additional information can be acquired by telephoning the operator at the
number indicated on the sign.
         b.   The continued maintenance of any such sign(s) shall not be deemed
a condition precedent to the holding of any public hearing or to any other
official action concerning this article.
         c.   The sign shall remain posted at the pad site for the duration of
the oil and gas well permit.
      4.   All notice provisions contained herein shall be deemed sufficient
upon substantial compliance with this section.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
Sec 66-144 Issuance Of Oil And Gas Well Permits
   A.   It is the responsibility of the Oil and Gas Inspector to review and
approve or disapprove all applications for oil and gas well drilling permits
based on the criteria established by this article. The Oil and Gas Inspector,
after the filing of a completed application and remittance of all fees,
insurance and security per the requirements of this article for an oil and gas
well permit, shall determine whether or not the application complies in all
respects with the provisions of this article and determine if the proposed well
to be drilled or the facility to be installed is in compliance with the
distance requirements for the requested oil and gas well permit on the date the
completed application is received by the Oil and Gas Inspector.
   B.   The provisions of this article shall apply to any dwellings or
buildings for which an application for a building permit has been submitted on
the date the application for an oil and gas well permit is filed with the Oil
and Gas Inspector.
   C.   If all the requirements of this article are met, the Oil and Gas
Inspector shall issue an oil and gas well permit for the drilling of the well
or the installation of the facilities applied for.
   D.   If the Oil and Gas Inspector denies an oil and gas well permit
application for reasons other than lack of required distance as set out in this
article for the requested oil and gas well permit, he shall notify the operator
in writing of such denial stating the reasons for the denial. Within thirty
(30) days of the date of the written decision of the Oil and Gas Inspector to
deny the oil and gas well permit, the operator may:
      1.   Cure those conditions that caused the denial and resubmit the
application to the Oil and Gas Inspector for approval and issuance of the oil
and gas well permit; or
      2.   File an appeal to the City Council under the provisions outlined in
this article pursuant to Section
66-191 "appeals" of this article.
   E.   If the Oil and Gas Inspector determines that the operator has complied
with all of the provisions of this article but that the proposed drill site
does not comply with the distance requirements of this article the Oil and Gas
Inspector shall notify the operator. The operator may modify the well location
or resubmit the application for an oil and gas well permit within one thousand
(1,000) feet of a protected use. Operator must comply with all the application
requirements for an oil and gas well permit within one thousand (1,000) feet of
a protected use.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
Sec 66-145 Amended Oil And Gas Well Permit Application
An operator may request to amend an oil and gas well permit application without
re- noticing, to relocate a drill site or operation site that is shown on (or
incorporated by reference as part of) the application, provided that the
distance to protected uses is not decreased.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
Sec 66-146 Suspension Or Revocation Of Oil And Gas Well Permit; Issuance Of A
Citation, Effect
   A.   If an operator (or its officers, employees, agents, contractors, or
representatives) fails to comply with any requirement of an oil and gas well
permit (including any requirement incorporated by reference as part of the oil
and gas well permit), the Oil and Gas Inspector shall give written notice to
the operator specifying the nature of the failure and giving the operator a
reasonable time to cure, taking into consideration the nature and extent of the
failure, the extent of the efforts required to cure, and the potential impact
on the health and welfare of the community. In no event, however, shall the
cure period be less than ten (10) days unless the failure presents a violation
of the noise provisions, a risk of imminent destruction of property or injury
to persons or unless the failure involves the operator's failure to provide
periodic reports as required by this article.
   B.   If the operator fails to correct the noncompliance within ten (10) days
from the date of the notice, the Oil and Gas Inspector may suspend or revoke
the oil and gas well permit or issue a citation pursuant to the provisions of
this article. A citation may be immediately issued for failure to comply with
the provisions of section 66-161.B "Noise." However, if the operator is in
compliance with the approved noise management plan, and a violation still
occurs, the operator will be given twenty-four (24) hours from notice of
noncompliance to correct the violation from an identified source before a
citation is issued. Additional extensions of the twenty-four (24) hour period
may be granted in the event that the source of the violation cannot be
identified after reasonable diligence by the operator.
   C.   No person shall carry on any operations performed under the terms of
the oil and gas well permit issued under this article during any period of any
oil and gas well permit suspension or revocation or pending a review of the
decision or order of the City in suspending or revoking the oil and gas well
permit. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent the necessary,
diligent and bona fide efforts to cure and remedy the default or violation for
which the suspension or revocation of the oil and gas well permit was ordered
for the safety of persons or as required by the commission.
   D.   If the operator does not cure the noncompliance within the time
specified in this article, the Oil and Gas Inspector, upon written notice to
the operator, may notify the commission and request that the commission take
any appropriate action.
   E.   Operator may, within thirty (30) days of the date of the decision of
the Oil and Gas Inspector in writing to suspend or revoke an oil and gas well
permit, file an appeal to the City Council under the provisions outlined in
this article pursuant to section 66-191, "Appeals," of this article.
   F.   If an application for an oil and gas well permit is denied by the Oil
and Gas Inspector, nothing herein contained shall prevent a new permit
application from being submitted to the Oil and Gas Inspector for the same
well.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
Sec 66-147 Periodic Reports
   A.   The operator shall notify the Oil and Gas Inspector of any changes to
the following information within one (1) business week after the change occurs:
      1.   The name, address, and phone number of the operator;
      2.   The name, address, and phone number of the person designated to
receive notices from the City (which person must be a resident of Oklahoma that
can be served in person or by registered or certified mail); and
      3.   The operator's emergency response plan (including "drive-to-maps"
from public rights-of-way to each drill site).
   B.   The operator shall notify the Oil and Gas Inspector of any change to
the name, address, and twenty-four (24) hour phone number of the person(s) with
supervisory authority over drilling or operations activities within one (1)
business day.
   C.   The operator shall provide a copy of any "incident reports" or written
complaints submitted to the commission within thirty (30) days after the
operator has notice of the existence of such reports or complaints.
   D.   Beginning on December 31st after each well is completed, and continuing
on each December 31st thereafter until the operator notifies the Oil and Gas
Inspector that the well has been abandoned and the site restored, the operator
shall submit a written report to the Oil and Gas Inspector identifying any
changes to the information that was included in the application for the
applicable oil and gas well permit that have not been previously reported to
the City.
   E.   Beginning on December 31st after each well is permitted by the City,
the operator shall provide an operational status report for every well
permitted to the operator within the City. The report shall include the well
name, API number, lease name, City case number, commission permit number,
commission lease ID number and current status whether pending, drilling,
completing, producing, plugged or abandoned.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
DIVISION 66-1-6 INSURANCE, BOND AND INDEMNITY
   
66-151   Bond, Letters Of Credit, Indemnity, Insurance
Sec 66-151 Bond, Letters Of Credit, Indemnity, Insurance
   A.   General requirements. The operator shall be required to:
      1.   Comply with the terms and conditions of this article and the oil and
gas well permit issued hereunder.
      2.   Promptly clear drill and operation sites of all litter, trash, waste
and other substances used, allowed, or occurring in the operations, and after
abandonment or completion grade, level and restore such property to the same
surface conditions as nearly as possible as existed before operations.
      3.   Indemnify and hold harmless the City, its officers, agents, and
employees from and against any and all claims, losses, damages, causes of
action, suits and liability of every kind, including all expenses of
litigation, court costs, and attorney's fees, for injury to or death of any
person or for damage to any property arising out of or in connection with the
work done by operator under an oil and gas well permit:
         a.   Where such injuries, death or damages are caused by operator's
sole negligence or the joint negligence of operator and any other person or
entity; and
         b.   Regardless of whether such injuries, death or damages are caused
in whole or in part by the negligence of operator.
      4.   Promptly pay all fines, penalties and other assessments imposed due
to breach of any terms of the oil and gas well permit.
      5.   Promptly restore to its former condition any public property damaged
by the oil and gas operation.
   B.   Bond, irrevocable letter of credit.
      1.   Prior to the issuance of an oil and gas well permit the operator
shall
provide the Oil and Gas Inspector with a security instrument in the form of a
bond or an irrevocable letter of credit in accordance with this subsection (B).
Evidence of the execution of a letter of credit shall be submitted to the Oil
and Gas Inspector by submitting an original signed letter of credit from the
banking institution, with a copy of the same provided to the City Clerk.
         a.   During drilling. An operator drilling between one (1) and five
(5) wells in the City at any time shall provide a blanket bond or letter of
credit that meets the requirements of this subsection (B) in the principal
minimum amount of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00). Such
blanket bond or letter of credit shall be increased by fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for the sixth (6th) and each additional well being drilled in the
City.
         b.   During production. An operator with wells that are producing and
for which all drilling operations have ceased shall provide a blanket bond or
letter of credit that meets the requirements of this subsection (B) in the
principal minimum amounts as follows:
            (1)   Up to seventy-five (75) wells: One hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00);
            (2)   Between seventy-six (76) and one hundred fifty (150) wells:
One hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00); and
            (3)   More than one hundred fifty (150) wells: Two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000.00).
      2.   The City shall be authorized to draw upon such bond or letter of
credit to (i) recover any fines or penalties assessed under this article or
(ii) to pay the City for the cost of doing any work required to remedy any
default by the operator under any provision of this article. If the City
determines that a default has occurred in the performance of any requirement or
condition imposed by this article, a written notice shall be given to the
operator. Such notice shall specify the work to be done, the estimated cost and
the period of time deemed to be reasonably necessary for the completion of such
work. After receipt of such notice, the operator shall, within the time therein
specified, either cause or require the work to be performed, or failing to do
so, shall pay over to the City one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the
estimated cost of doing the work as set forth in the notice. In no event,
however, shall the cure period be less than thirty (30) days unless the failure
presents a risk of imminent destruction of property or injury to persons or
unless the failure involves the operator's failure to provide periodic reports
as required by this article.
      The City shall be authorized to draw against the bond or letter of credit
provided hereunder to recover such amount due from the operator. Upon receipt
of such monies, the City shall proceed by such mode as deemed convenient and
necessary to cause the required work to be performed and completed, but no
liability shall be incurred other than for the expenditure of said sum in hand.
In the event that the well has not been properly abandoned under the
regulations of the commission, such additional money may be demanded from the
operator as is necessary to properly plug and abandon the well and restore the
drill site in conformity with the regulations of this article. In the event the
operator does not cause the work to be performed and fails or refuses to pay
over to the City the estimated cost of the work to be done as set forth in the
notice, or the issuer of the security instrument refuses to honor any draft by
the City against the applicable irrevocable letter of credit or bond the City
may proceed to obtain compliance and abate the default by way of civil action
against the operator, or by criminal action against the operator, or by both
such methods.
      3.   Requirements for bonds. A bond shall be executed by a reliable
bonding or insurance institution authorized to do business in Oklahoma,
acceptable to the City. The bond shall become effective on or before the date
the oil and gas well permit is issued and shall remain in force and effect for
at least a period of six (6) months after the expiration of the oil and gas
well permit term or until the well is plugged and abandoned and the site is
restored, whichever occurs first. The operator shall be listed as principal and
the instrument shall run to the City, as obligee, and shall be conditioned that
the operator will comply with the terms and regulations of this article and the
City. The original bond shall be submitted to the Oil and Gas Inspector with a
copy of the same provided to the City Clerk.
      4.   Requirements for letters of credit. A letter of credit shall be
issued by a reliable bank authorized to do business in Oklahoma and shall
become effective on or before the date the oil and gas well permit is issued.
The letter of credit shall remain in force and effect for at least a period of
six (6) months after the expiration of the oil and gas well permit term. If the
letter of credit is for a time period less than the life of the well as
required by this article, the operator must agree to either renew the letter of
credit or replace the letter of credit with a bond in the amount required by
this article, on or before sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of the
letter of credit. If the operator fails to deliver to the City either the
renewal letter of credit or replacement bond in the appropriate amount on or
before sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of the letter of credit,
the City may draw the entire face amount of the attached letter of credit to be
held by the City of Purcell as security for operator's performance of its
obligations under this article.
      5.   When the well or wells covered by said irrevocable letters of credit
or bond have been properly abandoned in conformity with all regulations of this
article, and in conformity with all regulations of the commission and notice to
that effect has been received by the City, or upon receipt of a satisfactory
substitute, the irrevocable letter of credit or bond issued in compliance with
these regulations shall be terminated and cancelled.
   C.   Insurance. In addition to the bond or letter of credit required
pursuant to this article, the operator shall carry a policy or policies of
insurance issued by an insurance company or companies authorized to do business
in Oklahoma. In the event such insurance policy or policies are cancelled, the
oil and gas well permit shall be suspended on such date of cancellation and the
operator's right to operate under such oil and gas well permit shall
immediately cease until the operator files additional insurance as provided
herein.
      1.   General requirements applicable to all policies.
         a.   The City, its officials, employees, agents and officers shall be
endorsed as an "additional insured" to all policies except employers liability
coverage under the operator's workers compensation policy.
         b.   All policies shall be written on an occurrence basis except for
environmental pollution liability (seepage and pollution coverage) and excess
or umbrella liability, which may be on a claims-made basis.
         c.   All policies shall be written by an insurer with an A-VIII or
better rating by the most current version of the A.M. Best Key Rating Guide or
with such other financially sound insurance carriers acceptable to the City.
         d.   Deductibles shall be listed on the certificate of insurance and
shall be on a "per occurrence" basis unless otherwise stipulated herein.
         e.   Certificates of Insurance shall be delivered to the City of
Purcell, planning and development, 230 W. Main, Purcell, Oklahoma 73080,
evidencing all the required coverage, including endorsements, prior to the
issuance of an oil and gas well permit.
         f.   All policies shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation
providing rights of recovery in favor of the City.
         g.   Any failure on part of the City to request required insurance
documentation shall not constitute a waiver of the insurance requirement
specified herein.
         h.   Each policy shall be endorsed to provide the City a minimum
thirty (30) day notice of cancellation, non-renewal, and/or material change in
policy terms or coverage. A ten (10) day notice shall be acceptable in the
event of nonpayment of premium.
         i.   During the term of the oil and gas well permit, the operator
shall report, in a timely manner, to the Oil and Gas Inspector any known loss
occurrence which could give rise to a liability claim or lawsuit or which could
result in a property loss.
         j.   Upon request, certified copies of all insurance policies shall be
furnished to the City.
      2.   Standard commercial general liability policy. This coverage must
include premises, operations, blowout or explosion, products, completed
operations, sudden and accidental pollution, blanket contractual liability,
underground resources and equipment hazard damage, broad form property damage,
independent contractors' protective liability and personal injury. This
coverage shall be a minimum combined single limit of one million dollars
($1,000,000) per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
      3.   Excess or umbrella liability. Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00)
excess when necessary.
      4.   Environmental pollution liability coverage.
         a.   Operator shall purchase and maintain in force for the duration of
the oil and gas well permit, insurance for environmental pollution liability
applicable to bodily injury, property damage, including loss of use of damaged
property or of property that has not been physically injured or destroyed;
cleanup costs; and defense, including costs and expenses incurred in the
investigation, defense or settlement of claims; all in connection with any loss
arising from the insured site. Coverage shall be maintained in an amount of at
least five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) per loss.
         b.   Coverage shall apply to sudden and accidental, as well as gradual
pollution conditions resulting from the escape or release of smoke, vapors,
fumes, acids, alkalis, toxic chemicals, liquids or oil and gases, waste
material or other irritants, contaminants or pollutants.
         c.   The operator shall maintain continuous coverage and shall
purchase extended coverage period insurance when necessary. The extended
coverage period insurance must provide that any retroactive date applicable to
coverage under the policy precedes the effective date of the issuance of the
permit by the City.
      5.   Control of well. The policy should cover the cost of controlling a
well that is out of control, re-drilling or restoration expenses, seepage and
pollution damage as first party recovery for the operator and related expenses,
including, but not limited to, loss of equipment, experts and evacuation of
residents.
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) per occurrence/combined
single limit.
         b.   Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) sub-limit endorsement
may be added for damage to property for which the operator has care, custody
and control.
      6.   Workers' compensation and employers' liability insurance.
         a.   Workers' compensation benefits shall be Oklahoma statutory
limits.
         b.   Employers' liability shall be a minimum of five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) per accident.
         c.   Such coverage shall include a waiver of subrogation in favor of
the City and provide coverage in accordance with applicable State and federal
laws.
      7.   Automobile liability insurance.
         a.   Combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
         b.   Coverage must include all owned, hired and not-owned automobiles.
      8.   Certificates of insurance.
         a.   The company must be admitted or approved to do business in the
State of Oklahoma, unless the coverage is written by a surplus lines insurer.
         b.   The insurance set forth by the insurance company must be:
            (1)   Underwritten on forms that have been approved by the Oklahoma
State Board of Insurance or ISO, or an equivalent policy form acceptable to the
City, with the exception of environmental pollution liability and control of
well coverage;
            (2)   Set forth all endorsements and insurance coverage according
to requirements and instructions contained
herein; and
            (3)   Shall specifically set forth the notice of cancellation,
termination, or change in coverage provisions to the City. All policies shall
be endorsed to read "THIS POLICY WILL NOT BE CANCELLED OR NON-RENEWED WITHOUT
THIRTY (30) DAYS ADVANCED WRITTEN NOTICE TO THE OWNER AND THE CITY EXCEPT WHEN
THIS POLICY IS BEING CANCELLED FOR NONPAYMENT OF PREMIUM, IN WHICH CASE TEN
(10) DAYS ADVANCE WRITTEN NOTICE IS REQUIRED."
         c.   Original endorsements affecting coverage required by this section
shall be furnished with the certificates of insurance.
   D.   Indemnification and express negligence provisions.
      1.   Each oil and gas well permit issued by the Oil and Gas Inspector
shall include the following language: operator does hereby expressly release
and discharge all claims, demands, actions, judgments, and executions which it
ever had, or now has or may have, or assigns may have, or claim to have,
against the City of Purcell, and/or its departments, agents, officers,
servants, successors, assigns, sponsors, volunteers, or employees, created by,
or arising out of personal injuries, known or unknown, and injuries to
property, real or personal, or in any way incidental to or in connection with
the performance of the work performed by the operator under an oil and gas well
permit. The operator shall fully defend, protect, indemnify, and hold harmless
the City of Purcell, Oklahoma, its departments, agents, officers, servants,
employees, successors, assigns, sponsors, or volunteers from and against each
and every claim, demand, or cause of action and any and all liability, damages,
obligations, judgments, losses, fines, penalties, costs, fees, and expenses
incurred in defense of the City of Purcell, Oklahoma, its departments, agents,
officers, servants, or employees, including, without limitation, personal
injuries and death in connection therewith which may be made or asserted by
operator, its agents, assigns, or any third parties on account of, arising out
of, or in any way incidental to or in connection with the performance of the
work performed by the operator under an oil and gas well permit. The Operator
agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the City of Purcell, Oklahoma, its
departments, its officers, agents, servants, employees, successors, assigns,
sponsors, or volunteers from any liabilities or damages suffered as a result of
claims, demands, costs, or judgments against the City, its departments, its
officers, agents, servants, or employees, created by, or arising out of the
acts or omissions of the City of Purcell occurring on the drill site or in the
course and scope of inspecting and permitting the Oil and Gas Wells, including,
but not limited to, claims and damages arising in whole or in part from the
negligence of the City of Purcell occurring on the drill site or in the course
and scope of inspecting and permitting the oil and gas wells. It is understood
and agreed that the indemnity provided for in this section is an indemnity
extended by the operator to indemnify and protect the City of Purcell, Oklahoma
and/or its departments, agents, officers, servants, or employees from the
consequences of the negligence of the City of Purcell, Oklahoma and/or its
departments, agents, officers, servants, or employees, whether that negligence
is the sole or contributing cause of the resultant injury, death, and/or
damage.
   E.   Notice. The individual designated to receive notice shall be a resident
of Oklahoma upon whom all orders and notices provided in this article may be
served in person or by registered or certified mail. Every operator shall
within ten (10) days notify the Oil and Gas Inspector in writing of any change
in such agent or mailing address unless operations in the City are discontinued
and abandonment is complete.
   F.   Acceptance and indemnity agreement. The operator who has a net worth of
not less than fifty million dollars ($50,000,000.00), as shown in such owner's
or operator's most recent audited financial statements, may substitute an
acceptance and indemnity agreement in lieu of the bond or irrevocable letter of
credit and insurance requirements set forth in this article, provided that such
acceptance and indemnity agreement shall be in a form acceptable to, and
approved by, the City Attorney and the City's director of risk management. The
Oil and Gas Inspector may request an annual review of the operator's most
recent audited financial statements to assure compliance with this section.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
DIVISION 66-1-7 ON-SITE AND TECHNICAL REGULATIONS
   
66-161   Technical Regulations
   
66-162   Fences And Landscaping
   
66-163   Cleanup And Maintenance
   
66-164   Plugged And Abandoned Wells
Sec 66-161 Technical Regulations
   A.   On-site requirements.
      1.   Abandoned wells. All wells shall be abandoned in accordance with the
rules of the corporation commission and pursuant to Section 66-16 of this
article.
      2.   Blowout prevention. In all cases, blowout prevention equipment shall
be used on all wells being drilled, worked over or in which tubing is being
changed. Protection shall be provided to prevent blowout during oil and gas
operations as required by and in conformance with the requirements of the
commission and the recommendations of the American Petroleum Institute. The
operator must equip all drilling wells with adequate blowout preventers, flow
lines and valves commensurate with the working pressures involved as required
by the commission.
      3.   Closed loop mud systems. A closed loop mud system shall be required
for all drilling and reworking operations for all oil and gas wells. Oil and
gas wells located on an open space of not less than twenty-five (25) acres with
no operations to be conducted within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected
use may use a lined earthen pit instead of a closed loop mud system.
      4.   Compliance. Operator shall comply with all applicable federal, State
and City requirements at all times.
      5.   Discharge. No person shall place, deposit, discharge, or cause or
permit to be placed, deposited or discharged, any oil, naphtha, petroleum,
asphalt, tar, hydrocarbon substances or any refuse including wastewater or
brine from any oil and gas operation or the contents of any container used in
connection with any oil and gas operation in or upon any body of water or any
private property in the City or in or upon any public right-of- way, alleys,
streets, lots, storm drain, ditch or sewer, sanitary drain without permits from
the appropriate City departments.
      6.   Drilling notice. The operator shall provide forty-eight (48) hour
notice to the Oil and Gas Inspector before the start of drilling operations,
fracture stimulation, work over or servicing operations.
      7.   Drill stem testing. All open hole formation or drill stem testing
shall be done during daytime hours. Drill stem tests may be conducted only if
the well effluent during the test is produced through an adequate oil and gas
separator to storage tanks and the effluent remaining in the drill pipe prior
to the time the tool is closed is flushed to the surface by circulating
drilling fluid down the annulus and up the drill pipe.
      8.   Dust, vibration, odors. All drilling and production operations shall
be conducted in such a manner as to minimize, so far as practicable, dust,
vibration, or noxious odors, and shall be in accordance with the best accepted
practices incident to drilling for the production of oil and gas and other
hydrocarbon substances in urban areas. All equipment used shall be constructed
and operated so that vibrations, dust, odor or other harmful or annoying
substances or effects are minimized by the operations carried on at any
drilling or production site or from anything incident thereto to avoid injury
to or annoyance of persons living in the vicinity. The site or structures shall
not be permitted to become dilapidated, unsightly or unsafe. Proven
technological improvements in industry standards of drilling and production in
this area shall be adopted as they become available if capable of reducing
factors of dust, vibration and odor.
      9.   Electric lines. All electric lines to production facilities shall be
located in a manner compatible to those already installed in the surrounding
area or subdivision.
      10.   Electric motors. Only electric prime movers or motors shall be
permitted for the purpose of pumping wells. No electric power shall be
generated on location. All electrical installations and equipment shall conform
to the City ordinances and the appropriate national codes.
      11.   Emergency response plan. Prior to the commencement of any oil and
gas or other hydrocarbons production activities, operator shall submit to the
Oil and Gas Inspector an emergency response plan establishing written
procedures to minimize any hazard resulting from drilling, completion or
producing of oil and gas wells. Said plan shall use existing guidelines
established by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission, Oklahoma Water Resource
Board, Department of Transportation and/or the Environmental Protection Agency
and City's fire code. A copy of the emergency response plan shall be kept on-
site.
      12.   Equipment painted. All production equipment on the site shall be
painted and maintained at all times, including pumping units, storage tanks,
buildings and structures. No company logos or advertisement shall be allowed.
The City reserves the right to dictate the color scheme to best match the
surrounding environment.
      13.   Explosives. Use of explosive charges within the City limits shall
require a permit issued by the bomb and arson section of the City of Purcell
Fire Department.
      14.   Fire notice. In the event of a fire or discovery of a fire, smoke,
or unauthorized release of flammable or hazardous materials on any property,
the operator shall immediately report such condition to the Fire Department in
accordance with the City of Purcell Fire Code. The reporting limits for
hazardous materials release shall conform to the requirements of the
corporation commission and not exceed any State or federal permitting limit. A
copy of the hazardous materials release records required by Oklahoma Water
Resource Board (OWRB) shall be forwarded to the Fire Marshal on an annual
basis.
      15.   Fire prevention; sources of ignition. Firefighting apparatus and
supplies as approved by the Fire Department and required by any applicable
federal, State, or local law shall be provided by the operator, at the
operator's cost, and shall be maintained on the drilling site at all times
during drilling and production operations. The operator shall be responsible
for the maintenance and upkeep of such equipment. Each well shall be equipped
with an automated valve that closes the well in the event of an abnormal change
in operating pressure. All wellheads shall contain an appropriately labeled
emergency shut off valve to the well distribution line.
      16.   Fracturing operations.
         a.   All formation fracture stimulation operations shall be conducted
during daytime hours.
         b.   At least forty-eight (48) hours before operations are commenced,
the operator shall notify the Oil and Gas Inspector and post a sign at the
entrance of the well site advising the public of the date the operations will
commence.
         c.   "Flowback" operations to recover fluids used during fracture
stimulation shall be exempt from work hour restrictions, subject to noise
restrictions of Section 66-13.
         d.   A watchman shall be required at all times during such operations.
         e.   At no time shall the well be allowed to flow or vent directly to
the atmosphere without first directing the flow through separation equipment or
into a portable tank.
      17.   Fresh water fracture ponds.
         a.   Permit required. The construction of a fresh water fracture pit
shall require a permit from the City after approval from the following City
departments:
            (1)   Fire Department in order to address the location of the fresh
water fracture pit;
            (2)   Water Department for sewer line and water line review;
            (3)   Transportation and Public Works for master thoroughfare and
floodplain review;
            (4)   Planning and Development for forestry review; and
            (5)   Any other applicable City departments as determined by the
City.
         b.   No construction of the fracture pond shall commence until review
and approval from all City departments are received and a permit is issued by
the Oil and Gas Inspector.
         c.   No fresh water fracture pit may be placed in any City recognized
drainage way, FEMA floodplain or floodway, existing City rights-of- way or City
easements.
         d.   Construction and maintenance of the fresh water fracture pit must
comply with all City, State and federal regulations.
         e.   All fracture ponds located on a tract of land not adjacent to an
oil and gas drilling pad site shall be located in "AG" Agricultural, "I" Light
Industrial, "J" Medium Industrial and "K" Heavy Industrial zoning districts
unless otherwise authorized by the Oil and Gas Inspector for the purpose of
reducing total number of fracture ponds.
         f.   The permit or authorization issued by the City shall be
maintained on the location at all times during construction of the fresh water
fracture pit.
         g.   All pits shall meet the following requirements:
            (1)   Fresh water fracture pits shall not be lined with a synthetic
impervious liner unless approved by the Oil and Gas Inspector. Existing liners
shall be removed at the time any pit is reworked, enlarged, restored or altered
unless otherwise authorized by the Oil and Gas Inspector;
            (2)   The fresh water fracture pit shall be enclosed with open
design chain link black or dark green fencing on all four (4) sides;
            (3)   Pits shall be maintained in a manner utilizing best
management practices to ensure the integrity of pit walls and liners. For
purposes of this subsection, "best management practices" shall mean structural,
nonstructural and managerial techniques that are recognized to be the most
effective and practical means to control water storage in open pits in an urban
or rural setting;
            (4)   No oil and oil and gas waste by-products or saltwater shall
be allowed in the fresh water fracture pit; and
            (5)   A sign at a conspicuous place or places on the property near
any right-of-way, street, road, or public thoroughfare. The sign shall provide
the operator's phone number for additional information.
         h.   The operator shall enter into a specific surface use agreement
with the surface owner that provides for the maintenance and operation of the
fracture pond when the pond is no longer under the control or use of the
operator or that the operator will restore the property to its condition prior
to the construction of the fracture pond. The agreement shall be provided to
the City.
         i.   Periodic tests may be required by the City's oil and gas well
inspector. All costs for testing shall be borne by the operator or permittee of
the fresh water fracture pit. All samples collected for testing shall be
witnessed by the Oil and Gas Inspector or other designated City personnel.
      18.   Fresh water wells. It shall be unlawful to drill any well the
center of which, at the surface of the ground, is located within five hundred
(500) feet of any existing fresh water well unless a waiver is obtained from
the property owner. The measurement shall be in a direct line from the closest
well bore to the fresh water well bore.
         a.   The operator of an oil and gas well shall provide the Oil and Gas
Inspector with a "pre-drilling" and "post-drilling" water analysis and flow
rate from any existing fresh water well within five hundred (500) feet of the
oil and gas well.
         b.   An operator may drill a fresh water well in compliance with State
law within two hundred (200) feet of the well bore to use for drilling and
completion operations. A fresh water well that is used for drilling and
production operations is excluded from the five hundred (500) foot setback for
future oil and gas wells drilled on the permitted pad site.
         c.   A copy of the Oklahoma Water Resource Board permit shall be
provided to the Oil and Gas Inspector along with the geographic coordinates of
every water well within five hundred (500) feet of the well bore.
         d.   A copy of all plugging and abandonment reports filed with the
State and/or transfer of ownership notice shall be provided to the Oil and Gas
Inspector and the water department.
         e.   The operator of an oil and gas well shall provide the Oil and Gas
Inspector with a "pre-drilling" and "post-drilling" water analysis from the
fresh water well if the well is transferred to private or public use.
      19.   Oil and gas lift compressor. Any on-site compressor used to lift
oil and gas shall be designed to comply with the noise requirements of this
article.
      20.   Oil and gas processing on-site. Except for a conventional oil and
gas separator or line heater, no refinery, processing, treating or absorption
plant of any kind shall be constructed, established or maintained on the
premises without appropriate City permits and a certificate of occupancy.
      21.   Grass, weeds, trash. All drill sites shall be kept clear of high
grass, weeds, and combustible trash within a radius of one hundred (100) feet
around any oil and gas tank or tanks or producing wells.
      22.   Hazardous plan. Hazardous materials management plan (HMMP) and all
material safety data sheets (MSDS) for all hazardous materials that will be
located, stored, transported and/or temporarily used on the operations site
shall be submitted to the Oil and Gas Inspector for distribution to the
director of the emergency management office.
      23.   Lights. No person shall permit any lights located on any site to be
directed in such a manner so that they shine directly on public roads, adjacent
property or property in the general vicinity of the site. To the extent
practicable, and taking into account safety considerations, site lighting shall
be directed downward and internally so as to avoid glare on public roads and
adjacent dwellings and buildings within three hundred (300) feet.
      24.   Mobilization and demobilization. Mobilization and demobilization
shall be prohibited before 9:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m. on Sundays. Other than
mobilization and demobilization and advancing the bore hole, no other
activities shall be allowed on the site on Sundays.
      25.   Muffling exhaust. Exhaust from any internal combustion engine or
compressor, stationary or mounted on wheels, used in connection with the
drilling of any well or for use on any production equipment shall not be
discharged into the open air unless equipped with an exhaust muffler, or
mufflers or an exhaust muffler box constructed of noncombustible materials
sufficient to suppress noise and disruptive vibrations and prevent the escape
of obnoxious oil and gases, fumes or ignited carbon or soot.
      26.   Pits. The following applies for pits used for drilling and
completion operations:
         a.   Lined earthen mud or circulating pits or a closed loop mud system
may be used for oil and gas wells permitted prior to the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived.
         b.   All pits shall be approved by the applicable City department.
         c.   All pits and contents shall be de-watered, back-filled and
compacted following the schedule established by the Statewide rules of the
Corporation Commission.
         d.   No drill cuttings, rotary mud or wastewater generated during
drilling operations may be buried on site unless permitted by the commission
and approved by the City after submission of an acceptable pre-burial test.
         e.   No pit shall be placed in a floodplain without obtaining a
floodplain development permit from the City.
         f.   Every drill pit used for drilling operations shall be fenced on
all open sides during drilling operations and enclosed on all four (4) sides
with a chain link fence in compliance with Section 66-162 after drilling
operations have ceased.
         g.   No flowback water produced by fracture operations shall be placed
in any open pit without a copy of a valid State permit submitted to the Oil and
Gas Inspector.
      27.   Private roads and drill sites. Prior to the commencement of any
drilling operations, all private roads used for access to the drill site and
the site itself shall be at least fifteen (15) feet wide, drain appropriately,
have an overhead clearance of fourteen (14) feet and shall be surfaced with a
crushed rock, gravel or ore and maintained to prevent dust and mud. All
temporary driveway approaches must be approved by the City prior to the
commencement of any drilling operations. In particular cases these requirements
governing surfacing of private roads may be altered at the discretion of the
Oil and Gas Inspector and the City director of transportation and Public Works
after consideration of all circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
following: distances from public streets and highways; distances from adjoining
and nearby property owners whose surface rights are not leased by the
operation; the purpose for which the property of such owners is or may be used;
topographical features; nature of the soil; and exposure to wind. Watering,
wetting or other methods or materials must be used to control the dust on all
roads adjacent to residential property. A gated permanent approach meeting the
City design requirements shall be constructed at the entrance of the access
road onto a public street within sixty (60) days after drilling operations have
ceased or at the request of the Oil and Gas Inspector.
      28.   Reduced emission completion. After fracturing or re-fracturing,
operators shall employ appropriate equipment and processes as soon as
practicable to minimize natural oil and gas and associated vapor releases to
the environment. All salable oil and gas shall be directed to the sales line as
soon as practicable or shut in and conserved. All wells that have a sales line
shall be required to employ reduced emission completion techniques and methods,
but operators may request a variance from the Oil and Gas Inspector if they
believe that reduced emission completion techniques or methods are not feasible
or would endanger the safety of personnel or the public.
      Reduced emission completion techniques and methods shall not be required
for well(s) that do not have a sales line and:
         a.   Were permitted prior to the effective date of this article; or
         b.   Is the first permitted well on a pad site.
      Flaring may be allowed in some instances as an alternative to venting as
allowed by the Oil and Gas Inspector. If burning of oil and gases by open flame
is authorized by the Oil and Gas Inspector then such open flame shall not be
located closer than six hundred (600) feet from any building not used in
operations on the drilling site and such open flame shall be screened in such a
way as to minimize detrimental effects to adjacent property owners.
      29.   Saltwater wells. No commercial saltwater disposal wells shall be
located within the City.
      A City permit for a noncommercial saltwater disposal wells for lease use
may be issued for wells as identified on the corporation commission form W-14
if:
         a.   Well is located in an "I" Restricted Light Industrial, "I2" Light
Industrial, "I3" Heavy Industrial;
         b.   All permit and notification requirements to obtain a State permit
are reviewed by the Oil and Gas Inspector prior to obtaining the State permit;
         c.   A State permit is obtained from the commission to dispose of
nonhazardous oil and oil and gas waste by injection into a porous formation not
productive of oil and oil and gas;
         d.   The saltwater disposal well is cased and cemented to the surface;
         e.   The disposal well permit must be approved by the City Council if
the well is located within one thousand (1,000) feet of a protected use;
         f.   The disposal well is in compliance with all conditions of the
State permit; and
         g.   The disposal well is in compliance with any restrictions placed
on the City permit.
      The City shall have the right to terminate the saltwater disposal permit
and required the well to be plugged and abandoned within thirty (30) days after
notice of noncompliance.
      30.   Signs.
         a.   A sign shall be immediately and prominently displayed at the gate
on the temporary and permanent site fencing erected pursuant to Section
66-162 of this article. Such sign shall made from be durable material,
maintained in good condition and, unless otherwise required by the commission,
shall have a surface area of not less than two (2) square feet nor more than
four (4) square feet and shall be lettered with the following:
            (1)   Well name and number;
            (2)   Name of operator;
            (3)   The emergency 911 number; and
            (4)   Telephone numbers of two (2) persons responsible for the well
who may be contacted in case of emergency.
         b.   Permanent weatherproof signs reading "DANGER NO SMOKING OR OPEN
FLAME ALLOWED IN THIS AREA" "PELIGRO NO FUMAR O INICIAR LLAMA EN ESTA AREA"
shall be posted immediately upon completion of the well site fencing at the
entrance of each well site and tank battery or in any other location approved
or designated by the Fire Chief of the City. Sign lettering shall be four (4)
inches in height and shall be red on a white background or white on a red
background. Each sign shall include the emergency notification numbers of the
Fire Department and the operator, well and lease designations required by the
commission.
         c.   National Fire Prevention Association (NFPA) 704 diamond hazard
identification signs are required on each tank and at the entrance to the site
adjacent to the operator's sign. A label must be located on each tank
indicating exact chemicals that may be contained in the tank. Text shall be a
minimum of six (6) inches in height, contrasting with the background color.
      31.   Storage of equipment. On-site storage is prohibited. No equipment
shall be stored on the drilling or production operation site, unless it is
necessary to the everyday operation of the well. Lumber, pipes, tubing and
casing shall not be left on the operation site except when drilling or well
servicing operations are being conducted on the site.
      No vehicle or item of machinery shall be parked or stored on any street,
right-of-way or in any driveway, alley or upon any site which constitutes a
fire hazard or an obstruction to or interference with fighting or controlling
fires except that equipment which is necessary for drilling or production
operations on the site. The Fire Department shall be the entity that determines
whether any equipment on the site shall constitute a fire hazard.
      32.   Storage tanks. All tanks and permanent structures shall conform to
the American Petroleum Institute (A.P.I.) specifications unless other
specifications are approved by the Fire Chief. The top of the tanks shall be no
higher than ten (10) feet above the terrain surrounding the tanks. All storage
tanks shall be equipped with a secondary containment system including lining
with an impervious synthetic material. The secondary containment system shall
be a minimum of three (3) feet in height and one and one-half (1½) times the
contents of the largest tank in accordance with the fire code, and buried at
least one (1) foot deep. Drip pots shall be provided at the pump out
connections to contain the liquids from the storage tanks.
         a.   Secondary containment shall be required for all equipment.
Secondary containment shall be capable of containing a release of one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the largest storage container within the containment
and have adequate freeboard to contain an average annual rain event.
         b.   Temporary flowback tanks shall be removed within ninety (90) days
after completion of the oil and gas well(s) at the pad site unless permission
is obtained from the Oil and Gas Inspector to extend the time period for no
more than thirty (30) days.
         c.   Each storage tank shall be equipped with a level control device
that will automatically activate a valve to close the well in the event of
excess liquid accumulation in the tank.
         d.   No meters, storage tanks, separation facilities, or other
aboveground facilities, other than the wellhead and flow lines, shall be placed
in a floodway identified by FEMA on the most current FIRM or the one hundred
(100) year floodplain without a floodplain development permit obtained from the
department of transportation and public works.
         e.   All tanks shall be set back at least seventy-five (75) feet from
any public street, road, highway or future street, or right-of-way or the
nearest rail of an operating railway.
         f.   Tank batteries, separators and equipment shall be set back at
least one thousand (1,000) feet from the protected use, public building or
habitable structure or one hundred (100) feet from the property line, whichever
is greater. The setback shall apply for any protected use, public building or
habitable structure for which a building permit has been issued on the date of
the application for a drilling permit. The distance shall be calculated from
the closest tank batteries, well facilities and/or equipment, in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, to the closest
exterior point of the building.
      33.   Tank battery facilities. Tank battery facilities shall be equipped
with a lightning arrestor system.
      34.   Surface casing. Surface casing shall be run and set in full
compliance with the applicable rules and regulations of the commission.
      35.   Valves. Each well must have a shutoff valve to terminate the well's
production. The Fire Department shall have access to the well site and the
shut-off valve in an emergency. Each well shall be equipped with an automated
valve that closes the well in the event of any abnormal increase in operating
pressure.
      36.   Vapor recovery for storage tanks. Vapor recovery equipment shall be
required for tank batteries that have an estimated rolling annual aggregate
emissions rate of twenty-five (25) tons or greater of total volatile organic
hydrocarbons per year per wellhead. Vapor recovery equipment must be operated
and maintained in such a way to ensure a ninety-five percent (95%) recovery
efficiency between the internal and external atmospheres of the tank(s).
      37.   Vehicle truck routes. Vehicles associated with drilling and/or
production in excess of three (3) tons shall be restricted to such streets
designated as either truck routes or commercial delivery routes designated by
the City Code wherever capable of being used. The vehicles shall be operated on
a truck route wherever capable of being used; they shall be operated on a
commercial delivery route only when it is not possible to use a truck route to
fulfill the purpose for which such vehicle is then being operated. Commercial
delivery route means any street or highway so designated by the City Council
for the use by any commercial motor vehicle, truck- tractor, trailer, semi-
trailer, or any combination thereof. All vehicle truck routes must be approved
by the Oil and Gas Inspector before the oil and gas well permit is issued. The
Oil and Gas Inspector shall have the authority to require an alternate route to
minimize the impact to surrounding uses.
      38.   Waste disposal. Unless otherwise directed by the commission, all
tanks used for storage shall conform to the following:
         a.   Operator must use portable closed steel storage tanks for storing
liquid hydrocarbons. Tanks must meet the American Petroleum Institute
standards. All tanks must have a vent line, flame arrester and pressure relief
valve. All tanks must be enclosed by a fence applicable to the issued permit
classification.
         b.   Except as provided in subsection A,3 above, drilling mud,
cuttings, liquid hydrocarbons and all other field waste derived or resulting
from or connected with the drilling, Re-working or deepening of any well shall
be discharged into a closed loop mud system. All disposals must be in
accordance with the rules of the commission and any other appropriate local,
State or federal agency.
         c.   Unless otherwise directed by the commission, waste materials
shall be removed from the site and transported to an off-site disposal facility
not less often than every thirty (30) days. Water stored in on-site tanks shall
be removed as necessary.
         d.   All waste shall be disposed of in such a manner as to comply with
the air and water pollution control regulations of the State, this article and
any other applicable ordinance of the City.
      39.   Watchman. The operator must keep a watchman or security personnel
on-site during the drilling or re-working of a well when other workmen are not
on the premises.
      40.   Wellhead status. Well bores, mouse holes, rat holes, cellars and
conduit casings shall be:
         a.   Covered at all times when not in use by one-half (1/2) inch steel
plating, adequately covering the entire bore hole annulus to prevent accidental
entrapment of persons or animals;
         b.   Completed through the production casing flange with a metal plate
or blind flange bolted across the head; and
         c.   Surrounded with a six (6) foot tall chain link fence having a
gate and lock.
      The cellar shall be filled or closed. The braden head shall be piped to
the surface and open to the atmosphere or have an observable and adequate
pressure gauge with operable test valve.
      41.   Work hours. No construction activities involving excavation of,
alteration to, or repair work on any access road or pad site shall occur during
nighttime hours or at any time on Sunday. Truck deliveries of equipment and
materials associated with drilling and/or production, well servicing, site
preparation and other related work conducted on the well site shall be limited
to daytime hours except in cases of fires, blowouts, explosions and any other
emergencies or where the delivery of equipment is necessary to prevent the
cessation of drilling or production. Other than mobilization and demobilization
and advancing the bore hole, no other activities shall be allowed on the wells
site on Sundays.
   B.   Noise-Oil and gas wells.
      1.   Prior to the issuance of an oil and gas well permit and the
commencement of operations, the operator shall submit a noise management plan,
approved by the Oil and Gas Inspector, detailing how the equipment used in the
drilling, completion, transportation, or production of a well complies with the
maximum permissible noise levels of this section. The noise management plan
must:
         a.   Identify operation noise impacts;
         b.   Provide documentation establishing the ambient noise level prior
to construction of any wellhead, compressor or compression facility; and
         c.   Detail how the impacts will be mitigated. In determining noise
mitigation, specific site characteristics shall be considered, including but
not limited to the following:
            (1)   Nature and proximity of adjacent development, location, and
type;
            (2)   Seasonal and prevailing weather patterns, including wind
directions;
            (3)   Vegetative cover on or adjacent to the site; and
            (4)   Topography.
      The operator shall be responsible for verifying compliance with this
section and the noise management plan after the installation of the noise
generation equipment
      2.   No well shall be drilled, re-drilled or any equipment operated at
any location within the City in such a manner so as to create any noise which
causes the exterior noise level when measured at the protected use receiver's/
receptor's property line or from the closest exterior point of the protected
use structure or inside the protected use structure if access to the property
is granted by the receiver/receptor, that:
         a.   Exceeds the ambient noise level by more than five (5) decibels
during daytime hours and more than three (3) decibels during nighttime hours;
         b.   Exceeds the ambient noise level by more than ten (10) decibels
over the daytime average ambient noise level during fracturing operations
during daytime hours. No fracturing shall be allowed during nighttime hours
except for flowback operations related to fracturing as provided in c. below;
         c.   Exceeds the ambient noise level by more than three (3) decibels
during flowback operations during nighttime hours;
         d.   Creates pure tones where one-third (1/3) octave band sound-
pressure level in the band with the tone exceeds the arithmetic average of the
sound-pressure levels of two (2) contiguous one- third (1/3) octave bands by
five (5) dB for center frequencies of five hundred (500) Hertz and above, and
by eight (8) dB for center frequencies between one hundred sixty (160) and four
hundred (400) Hertz, and by fifteen (15) dB for center frequencies less than or
equal to one hundred twenty-five (125) Hertz; or
         e.   Creates low-frequency outdoor noise levels that exceed the
following dB levels:
            (1)   Sixteen (16) Hz octave band: Sixty-five (65) dB.
            (2)   Thirty-two (32) Hz octave band: Sixty-five (65) dB.
            (3)   Sixty-four (64) Hz octave band: Sixty-five (65) dB.
      3.   The operator shall be responsible for establishing and reporting to
the City a continuous seventy-two (72) hour pre-drilling ambient noise level
prior to the issuance of an oil and gas well permit. The seventy-two (72) hour
time span shall include at least one (1) twenty-four (24) hour reading during
either a Saturday or Sunday. The operator shall use the prior established
ambient noise level for the installation of any new noise generation equipment
unless the operator can demonstrate that the increase in the ambient noise
level is not associated with drilling and production activities located either
on or off-site.
      4.   Adjustments to the noise standards as set forth above in subsection
(1) (a), (b) and (c) of this section may be permitted intermittently in
accordance with the following:
Permitted Increase       Duration of Increase (dBA) (minutes)*
   10                .....5
   15                .....1
   20               less than 1
   * Cumulative minutes during any one (1)hour
      5.   All workover operations shall be restricted to daytime hours.
      6.   The exterior noise level generated by the drilling, redrilling or
other operations of all oil and gas wells located within one thousand (1,000)
feet of a protected use shall be continuously monitored, to ensure compliance.
The cost of such monitoring shall be borne by the operator. If a complaint is
received by either the operator or the Oil and Gas Inspector from any protected
use the operator shall, within twenty-four (24) hours of notice of the
complaint, continuously monitor for a seventy-two (72) hour period the exterior
noise level generated by the drilling, redrilling or other operations to ensure
compliance. At the request of the Oil and Gas Inspector, the operator shall
monitor the exterior noise level at the source of the complaint.
      7.   Acoustical blankets, sound walls, mufflers or other alternative
methods as approved by the Oil and Gas Inspector may be used to ensure
compliance. All soundproofing shall comply with accepted industry standards and
be subject to approval by the City's Fire Department.
      8.   The sound level meter used in conducting noise evaluations shall
meet the American National Standard Institute's standard for sound meters or an
instrument and the associated recording and analyzing equipment which will
provide equivalent data.
      9.   A citation may be immediately issued for failure to comply with the
provisions of this section. However, if the operator is in compliance with the
approved noise management plan, and a violation still occurs, the operator will
be given twenty-four (24) hours from notice of noncompliance to correct the
violation from an identified source before a citation is issued. Additional
extensions of the twenty-four (24) hour period may be granted in the event that
the source of the violation cannot be identified after reasonable diligence by
the operator.
      10.   The City reserves the absolute right to require the utilization of
electrical equipment or downhole pumps or any other equipment it deems
necessary to facilitate the quiet operation of the permitted well in order to
ensure the health and welfare and peaceful tranquility of the citizens of the
municipality.
   C.   Setbacks.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to drill any well, the center of which, at the
surface of the ground, is located:
         a.   Within twenty-five (25) feet from any storage tank, or source of
ignition;
         b.   Within seventy-five (75) feet of any public street, road,
highway, future street, right-of-way, property line or the nearest rail of an
operating railway;
         c.   Within one thousand (1,000) feet from any protected use;
         d.   Within six hundred sixty (660) feet from any public building;
         e.   Within one thousand (1,000) feet from any habitable structure;
         f.   Within one hundred (100) feet of any building accessory to, but
not necessary to, the operation of the well;
         g.   Within five hundred (500) feet to any fresh water well not
drilled by the operator as a specific source of water used for drilling or
completion operations without the express written permission of the owner of
the water well; or
         h.   Within three hundred (300) feet from an outer boundary surface
property line or a distance minus the required zoning setback of the adjacent
property at the time of permitting the first oil and gas well unless one of the
following conditions exist:
            (1)   The oil, oil and gas and mineral lease precedes the formation
of an outer boundary surface property line; or
            (2)   The adjacent property is owned or under lease by the
operator.
      The distance shall be calculated from the well bore, in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures or objects, to the closest exterior
point of any object listed in subsections (a) through (f) and (h) above, except
that the measurement from a well bore to a school not located within another
protected use shall be from the property line of the school to the well bore,
in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects.
      The measurement for subsection (g) above shall be in a direct line from
the closest well bore to the fresh water well bore. The distance requirement
for fresh water wells is subject to the corporation commission regulations and
any other State or federal requirements.
      2.   Distance reduction for protected uses: The distance set out in
subsection (C) of this section may be reduced to six hundred sixty (660) feet
from any protected use or habitable structure, with a:
         a.   Waiver granted by the City Council (except for residential
properties); and/or
         b.   Written notarized waivers granted by all the protected use
property owners within a one thousand (1,000) foot radius around the proposed
well pursuant to Section 66-143 of this article.
   D.   Compressor stations-Natural oil and gas facilities.
      1.   Compressor noise regulations. For purposes of this subsection,
"operator" shall refer to either the pipeline operator or the oil and gas well
operator, as applicable.
         a.   Maximum permitted sound levels for all permanent lift or line
compressors shall be limited by the following zoning classifications:
            Industrial: Seventy-five (75) dBA day/sixty-five (65) dBA night.
            Commercial: Sixty-five (65) dBA day/fifty-five (55) dBA night.
            Residential: Fifty-five (55) dBA day/fifty (50) dBA night.
      If the measurement location is on a boundary between two (2) different
land use classifications, the lower noise level standard applicable to the
noise zone shall apply.
         b.   Operators shall be allowed to demonstrate that the current actual
ambient is greater than allowed which will become the new ambient for that
location (measured at the property line of the noise creator), except if
located in residential zoning, a special exception granted by the board of
adjustment shall be required.
         c.   Noise measurement will be taken at the property line of the
compressor station to determine ambient. To determine compliance with the noise
requirements all measurements will be taken at the property line of the
receiver/receptor.
         d.   Compressors shall meet the low and high frequency requirements/
standards as required for oil and gas wells cited above.
      2.   Lift compressors.
         a.   Lift compressors shall be allowed in all zoning districts, but
shall be restricted to the oil and gas drilling pad site.
         b.   Except as outlined below, lift compressors shall be required to
meet all the noise standards of subsection (A), "on-site requirements."
            (1)   Temporary lift compressor for each well shall be classified
as temporary for six (6) months for noise regulations purposes and shall be
allowed five (5) dBA over ambient during the day and three (3) dBA over ambient
at night.
            (2)   No compressor shall be considered temporary if installed
within six (6) months of removal of the initial compressor for that well.
            (3)   Permanent lift compressors shall be required to meet the
zoning noise requirements for their zoning location as outlined in subsection
(1) above.
            (4)   Sound blankets shall be permitted for noise abatement on
temporary lift compressors.
            (5)   No sound blankets shall be permitted for permanent lift
compressors. All acoustical structures for permanent compressors must be
constructed of permanent material constructed of metal, masonry or other
structurally sound material as approved by the Director of Planning and
Development that significantly screens the equipment, is painted in a non-
contrasting soft earth tone color to match the nearby surroundings as nearly as
possible and meets all applicable building and fire codes.
         c.   All lift compressors shall be set back a minimum of one thousand
(1,000) feet from any protected use, public building or habitable structure
property line not necessary to the operation of the compressor. Equipment and
buildings not part of the operation of the compressor shall be set back a
minimum of one thousand (1,000) feet from the protected use, public building or
habitable structure or one hundred (100) feet from the property line, whichever
is greater.
         d.   All compressor and associated equipment and buildings shall be
enclosed by a six (6) foot security fence constructed per Section 66-162
"fences and landscaping" of this article.
         e.   One (1) three (3) inch caliper tree shall be planted every forty
(40) linear feet along the property line abutting a public right-of-way. No
heavy equipment, including but not limited to trucks, tractors, trailers,
bulldozers, bobcat tractors, trenchers, compressors and hoists shall be allowed
inside the critical root zone of any protected tree on any compressor site
without the specific approval of the City Forester. This requirement shall
supersede other landscaping requirements, except for the tree reservation and/
or planting percentage requirements in Section 66-162.
         f.   All equipment or buildings associated with the operation of the
compressor located in or within one thousand (1,000) feet of residentially used
property or from the public right-of-way shall be screened from public view by
appropriate landscaping, berming, structure or wall constructed of metal,
masonry or other structurally sound material as approved by the Director of
Planning and Development or his/her designee that significantly screens the
equipment and is painted in a non-contrasting soft earth tone color to match
the nearby surroundings as nearly as possible.
         g.   Secondary containment shall be required around all compressor
stations. All secondary containment must meet the requirements of subsection
(A)(32) of Section 66-161, "technical regulations."
         h.   Exhaust from any internal combustion engine or compressor,
stationary or mounted on wheels, used in connection with the drilling of any
well or for use on any production equipment shall not be discharged into the
open air unless it is equipped with an exhaust muffler or mufflers or an
exhaust muffler box constructed of non-combustible materials sufficient to
suppress noise and disruptive vibrations and prevent the escape of noxious oil
and gases, fumes or ignited carbon or soot.
         i.   All facilities shall be inspected by the Fire Marshal for
compliance with relative fire codes and the Oil and Gas Inspector prior to
operation of the compressor.
      3.   Line compressors.
         a.   Line compressors shall be permitted only in "AG" agricultural
district, "I" restricted light industrial, "I2" light industrial, "I3" heavy
industrial districts.
         b.   All line compressors shall be set back a minimum of one thousand
(1,000) feet from any protected use and six hundred sixty (660) feet from all
public buildings not necessary to the operation of the compressor. The setback
from protected uses may be reduced to
six hundred sixty (660) feet provided the line compressor is fully enclosed.
Equipment and buildings not part of the operation of the compressor shall be
set back a minimum of six hundred sixty (660) feet from the protected use,
public building or habitable structure or one hundred (100) feet from the
property line, whichever is greater.
         c.   Line compressors located in "AG" agricultural, "I" restricted
light industrial, "I2" light industrial, "I3" heavy industrial districts shall
be required to meet the following standards:
            (1)   Line compressor stations located in "AG" agricultural, "I"
restricted light industrial, "I2" light industrial, "I3" heavy industrial
zoning districts shall meet the applicable noise standards for that zoning
classification as set out in subsection (1)(a) above. Landscaping, buffering or
acoustical structures shall be required as required by this section and as
required by the zoning regulations for the applicable zoning district.
            (2)   No sound blankets shall be allowed.
            (3)   All acoustical structures must be constructed of permanent
material constructed of metal, masonry or other structurally sound material as
approved by the Director of Planning and Development that significantly screens
the equipment is a non-contrasting soft earth tone color to match the nearby
surroundings as nearly as possible and meets all applicable building and fire
codes.
            (4)   All facilities shall be inspected by the Fire Marshal for
compliance with relative fire codes, and the Oil and Gas Inspector prior to
operation of the compressor.
            (5)   Exhaust from any internal combustion engine or compressor,
stationary or mounted on wheels shall not be discharged into the open air
unless it is equipped with an exhaust muffler, or mufflers or an exhaust
muffler box constructed of noncombustible materials sufficient to suppress
noise and disruptive vibrations and prevent the escape of noxious oil and
gases, fumes or ignited carbon or soot.
         d.   Line compressors shall be permitted in all other zoning districts
only by a special exception granted by the City Council, which has been
reviewed by the Planning Commission. In order to grant a special exception, the
line compressor must meet the minimum
standards of "I1" restricted light industrial district and a site plat must be
submitted and approved by the board. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall grant
the application only when the board determines that the location of the
compressor is clearly defined on the site plan by the applicant; and the
exception will be compatible with the existing uses and the development of
adjacent properties either as filed, or subject to such requirements as the
board finds necessary to protect and maintain the stability of adjacent
properties.
         e.   All compressor and associated equipment and buildings shall be
enclosed by a six (6) foot security fence constructed per Section 66-162
"fences and landscaping" of this article.
         f.   One three (3) inch caliper tree shall be planted every forty (40)
linear feet along the property line abutting a public right-of-way. No heavy
equipment, including but not limited to trucks, tractors, trailers, bulldozers,
bobcat tractors, trenchers, compressors and hoists shall be allow inside the
critical root zone of any protected tree on any compressor site without the
specific approval of the City. This requirement shall supersede other
landscaping requirements, except for the tree preservation and/or planting
percentage requirements in Section
66-162.
         g.   All equipment, that is located in or within one thousand (1,000)
feet of residentially used property or from the public right-of-way shall be
screened from public view by appropriate landscaping, berming, structure or
wall constructed of metal, masonry or other structurally sound material as
approved by the Director of Planning and Development that significantly screens
the equipment and is painted in a non-contrasting soft earth tone color to
match the nearby surroundings as nearly as possible.
         h.   Secondary containment shall be required around all compressor
stations. All secondary containment must meet the requirements of subsection
(A)(32) of Section 66-161, "technical regulations."
         i.   In addition to the regulations set out above, line compressors
located in "I" light industrial zoning district adjacent to residential zoning
shall be required to meet the following standards:
            (1)   The six (6) foot security fence constructed per Section
66-162 "fences and landscaping" shall be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet
from the residential property line and a minimum of twenty (20) feet from the
public right-of- way.
            (2)   A ten (10) foot landscaped buffer yard along the entire
length of the boundary line between any compressor station site and the
residential zoning shall be required and maintained. The buffer yard shall
consist of an open space of grass and other landscaping that screens or blocks
vision, noise pollutants and other negative by products. The buffer yard shall
be required even when an alley is located between the compressor site and the
residential district.
            (3)   A minimum twenty (20) foot landscaped buffer yard shall be
required along all street frontages across the street from residential zoning
to screen the view of the property from the public rights-of-way.
            (4)   A minimum of one (1) three (3) inch caliper large canopy
tree, as defined in Chapter 6 of the Zoning Ordinance, with a mature height of
twenty-five (25) feet shall be required every forty (40) feet and screening
shall be provided using hedges, berms or mass planting to a height of not less
than twenty-four (24) inches with live groundcover.
            (5)   The buffer yard is intended to serve as a buffer between the
compressor station and the residential zoned property. Structures and equipment
or any type of storage shall not be permitted in the buffer yard.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
Sec 66-162 Fences And Landscaping
   A.   Fences. All pad sites and off-site fracture ponds shall be secured with
a permanent fence with a secured gate and knox box as follows:
      1.   The fence shall be at least six (6) feet in height;
      2.   Support posts shall be set in concrete and shall be imbedded into
the ground to a depth sufficient to maintain the stability of the fence;
provided, however, so long as stability of the fence is maintained, temporary
fence posts shall not be required to be set in concrete;
      3.   The site shall be completely enclosed by a permanent dark green or
black steel chain link or wrought iron fence on at least two (2) sides of the
pad site, one (1) of which will face the City's right-of-way, if applicable. A
solid masonry fence may be constructed on the remaining two (2) sides of the
pad site;
      4.   The chain link fence shall have a minimum thickness of eleven (11)
gauge;
      5.   Posts and rails shall be standard black or dark green welded pipe;
      6.   Tension rods shall be three-eighths (3/8) inch round steel bolt
stock. Adjustable tighteners shall be turnbuckle or equivalent having a six (6)
inch minimum take-up. Tension bars shall have a minimum thickness of one-fourth
(1/4) by three-fourths (3/4) inch; and
      7.   Fences shall not be required on drill sites during initial drilling,
completion or re-working operations as long as twenty-four (24) hour on-site
supervision is provided. A secured entrance gate on the access road containing
a knox box shall be required and all gates are to be kept locked when the
operator or his employees are not on the premises.
   B.   Gate specifications. All chain link fences shall be equipped with at
least one (1) gate. The gate shall meet the following specifications:
      1.   Each gate shall be not less than twelve (12) feet wide and be
composed of two (2) gates, each of which is not less than six (6) feet wide, or
one (1) sliding gate not less than twelve (12) feet wide. If two (2) gates are
used, gates shall latch and lock in the center of the span;
      2.   The gates shall be of black or dark green chain link construction
that meets the applicable specifications, or of other approved material that
are at least as secure as a chain link fence and shall be included in the chain
link or wrought iron portion of the fence;
      3.   The gates shall be provided with a combination catch and locking
attachment device for a padlock, and shall be kept locked except when being
used for access to the site;
      4.   Gates shall be designed so that they do not interfere or obstruct
the public rights-of-way; and
      5.   Operator must provide the Fire Chief with a "knox padlock" or "knox
box with a key" to access the well site to be used only in case of an
emergency.
   C.   Landscaping.
      1.   All oil and gas well, compressor and fracture pond permits will
require tree preservation and/or planting measures. A tree canopy requirement
through preservation and/or planting will apply as follows:
         a.   A forty percent (40%) requirement in one- and two-family
residential zoned areas;
         b.   A thirty percent (30%) tree canopy requirement in multi-family,
institutional and commercial zoned areas; and
         c.   A twenty percent (20%) tree canopy requirement in industrial
zoned areas.
         d.   Payment to the tree fund of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
diameter inch will be required for twenty-five percent (25%) of the removed
trees greater than six (6) inches on pad sites located in agricultural (AG)
zoned areas. The operator may choose to plant a twenty percent (20%) tree
canopy in lieu of payment into the tree fund.
      2.   The following requirements shall apply to all wells, including wells
located along City rights-of-way. Wells located in agricultural (AG) zoned
areas are exempted from the requirements:
         a.   A minimum retention of twenty-five percent (25%) of the existing
trees will be required as with other land uses unless removal necessary for
location of equipment as determined by the Oil and Gas Inspector.
         b.   No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the same species may be
planted at one (1) site.
         c.   A minimum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the planted trees must
be an evergreen species.
         d.   A minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the planted trees must
be located between the oil and gas well site and protected uses or public
right-of-way. An administrative waiver of the seventy-five percent (75%)
placement can be approved by the City with proof that the proposed planting
will screen the views into the well site from the protected uses.
         e.   The percent coverage is established by the actual canopy coverage
area retained and tree plantings. For planted trees, two thousand (2,000)
square feet will be credited for large canopy trees, seven hundred (700) square
feet will be credited for medium canopy trees, and one hundred (100) square
feet will be credited for small canopy trees at normal grow out.
         f.   The minimum size of tree planted will be three (3) inches in
diameter measured one (1) foot above ground level. If the tree is multi-trunk,
the main stem will be given full credit for its diameter and all other stems
will receive one-half (½) credit. The total of all must be three (3) inches or
greater. All planted trees will be credited its canopy coverage at normal grow
out.
         g.   All trees that die within two (2) years of the date of project
completion will be replaced by another replacement tree. The replacement tree
carries the same two (2) year replacement requirement. A replacement of any
tree that dies within two (2) years of planting will be replaced by the
operator or agent and a new two (2) year guarantee will begin at the time of
replacement.
         h.   All other interpretations of the tree canopy coverage and
regulations will be made by the City and/or the designated City board or
commission.
         i.   Landscaping shall be installed no later than one hundred eighty
(180) days after completion of the first well.
      3.   Except as allowed in subsection (C) below, fracture ponds
established for the intent of storing and supplying water for fracturing
operations are required to comply with the City's direction and supervision.
The document shall identify the delineated scope of work area of any surface
disruption related to the "fracture pond" installation, operations and shall
exhibit any existing tree canopy coverage based on the applicable zoning
classification.
      4.   Upon approval of the Assistant Director of Planning and Development-
Oil and Gas Well Division, payment may be made into the City's tree fund at an
amount of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per required tree in lieu of planting
requirements for oil and gas well sites and fracture ponds.
      5.   The following list of trees is considered desirable and adapted
trees for the Purcell area. Planting of trees from this list is acceptable.
Other trees will be considered by the City Forester and granted on a case-by-
case basis. The approval of additional species will be judged on adaptability,
long-term health and growing characteristic of the tree type.
Common Name Scientific Name Canopy Size
Common Name       Scientific Name                Canopy Size
Redbud            Cercis canadensis              Small
Mexican Plum      Prunus mexicana                Small
Cherry Laurel     Prunus caroliniana             Medium
Eve's Necklace    Sophora affinis                Medium
Crab Apple        Malus angustifolia             Medium
Bradford Pear     Pyrus calleryana var. Bradford Medium
Golden Raintree   Koelrueteria paniculata        Medium
Cado Maple        Acer saccharum                 Large
Red Maple         Acer rubrum                    Large
Bigtooth Maple    Acer grandidentatum            Large
Bur Oak           Quercus macrocarpa             Large
Chinquapin Oak    Quercus muhlenbergii           Large
Live Oak          Quercus virginiana             Large
Shumard Red Oak   Quercus shumardii              Large
Oklahoma Red Oak  Quercus texana                 Large
Post oak          Quercus stallata               Large
Blackjack Oak     Quercus marilandica            Large
Pecan             Carya illinoensis              Large
Lacebark Elm      Ulmas parvifolia               Large
Cedar Elm         Ulmas crassifolia              Large
American Elm      Ulmas americana                Large
Bald Cypress      Taxodium distichum             Large
Black Walnut      Carya nigra                    Large
Green Ash         Fraxinus pennsylvanica         Large
Oklahoma Ash      Fraxinus                       Large
Southern Magnolia Magnolia grandiflora           Large
 
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
Sec 66-163 Cleanup And Maintenance
   A.   Cleanup after well servicing. After the well has been completed or
plugged and abandoned, the operator shall clean the site, complete restoration
activities and repair all damage to public property caused by such operations
within sixty (60) days.
   B.   Clean-up after spills, leaks and malfunctions. After any spill, leak or
malfunction, the operator shall remove or cause to be removed to the
satisfaction of the Fire Chief and the Oil and Gas Inspector all waste
materials from any public or private property affected by such spill, leak or
malfunction. Clean-up operations must begin immediately. If the owner fails to
begin site clean-up immediately the Oil and Gas Inspector may then employ any
cleanup expert or experts or other contractors or suppliers of special
services, or may incur any other expenses for labor and material which the Oil
and Gas Inspector deems necessary to clean-up such spill, leak or malfunction.
   C.   Free from debris. The public street entrance and property on which a
well site is located shall at all times be kept free of mud, debris, pools of
water or other liquids, contaminated soil, weeds, brush, trash or other waste
material within a radius of one hundred (100) feet around any separators, tanks
and producing wells.
   D.   Painting. All production equipment shall be painted and maintained at
all times, including wellheads, pumping units, tanks, secondary containment and
buildings or structures. When requiring painting of such facilities, the Oil
and Gas Inspector shall consider the deterioration of the quality of the
material of which such facility or structure is constructed, the degree of
rust, and its appearance. Paint shall be of a neutral color, compatible with
surrounding uses. Neutral colors shall include sand and unobtrusive shades of
black or dark green. No company logos or advertisement shall be allowed.
   E.   Blowouts. In the event of the loss of control of any well, operator
shall immediately take all reasonable steps to regain control regardless of any
other provision of this article and shall notify the Oil and Gas Inspector as
soon as practicable. The Oil and Gas Inspector shall certify in writing,
briefly describing the same, to the City Manager. If the Oil and Gas Inspector,
in his opinion, believes that danger to persons and property exists because of
such loss of well control and that the operator is not taking or is unable to
take all reasonable and necessary steps to regain control of such well, the Oil
and Gas Inspector may then employ any well control expert or experts or other
contractors or suppliers of special services, or may incur any other expenses
for labor and material which the Oil and Gas Inspector deems necessary to
regain control of such well. The City shall then have a valid lien against the
interest in the well of all working interest owners to secure payment of any
expenditure made by the City pursuant to such action of the Oil and Gas
Inspector in gaining control of said well.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
Sec 66-164 Plugged And Abandoned Wells
   A.   Surface requirements for plugged and abandoned well. Whenever
abandonment occurs pursuant to the requirements of the commission, the operator
abandoning shall be responsible for the restoration of the well site to its
original condition as nearly as practicable, in conformity with the regulations
of this article.
   B.   Abandonment shall be approved by the Oil and Gas Inspector after
restoration of the drill site has been accomplished in conformity with the
following requirements at the discretion of the Oil and Gas Inspector:
      1.   The derrick and all appurtenant equipment thereto shall be removed
from drill site;
      2.   All tanks, towers, and other surface installations shall be removed
from the drill site;
      3.   All concrete foundations, piping, wood, guy anchors and other
foreign materials regardless of depth, except surface casing, shall be removed
from the site, unless otherwise directed by the commission;
      4.   All holes and depressions shall be filled with clean, compactible
soil;
      5.   All waste, refuse or waste material shall be removed from the drill
site;
      6.   During abandonment, operator shall comply with all applicable
sections in this article; and
      7.   A five (5) foot no-build easement around the center of the plugged
and abandoned well bore shall be required and recorded in the applicable County
deed records.
   C.   Abandoned well requirement. The operator shall furnish the following to
the Oil and Gas Inspector:
      1.   A copy of the "Form 1001 Notice of Intention to Plug and Abandon"
and "Form 1003 Plugging Record" forms on the same date these forms are
submitted to the commission; and
      2.   A forty-eight (48) hour notice of intention to abandon under the
provisions of this section and stating the date such work will be commenced.
Abandonment may then be commenced on or subsequent to the date so stated.
      All wells shall be abandoned in accordance with the rules of the
commission; however, all well casings and cellars shall be cut and removed to a
depth of at least three (3) feet below the surface. A permanent abandonment
marker pipe, with the well identity and location permanently inscribed, shall
be welded to the casing and shall be at least four (4) inches in diameter with
a length of four (4) feet visible above the ground level.
   D.   Surface reclamation plan requirements. Each operator must submit as
part of the oil and gas well permit application a surface reclamation plan that
must include information outlined in this subsection, in the degree of detail
necessary to demonstrate that full site reclamation can be accomplished.
   The reclamation plan must include:
      1.   Measures to be taken to restore property to allow use under the City
comprehensive plan;
      2.   The control of surface water drainage and of water accumulation and
measures to be taken during the reclamation process to provide for the
protection of the quantity and quality of surface and groundwater systems;
      3.   Cleaning up polluted surface and ground water;
      4.   Backfilling, soil stabilization, compacting, grading, and
appropriate re- vegetation;
      5.   Soil reconstructions, replacement, and stabilization;
      6.   Configuration of the reshaped topography;
      7.   Waste disposal;
      8.   A plan for re-vegetation of affected lands;
      9.   Road reclamation; and
      10.   Other practices necessary to ensure all disturbed areas will be
reclaimed.
   E.   Abandonment requirements prior to new construction. All abandoned or
deserted wells or drill sites shall meet the most current abandonment
requirements of the commission and this article prior to the issuance of any
building permit for development of the property. No structure shall be built
over an abandoned well.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
DIVISION 66-1-8 PIPELINES
   
66-171   Oil And Oil And Gas Pipelines Technical And Permitting Regulations
   
66-172   Salt Water Pipelines
Sec 66-171 Oil And Oil And Gas Pipelines Technical And Permitting Regulations
   A.   General regulations.
      1.   As determined in the sole, but reasonable, discretion of the City,
pipelines may not interfere with or damage existing utilities, including but
not limited to: water, sewer or oil and gas lines, storm drains, electric lines
or the facilities of any public utilities located in public rights-of-way,
utility easements or other City-owned property or in private residential areas.
      2.   The pipeline operator shall be required to comply with all
regulations regarding noise in Section 66-161.B of this article.
      3.   The pipeline operator shall be responsible to grade, level and
restore the property affected by pipeline construction to the same surface
condition, as nearly practicable, as existed before operations were first
commenced within thirty (30) days after completion of the pipeline.
      4.   The pipeline operator shall construct, repair and/or maintain all
pipelines so as to meet or exceed the applicable minimum criteria established
by the statutory or regulatory requirements of the State and federal
governments for such pipeline.
      5.   At least ten (10) days prior to the commencement of any pipeline
construction, the pipeline operator shall give written mailed notice to all
residents, tenants and property owners that are located adjacent to the
proposed pipeline. The mailing shall include the operator's publication on
pipeline safety.
      6.   At the time the required pipeline records are submitted to the
corporation commission, the pipeline operator shall provide the City the
following information, including GPS information sufficient to locate the
pipelines in the future, including the beginning and end points of the pipeline
and sufficient points in between the pipeline route and the depth of cover
information. This information shall be submitted to the City in a format
compatible with the City's own GIS system.
         a.   As-built or record drawings of the pipelines. Accuracy of the
record drawings shall meet a survey level of one (1) foot to fifty thousand
(50,000) feet. The scale of the record drawings shall be a minimum of one (1)
inch to forty (40) feet. The drawings shall also be supplied in a DFF digital
file format with the location tied to at least one (1) nearby GPS (global
positioning system) City monument. If the new pipeline length exceeds one
thousand (1,000) feet within the City, the pipeline shall be tied to at least
two (2) GPS City monuments;
         b.   The origin point and the destination of the pipeline;
         c.   The substance to be transported;
         d.   A copy of the substance material safety data sheet (MSDS);
         e.   Engineering plans, drawings and/or maps with summarized
specifications showing the horizontal location, covering depths, and location
of shutoff valves of the subject pipeline. Drawings shall show the location of
other pipelines and utilities that are crossed or paralleled within fifteen
(15) feet of the pipeline right-of- way;
         f.   Detailed cross-section drawings for all public rights-of-way and
easement crossings on City property as permitted by the City; and
         g.   A list of the names and mailing addresses of all the property
owners, residents and tenants adjacent to the pipeline construction.
      7.   A pipeline operator that transports oil and gas, oil, liquids or
hydrocarbons through a pipeline located in the City shall be a member in good
standing with the One Call system or other approved excavation monitoring
system as required by State law. The pipeline operator that transports oil and
gas, oil, liquids or hydrocarbons through a pipeline shall contract for service
with the selected underground utility coordinating system for a minimum of five
(5) years unless there is an agreement to change to an alternate system between
the City and the pipeline operator. Said pipeline operator shall maintain such
services without interruption for the life of the pipeline permit and as
required under this section.
      8.   At the time of permitting and each year thereafter that the pipeline
remains active, each pipeline operator shall provide to the Oil and Gas
Inspector, the Fire Marshal and the Chief of Police the names, mailing
addresses and telephone numbers of at least two (2) primary persons, officers
or contacts available on a twenty-four (24) hour basis and at least two (2)
alternative persons, officers or contacts to be reached in the event that the
primary contacts are unavailable who:
         a.   Can initiate appropriate actions to respond to an emergency;
         b.   Have access to information on the location of the closest shutoff
valve to any specific point in the City; and
         c.   Can furnish the common name of the material then being carried by
the pipeline.
      Any change in the above information must be provided to the City by
contacting the Oil and Gas Inspector prior to such change.
      9.   Each pipeline operator shall file a copy of all initial or follow-up
reports provided to the U.S. Department of Transportation or the Corporation
Commission of Oklahoma on unsafe pipeline conditions, pipeline emergencies or
pipeline incidents within the City concurrently with the City. In addition,
such pipeline operator shall file any initial or follow-up reports filed with
State and federal environmental regulatory agencies pertaining to pipeline
releases within the City concurrently with the City.
      10.   Every pipeline operator shall be required to file with the City an
annual verified report in letter form on or before June 30 of each year to
cover a reporting period of the previous June 1 through May 31. Said written
report shall contain a statement that the pipeline has no outstanding safety
violations within the City of Purcell as determined in an inspection or audit
by either the Corporation Commission of Oklahoma and/or the U.S. Department of
Transportation with regard to any pipeline operating within the City.
Alternatively, if there are any safety violations as determined by the
corporation commission and/or the U.S. Department of Transportation that have
not been corrected, these shall be described to the City with an action plan to
correct the safety violations. Said action plan shall include a timeline for
corrective action and the individual or firm responsible for each action.
   B.   City regulated pipelines-Permit required.
      1.   City regulated pipelines shall adhere to all standards outlined in
subsection (A). Federal and State statutory or regulatory requirements shall
apply to pipelines between the well and the point of custody transfer. Prior to
the transport of oil and gas, oil, liquids or hydrocarbons, the operator shall
provide to the City certification from a professional engineer registered with
the State of Oklahoma that the design and installation of the pipelines meet
all State and federal requirements.
      2.   Prior to pipeline construction and the issuance of notice required
in subsection (A)(5), a pipeline operator shall obtain a pipeline permit from
the City for all City regulated pipelines. Exceptions to this permitting
requirement are those pipelines from the well to the first point of custody
transfer and for construction necessary to respond to a pipeline emergency.
      3.   At the same time the operator submits a oil and gas well drilling
permit application, the operator shall require the pipeline operator to submit
a proposed pipeline route from the well bore to the transmission line, for all
City regulated pipelines.
      4.   The pipeline operator shall be required to submit an application for
a pipeline permit to the City prior to making any offer or initiating any
negotiation or action to acquire any easement or other property right to
construct, install, maintain, repair, replace, modify, remove or operate a
pipeline in private residential areas.
      5.   The pipeline operator shall backfill all trenches and compact such
trenches to ninety-five percent (95%) standard density proctor in eight (8)
inch lifts and construct the Pipeline so as to maintain a minimum depth of ten
(10) feet below the finished grade except in public rights-of-way, where
minimum cover to the top of the pipe shall be at the discretion of the City
based on existing or planned utilities. During the backfill of any pipeline
excavations in open cut sections, the pipeline operator shall bury "buried
pipeline" warning tape one (1) foot above any such pipeline to warn future
excavators of the presence of a buried pipeline. The Oil and Gas Inspector may
also require that a proposed or existing pipeline be relocated should it
conflict with the proposed alignment and depth of a gravity dependent utility.
      6.   The pipeline operator shall equip all City regulated pipelines with
an automated pressure monitoring system that detects leaks and shuts off any
line or any section of line that develops a leak. In lieu of such system, the
pipeline operator may have twenty-four (24) hour pressure monitoring of the
pipeline system which provides monitoring of the pipeline within the City
limits.
      7.   Review by the Oil and Gas Drilling Review Committee for all proposed
pipelines through private residential areas shall be required prior to the
issuance of a permit for the commencement of pipeline construction.
      8.   A pipeline permit application shall be required as follows:
         a.   Applications for a City regulated pipeline or other activities
regulated by this subsection shall be submitted to the City in a form
prescribed by the City.
         b.   Plans submitted with each application for a pipeline permit shall
be in a format approved by the City showing the dimensions and locations of the
pipeline and related items or facilities, as well as all proposed lift
stations, pumps or other service structures related to such pipeline and the
location, type and size of all existing utilities, drainage, right-of-way and
roadway improvements. The plans must additionally show the elevation and
location of all known public utilities within fifteen (15) feet of the
centerline of the proposed pipeline. Any application that fails to meet these
requirements will be returned unfiled to the applicant.
         c.   The following information shall be provided in the application:
            (1)   The name, business addresses and telephone numbers of the
pipeline operator;
            (2)   The names, titles and telephone numbers of the following:
               (A)   The person signing the application on behalf of the
pipeline operator;
               (B)   The person designated as the principal contact for the
submittal; and
               (C)   The person designated as the twenty-four (24) hour
emergency contact;
            (3)   The origin point and the destination of the proposed subject
pipeline;
            (4)   A text description of the general location of the proposed
subject pipeline;
            (5)   A description of the substance to be transported through the
proposed subject pipeline;
            (6)   A copy of the substance material safety data sheet (MSDS);
            (7)   Engineering plans, drawings and/or maps with summarized
specifications showing the horizontal location, covering depths and location of
shutoff valves of the proposed subject pipeline. To the extent that information
can be obtained, drawings shall show the location of other pipelines and
utilities that will be crossed or paralleled within fifteen (15) feet of the
proposed subject pipeline right-of-way;
            (8)   A description of the consideration given to matters of public
safety and the avoidance, as far as practicable, of existing habitable
structures and private residential areas;
            (9)   Detailed cross section drawings for all public street right-
of-way and easement crossings;
            (10)   The proposed method or methods to be used for the
installation of the pipeline;
            (11)   Methods to be used to prevent both internal and external
corrosion;
            (12)   A binder or certificates of all bonds and insurance; and
            (13)   A proposed alignment strip map showing name and address of
all affected property owners.
   C.   Oil and Gas Drilling Review Committee.
      1.   After the filing of an administratively complete application, the
Oil and Gas Drilling Review Committee shall review all applications for
pipelines located in a private residential area. For other pipeline locations,
an administrative conference may be conducted to seek resolution of any
substantive, non-resolvable technical issues. If deemed necessary by the City,
a third-party technical advisor may be employed as set out in Section 66-181.
The costs associated with the technical advisor shall be borne by the pipeline
operator. Any recommendation by the Oil and Gas Drilling Review Committee to
the planning and development department-Oil and Gas Well Division is final.
      2.   If the Oil and Gas Drilling Review Committee determines that the
City should obtain an independent study or analysis of an application to
construct a new pipeline, upon approval by the City Council, the City shall
engage duly qualified independent consultant(s) or contractor(s) to conduct
such special studies or analyses as required to fully evaluate and act upon an
application for a new pipeline as set forth in Section
66-181. The actual cost for said consultant or contractor, including the cost
of any inspections deemed necessary by the Oil and Gas Drilling Review
Committee or otherwise required, shall be paid by the pipeline operator.
   D.   Pipeline information reporting requirements. If the pipeline operator
has no reporting responsibility to the Corporation Commission of Oklahoma or
the U.S. Department of Transportation and is otherwise exempt from the safety
regulations of either of such agencies, the following documents pertaining to
the preceding reporting period of June 1 through May 31 shall be furnished to
the City:
      1.   Copies of internal reports of responses to pipeline emergencies;
      2.   Current operations and maintenance logs; and
      3.   Current emergency response plan.
   E.   Abandoned pipelines.
      1.   All pipelines shall be maintained in an active condition unless
abandoned according to applicable State and federal regulations. The pipeline
operator shall notify the City within thirty (30) days of abandonment of any
pipeline.
      2.   Reactivation of abandoned pipelines shall require notification to
the City pursuant to the standards and requirements specified in Section
66-171. Reactivation shall require pressure testing for integrity and
compliance with corporation commission and/or United States Department of
Transportation regulations.
   F.   Emergency response plans and emergency incident reporting.
      1.   Each pipeline operator shall maintain written procedures to minimize
the hazards resulting from an emergency. These procedures shall at a minimum
provide for the following:
         a.   Prompt and effective response to emergencies, including but not
limited to the following:
            (1)   Leaks or releases that can impact public health safety or
welfare;
            (2)   Fire or explosions at or in the vicinity of a pipeline or
pipeline easement; and
            (3)   Natural disaster;
            (4)   Effective means to notify and communicate required and
pertinent information to local fire, police and public officials during an
emergency;
            (5)   The availability of personnel, equipment, tools and materials
as necessary at the scene of an emergency;
            (6)   Measures to be taken to reduce public exposure to injury and
probability of accidental death or dismemberment;
            (7)   Emergency shut down and pressure reduction of a pipeline;
            (8)   The safe restoration of service following an emergency or
incident; and
            (9)   A follow-up incident investigation to determine the cause of
the incident and require the implementation of corrective measures.
      2.   Upon discovery of a pipeline emergency or incident, any affected
pipeline operator shall as soon as practical communicate to the City's 911
system the following information:
         a.   A general description of the emergency or incident;
         b.   The location of the emergency or incident;
         c.   The name and telephone number of the person reporting the
emergency or incident;
         d.   The name of the pipeline operator;
         e.   Whether or not any hazardous material is involved and
identification of the hazardous material so involved; and
         f.   Any other information as requested by the emergency dispatcher or
other such official at the time of reporting the emergency or incident.
   G.   Pipeline repairs and maintenance.
      1.   All repairs and maintenance of pipelines are to be performed in
accordance with U.S. Department of Transportation and corporation commission
mechanical integrity requirements.
      2.   If non-emergency repairs necessitate excavation of a pipeline, the
pipeline operator shall send notification to occupants of business
establishments and residential dwellings located adjacent to the pipeline to be
excavated at least five (5) days prior to commencing such repairs.
      3.   If above-ground non-emergency repairs that are not routine
maintenance are required, the pipeline operator shall send notification to
occupants of businesses and residential dwellings located within five hundred
(500) feet from the centerline of the pipeline section to be repaired at least
five (5) days prior to commencing such repairs.
      4.   The notice required in subsections (2) and (3) of this section shall
be sent by U.S. regular mail, postage prepaid mailed at least five (5) days
prior to commencing any non-emergency repair; provided, however, that the
pipeline operator may use hand delivery notice as an alternative, at the
pipeline operator's discretion.
      5.   Inspection of the interior of all regulated pipelines shall comply
with United States Department of Transportation and corporation commission
rules.
   H.   Protection and painting of structures. A pipeline operator shall keep
protected and painted all pipeline risers and all appurtenances related to
pipeline construction and operations which are composed of materials which are
generally protected or painted. Such operator shall repaint all such items at
sufficiently frequent intervals to maintain same in good condition. It shall be
a violation of this article for any pipeline operator to permit any pipeline
riser and/or appurtenances related to pipeline construction and operations to
be in a state of disrepair or to have chipped, peeling or unpainted portions.
   I.   No implied grant of use of public rights-of-way, utility easements or
other City- owned property. Nothing in this subsection grants permission for
the use of any street, public rights-of-way, utility easements, or City-owned
property. In the event a pipeline operator wishes to undertake any pipeline
construction on, over, under, along, or across any public rights-of-way,
utility easements or other City-owned property, the pipeline operator shall
apply for and execute a written agreement with the City governing the terms and
conditions for such use; obtain all required permits and comply with any other
applicable provisions of the City Code.
   J.   Expiration of pipeline permit. If construction of a pipeline has not
commenced within one (1) year of the date of issuance of the pipeline permit,
or if the pipeline has not been completed and the surface restored within two
(2) years, the pipeline permit shall expire; provided, however, that the
Director of Planning and Development services may grant an extension of time
not to exceed an additional one (1) year if the Director of Planning and
Development services determines that weather or other unexpected physical
conditions justify such an extension.
   K.   No assumption of responsibility by City. Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed as an assumption by the City of any responsibility of a
pipeline operator of a pipeline not owned by the City.
   L.   It is the joint and several responsibility of the owner and the
pipeline operator of any and all Pipeline to maintain the markers in accordance
with this article. The location of all new or replacement pipe and pipelines
shall be marked by the owner(s) thereof or by the person installing or
operating such pipelines as follows:
      1.   Marker signs shall be placed at all locations where pipe or
pipelines cross property boundary lines and at each side of a public street or
road right-of-way which the pipe or pipeline crosses;
      2.   The top of all marker signs shall be a minimum of four (4) feet
above ground level, and the support post must be sufficient to support the
marker sign and shall be painted yellow or such other color as may be approved
by the director of transportation and public works or his designee;
      3.   All marker signs shall be a minimum of twelve (12) inches square and
shall be marked as "oil and gas pipe line";
      4.   All marker signs shall contain the name of the owner and operator of
the pipeline and a twenty-four (24) hour local contact number;
      5.   Pipelines shall be marked along their entire length with a buried
metal wire and metallic flag tape;
      6.   All signs shall also contain an OKIE LOCATE designation "Call Before
You Dig" statement; and
      7.   The pipeline operator shall annually replace signage that has been
lost, damaged or removed.
   M.   Annually, all pipeline operators will provide affected landowners,
public official and emergency providers with appropriate public awareness
information as outlined in API 1162.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
Sec 66-172 Salt Water Pipelines
   A.   All references in this subsection to "pipe" or "pipelines" shall mean
"salt water pipelines."
   B.   No pipeline for the transportation of saltwater shall be constructed,
installed, maintained, repaired, replaced, modified, removed or operated within
the City without first obtaining a pipeline permit from the City.
   C.   Saltwater pipe shall be installed beneath all City utilities, no seams
shall be allowed within City right-of-way and minimum cover to the top of the
pipe shall be at the discretion of the City based on existing or planned
utilities. The pipeline crossings must pass through a casing of a design and
constructed in accordance with the United States Department of Transportation
standards set forth in 49 CFR 192.323 (Casing) as same exists on the date of
the adoption of this article.
   D.   All infrastructure included under this section shall be designed and
sealed by a registered professional engineer in the State of Oklahoma.
   E.   All new or replacement pipe or pipelines shall be installed in such a
manner that the pipelines clear the lowest City utility by a minimum of five
(5) feet. In areas where no City utilities are present, pipelines shall be
covered and must be not less than thirty-six (36) inches below the existing
ground level as verified and approved by the inspector. Prior to installation,
the owner of the pipeline shall submit to the Director of Planning and
Development and the Oil and Gas Inspector the pipeline design criteria,
including, but not limited to, operating pressures, pipeline gradient and
elevation to sea level, location, pipe ASTM grade, pipe manufacturer, pipe wall
thickness, pipeline capacity and volume. Prior to and subsequent to
installation of each segment of new or replacement pipeline, the pipe and
pipeline must receive and pass an on-site inspection of the compliance with
design criteria and the process of installation. The design submittal must be
signed and sealed by a professional engineer registered in the State of
Oklahoma. The depth requirements in this subsection shall not apply to piping
constructed or installed within the secondary containment perimeter of the tank
battery, which piping may be placed at ground level.
   F.   Pipe location information shall be provided to the City in an
electronic format acceptable to the Director of Planning and Development.
   G.   It is the joint and several responsibility of the owner and the
operator of any and all pipeline to maintain the markers in accordance with
this article. The location of all new or replacement pipe and pipelines shall
be marked by the owner(s) thereof or by the person installing or operating such
pipelines as follows:
      1.   Marker signs shall be placed at all locations where pipe or
pipelines cross property boundary lines and at each side of a public street or
road right-of-way which the pipe or pipeline crosses;
      2.   The top of all marker signs shall be a minimum of four (4) feet
above ground level, and the support post must be sufficient to support the
marker sign and shall be painted yellow or such other color as may be approved
by the director of transportation and public works or his designee;
      3.   All marker signs shall be a minimum of twelve (12) inches square and
shall be marked as "S.W. Pipe Line";
      4.   All marker signs shall contain the name of the owner and operator of
the pipeline and a twenty-four (24) hour local contact number;
      5.   Pipelines shall be marked along their entire length with a buried
metal wire and metallic flag tape; and
      6.   The pipeline operator shall annually replace signage that has been
lost, damaged or removed.
   H.   General pipeline design requirements. All infrastructure included under
this memorandum shall be designed and sealed by a registered professional
engineer in the State of Oklahoma and all pipelines shall:
      1.   Have a maximum inside diameter of twelve (12) inches;
      2.   Consist of material approved by the City; and
      3.   Be monitored by a SCADA system that allows shutdown via automatic
valves spaced at each wellhead, major pipeline junctions, at the influent and
effluent of the recycling unit(s), and prior to ultimate disposal.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
DIVISION 66-1-9 TECHNICAL ADVISOR
   
66-181   Technical Advisor
Sec 66-181 Technical Advisor
The City may from time to time employ a technical advisor or advisors who are
experienced and educated in the oil and gas industry or the law as it pertains
to oil and gas matters. The function of such advisor(s) shall be to advise,
counsel or represent the City on such matters relating to oil and gas
operations within the City as the City may want or require and the effect
thereof, both present and future, on the health, welfare, comfort of the
citizens of the City. In the event such technical advisor(s) is employed for
the purpose of advising, counseling or representing the City relative to an
operator's unique and particular set of circumstances, case or request relating
to this article, then the cost for such services of such technical advisor(s)
shall be assessed against and paid for by such operator in addition to any fees
or charges assessed pursuant to this article. Prior to the employment of a
technical advisor, the City shall inform the operator of the intended scope of
work and the estimated costs and expenses. The employment of a technical
advisor shall be approved by the City Council.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
DIVISION 66-1-10 APPEALS
   
66-191   Appeals
Sec 66-191 Appeals
   A.   The City Council shall have and exercise the power to hear and
determine appeals where it is alleged there is error or abuse of discretion
regarding the issuance of an oil and gas well permit or the revocation or
suspension of any oil and gas well permit issued hereunder as provided by this
article. Any person or entity whose application is denied by the Oil and Gas
Inspector (other than for distance requirements set out in this article) or
whose oil and gas well permit is suspended or revoked or whose well or
equipment is deemed by the Oil and Gas Inspector to be abandoned may, within
thirty (30) days of the date of the written decision of the Oil and Gas
Inspector file an appeal to the City Council in accordance with the following
procedure:
      1.   An appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed in triplicate with
the City Clerk. The grounds for appeal must be set forth specifically, and the
error described, by the appellant.
      2.   Within forty-five (45) days of receipt of the records, the City
Clerk shall transmit all papers involved in the proceeding, place the matter on
the City Council agenda for hearing and give notice by mail of the time, place
and purpose thereof to appellant and any other party who has requested in
writing to be so notified. No other notice need be given.
   B.   Appeal fees shall be required for every appeal in the amount of three
hundred dollars ($300.00).
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
DIVISION 66-1-11 PENALTY
   
66-199   Penalty
Sec 66-199 Penalty
   A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to do the following:
      1.   Engage in any activity not permitted by the terms of an oil and gas
well permit issued under this article;
      2.   Fail to comply with any condition set forth in an oil and gas well
permit issued under this article; or
      3.   Violate any provision or requirement set forth under this article.
   B.   Any violation of this article shall be punished by a fine of not more
than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per day, subject to applicable State law.
Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   In addition to penalties provided by this article, any person violating
the provisions of this article shall be punished pursuant to the terms of
Section
1-12 of the Purcell Municipal Code.
(Ord. No. 10-08, 7-6-2010)
CHAPTER 70 OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 70-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 70-2 OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
ARTICLE 70-3 OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
ARTICLE 70-4 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH, WELFARE, AND MORALS
ARTICLE 70-5 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Cross reference- Courts, Ch.
30; law enforcement, Ch.
54; traffic and vehicles, Ch.
106.
State Law reference- General municipal powers, 11 O.S. § 22-101 et seq.; crimes
and punishments, 21 O.S.; prevention of public offenses, 22 O.S. § 31 et seq.
ARTICLE 70-1 IN GENERAL
   
70-1   General Penalties
   
70-2   Attempts To Commit An Offense
   
70-3   Aiding In An Offense
   
70-4   Assault, Battery
   
70-5   Misdemeanor Provisions Of The Penal Code Of The State Of Oklahoma
Adopted
Sec 70-1 General Penalties
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any violation of the provisions
of this chapter is punishable as provided in Section 1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 10-701)
Sec 70-2 Attempts To Commit An Offense
   A.   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances
of the City, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such
offense, but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof,
is guilty of an offense.
   B.   If the offense so attempted is punishable by a fine, the offender
convicted of such attempt is punishable by a fine not exceeding one-half (½)
the largest fine which may be imposed upon a conviction of the offense so
attempted.
   C.   If the offense so attempted is punishable by imprisonment and by a
fine, the offender convicted of such attempt may be punished by both
imprisonment and fine not exceeding one-half (½) the longest term of
imprisonment and the fine not exceeding one-half (½) the largest fine which may
be imposed upon a conviction for the offense so attempted.
(Code 1991, § 10-101)
Sec 70-3 Aiding In An Offense
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such act is guilty of an offense and punishable in
the same manner as the principal offender.
(Code 1991, § 10-102)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 42
Sec 70-4 Assault, Battery
   A.   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the City.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, an assault is any willful and
unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to
another. A battery is any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon
the person of another.
   C.   Assault or assault and battery shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(Code 1991, § 10-501)
Sec 70-5 Misdemeanor Provisions Of The Penal Code Of The State Of Oklahoma
Adopted
This misdemeanor provisions of the Penal Code of the State of Oklahoma in Title
21 O.S. Section 1, et seq. are hereby adopted and incorporated in this section
by reference and are enforceable by the City within the City limits as fully as
if set out at length in this section.
ARTICLE 70-2 OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
   
70-31   Petit Larceny Prohibited
   
70-32   Injuring Automobiles And Other Vehicles
   
70-33   Destroying Or Injuring Buildings And Other Property
   
70-34   Placing Signs On Property Of Another
   
70-35   Throwing Or Shooting At Persons Or Property
   
70-36   Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
   
70-37   Throwing Advertising On Street
   
70-38   Throwing Injurious Substances
   
70-39   Injury To Plants And Trees
   
70-40   Public Streets And Trees
   
70-41   Trespass
   
70-42   Parking On Property Of Another
   
70-43   Interference With Fire Hydrants
   
70-44   Leaving Or Depositing Waste On Property
Sec 70-31 Petit Larceny Prohibited
   A.   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not exceeding
five hundred dollars ($500.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent
to deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property
from the person of another.
   B.   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1991, § 10-201)
State Law reference- Petit larceny, 21 O.S. §§ 1704, 1706.
Sec 70-32 Injuring Automobiles And Other Vehicles
It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter,
occupy, or loiter in any automobile or other vehicle belonging to another
without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Code 1991, § 10-202)
Sec 70-33 Destroying Or Injuring Buildings And Other Property
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another, or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use,
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use, provided that this section shall apply
only when the damage, defacement, or destruction is valued at less than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
(Code 1991, § 10-203)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1760.
Sec 70-34 Placing Signs On Property Of Another
It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark,
write, or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill,
placard, device, or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle, or other property
of another without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Code 1991, § 10-204)
Cross reference- Signs, Ch.
86.
Sec 70-35 Throwing Or Shooting At Persons Or Property
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone or other object into
or across any street or alley or in any place where he is likely to hit another
person wrongfully or to injure property or to throw or shoot any stone or other
object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light, or other property of
another, whether public or private, except in cases where such act is done in
defense of oneself, of another person, or of property.
(Code 1991, § 10-205)
Sec 70-36 Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe,
wire, or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire, or other conductor carrying
gas, water, electricity, telephone, or cable television and belonging to a
public utility, whether publicly or privately owned, in such a manner as to
enable him to consume or use the gas, water, electricity, telephone, or cable
signals without it passing through the meter or any other way so as to evade
payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to damage, molest, tamper
with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or other part of any public
utility, including any telegraph or telephone system.
   B.   If any evidence of tampering or damaging of a public utility or private
premises is proven, the owner or occupant of such premises shall be presumed
responsible for the damage and fine.
(Code 1991, § 10-206)
Cross reference- Utilities, Ch.
110.
State Law reference- Larceny of cable television services, 21 O.S. § 1131.
Sec 70-37 Throwing Advertising On Street
It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave, or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter.
(Code 1991, § 10-207)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 70-38 Throwing Injurious Substances
It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw upon
the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive or
other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine with
intent to injure or harass the person, property, or animal.
(Code 1991, § 10-208)
Sec 70-39 Injury To Plants And Trees
It is unlawful for any person to willfully and without authority cut, pull,
pluck, or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs, or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the City or willfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut, or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground or willfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat, or other property situated upon such park or ground.
(Code 1991, § 10-209)
Cross reference- Vegetation, Ch.
114.
Sec 70-40 Public Streets And Trees
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Willfully or wantonly cut, deface, or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys, or public places
within the City;
   B.   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree;
   C.   Dig any hole, ditch, or trench in any public street, road, avenue
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to, or under
the supervision or control of the City;
   D.   Take or remove any dirt, earth, or any substance from any street, road,
alley, or other public place in the City, or to cut, break, or otherwise injure
any pavement, curb, or gutter in the City; or
   E.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without first
securing permission from the City inspector so to do.
   Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done under the
supervision of the street superintendent or City Engineer.
(Code 1991, § 10-210)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; vegetation, Ch.
114.
Sec 70-41 Trespass
   A.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall be defined
as follows:
      1.   Private property means any property other than public property.
      2.   Public property means that property which is dedicated to public use
and over which the federal, State, or City government or any subdivision
thereof exercises control.
      3.   "Trespass" means each and every actual entry upon the premises of an
owner or other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express
or the implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
"Trespass" shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the premises by the
owner, or the agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful
possession of the premises. "Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of
remaining on private property at any time other than during posted hours of
business operation after having been directed to vacate such premises by a
police officer; provided, that the provisions of this sentence shall not apply
to persons, including employees, whose presence upon such premises is
authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises;
nor shall the provisions of this sentence apply unless hours of business
operations are posted upon such premises. "Trespass" shall also be defined as
the act of returning to private property before the posted time of opening for
business operation on the next business day after having been directed to
vacate such premises under the terms of this subsection.
   B.   It is illegal for any person to trespass upon the property of another
or into an area or structure on such property, whether such property, area, or
structure is public or private, when such entrance is plainly forbidden by
signs or otherwise or when the property, area, or structure is enclosed, except
when such entrance is in line of duty or with the expressed or implied consent
of the owner or person in charge or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code 1991, § 10-211)
Sec 70-42 Parking On Property Of Another
It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or implied consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof or when necessary in the performance of a duty or otherwise by
authority of law or ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 10-212)
Sec 70-43 Interference With Fire Hydrants
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the City
utility superintendent or a member of the Fire Department, to open, turn on or
off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with any
fire hydrant or stop cock belonging to the City.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant by
placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in any other
manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant.
(Code 1991, § 10-213)
Cross reference- Fire prevention and protection, Ch.
38.
Sec 70-44 Leaving Or Depositing Waste On Property
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw, or in any manner
leave or abandon any solid waste, including, but not limited to, garbage, tin
cans, bottles, rubbish, vegetation, refuse, or trash on property owned by
another person without the written permission of the owner or occupant of such
property or on any public highway, street or road, drainage area, creek or
river, public parks or recreation areas, or any other public property except
that designated for such use.
   B.   The solid waste disposed of unlawfully as provided in subsection (A) of
this section which contains three (3) or more items bearing a common address in
the form which tends to identify the owner of the items shall be a rebuttable
presumption that all competent persons residing at such address committed the
unlawful act of disposal.
(Code 1991, § 10-214)
ARTICLE 70-3 OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
   
70-71   Disturbing The Peace
   
70-72   Insulting Signs, Literature, Or Language
   
70-73   Fireworks
   
70-74   Storing Or Keeping Explosives
   
70-75   Carrying Weapons; Discharging Firearms
   
70-76   Noise; Music; Amplified Sound
   
70-77   Assemblies
   
70-78   Specific Acts Prohibited
Sec 70-71 Disturbing The Peace
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace.
   B.   Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent, or insulting language or conduct; or
      2.   Challenging to fight or fighting; or
      3.   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably disturb
or alarm the public.
(Code 1991, §§ 10-301, 10-308(A))
Sec 70-72 Insulting Signs, Literature, Or Language
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation within the City to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag, or device which in its common acceptance
is insulting, profane, abusive or violent to the citizens of the City and which
is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to willfully use, utter, publish,
circulate, or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or insulting language
or literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Code 1991, § 10-302)
Sec 70-73 Fireworks
   A.   The term "fireworks" as used in this section, shall be defined as
provided in Title 68 O.S. § 1622.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to manufacture fireworks at any time
within the city limits of Purcell.
   C.   It is unlawful to discharge, fire, explode, or ignite fireworks at any
time within the Purcell city limits, except for municipally sanctioned events.
   D.   Fireworks may be authorized by the city in accordance with the city's
fire prevention code. (Prior Code 1991, § 10-303)
   E.   Retail sales of fireworks is permitted within the city limits in
commercial or agricultural zoned areas and only on either side of U.S. or State
highways between June 15th until July 6th of each year.
   F.   All retail sales of fireworks in the Purcell city limits are subject to
the laws and provisions in Title 68 O.S. § 1621 et seq., except as may be
otherwise amended or modified by the Purcell City Council.
   G.   All retail firework sales facilities located in the city limits shall
possess a city sales permit and Oklahoma sales tax permit that are in
compliance with Title 68 O.S. § 1621 et seq. prior to the selling of any
fireworks.
   H.   All distributors and sellers of fireworks within the Purcell city
limits must obtain a city sales permit in the amount of $750.00 from the Code
Enforcement office prior to June 15 of the current year. The permit fee
includes a $250.00 refundable deposit that shall be refunded to the permit
holder upon presentation of timely and accurate sales tax proceeds to the City
Clerk as required by taxation provisions in Chapter 98 contained herein.
   I.   The Fire Marshal or his/her designee shall have the authority to close
those firework stands that are found not to be in compliance with state and
local laws. The policies concerning closure and compliance shall be determined
by the Purcell Code Enforcement staff.
   J.   The front of all fireworks stands shall be fully exposed for ingress
and egress to the public during hours of sales operations.
   K.   The city sales permit fee includes 3 site inspections as defined on the
Fireworks Permit Application. A failure of the permit holder to be in
compliance at the conclusion of the third site inspection will result in the
permit holder receiving a written warning of compliance failure with written
instructions to cure the failure to be in compliance and a deadline date and
time for a fourth inspection. If the permit holder fails to comply with the
written instructions, the permit holder will be assessed a compliance fee of
$100.00. After the fourth inspection, the permit holder will be assessed a
$100.00 inspection fee for every site inspection required to receive written
approval to sell fireworks.
   L.   All $100.00 site inspection fees assessed shall be paid to the City of
Purcell Code Enforcement Office prior to receiving written approval to sell
fireworks.
   M.   Removal of stands. All temporary firework stands and structures for the
sale of fireworks and related items must be taken down and/or removed from
their location within 15 days after the authorized discharge date. The area
wherein the stand or structure was located shall be returned to its prior
condition by picking up all refuse pertaining to the operation of the fireworks
stand or structure.
   N.   All locations for firework sales must be approved by the fire Marshal
before a permit will be issued.
   O.   As prescribed by the Oklahoma State Fire Marshal, compliance with all
state statutes is required; including all electrical wiring which must comply
with the current national electric code.
   P.   The City of Purcell Fire Marshal, or his/her designee, will conduct the
inspections of each permit site. The Fire Marshal's office shall follow all
city and state laws and the State Fire Marshal's regulations and guidelines
provided by the 2018 IFC fire code.
   Q.   A detailed site plan must accompany each application.
   R.   Violation of any law, ordinance, rule, regulation, or firework sales
policy regarding fireworks will result in revocation of permit.
   S.   Incomplete applications will not be accepted.
(Code 1991, § 10-303; Ord. No. 08-06, § 1, 6-9-2008; Ord. No. 16-02, § I, 3-7-
2016)
State Law reference—Fireworks, Title 68 O.S. § 1621 et seq.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 22-04 on 4/11/2022
Amended by Ord. 23-05 on 4/3/2023
Sec 70-74 Storing Or Keeping Explosives
It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep within the City any
explosive, as defined in 63 O.S. § 121.1, except that gunpowder may be kept as
provided by federal, State, and City laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations
in the amounts specified therein.
(Code 1991, § 10-304)
Cross reference- Environment, Ch.
34; fire prevention and protection, Ch.
38.
Sec 70-75 Carrying Weapons; Discharging Firearms
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry upon or about his person,
or in a purse or other container belonging to the person, any dagger, bowie
knife, dirk knife, switchblade knife, spring type knife, sword cane, knife
having a blade which opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button,
spring, or other device in the handle of the knife, blackjack, loaded cane,
billy, hand chain, metal knuckles, or any other offensive weapon, whether such
weapon be concealed or unconcealed, except when doing so as permitted by State
law.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm in the City except
when doing so in line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself or
another person or of property, or when otherwise authorized by State law or
ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 10-305)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1272; municipal regulation
of weapons, 11 O.S. § 22-110; Oklahoma Firearms Act of 1971, 21 O.S. § 1289.1
et seq.
Sec 70-76 Noise; Music; Amplified Sound
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part of
the City by operating, or causing, or permitting to be operated any
contrivance, whether electric or not, with or without a loud speaker, in such a
manner as to emit loud music, noise, or words. However, this section shall not
prohibit religious bodies from playing chimes, bells, carillons, or other
religious music, and will not prohibit drag boat racing conducted pursuant to a
permit issued by the City Manager.
(Code 1991, § 10-307; Ord. No. 07-03, § 2, 1-8-2007)
Cross reference- Noise, § 34-26 et seq.
Sec 70-77 Assemblies
   A.   It is unlawful and constitutes an unlawful assembly for a person to
assemble or act in concert with one (1) or more persons for the purpose of
doing any unlawful act against the peace or to the terror of others.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to willfully disturb, interrupt,
disquiet, or break up any assemblage of people:
      1.   Meeting for religious worship, as provided in 21 O.S. § 916; or
      2.   Meeting for any other lawful purpose;
      by making noise, by rude, indecent, or improper behavior, by profane,
improper, or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the place of
assembly or within hearing distance thereof.
(Code 1991, § 10-308(B)(H)(D))
Sec 70-78 Specific Acts Prohibited
   A.   It is unlawful to remain in or be about a public or private place for
any of the following purposes:
      1.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice, or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      2.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      3.   For the purpose of engaging in theft or breaking and entering any
building, property, or automobile of another;
      4.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting, or defacing any
property of another;
      5.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      6.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms, provided that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable, or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
      7.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading, or otherwise
exchanging, procuring, or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
   B.   Any unlawful possession of property that is used in connection with any
offense referred to in subsection (A) of this section may be deemed to be
possession for the purpose of such use.
(Code 1991, § 10-309)
State Law reference- Power to regulate vagrancy, 11 O.S. § 22-123.
ARTICLE 70-4 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH, WELFARE, AND MORALS
DIVISION 70-4-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 70-4-2 PROSTITUTION
DIVISION 70-4-3 MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES HARMFUL TO MINORS
DIVISION 70-4-1 GENERALLY
   
70-106   Consuming Or Inhaling Intoxicants Public Places
   
70-107   Intoxicating Liquors
   
70-108   Marijuana
   
70-109   Disorderly House
   
70-110   Maintaining Or Leasing A Disorderly House
   
70-111   Residents Of And Visitors To Disorderly House
   
70-112   Curfew For Minors
   
70-113   Sleeping On Streets And Other Property Without Consent
   
70-114   Begging And Soliciting Alms
   
70-115   Betting On Or Playing Prohibited Game
   
70-116   Being About Place Where Gambling Is Going On
   
70-117   Obtaining Or Attempting To Obtain Property By Trick Or Deception;
False Statements Or Pretenses; Confidence Game
Sec 70-106 Consuming Or Inhaling Intoxicants Public Places
   A.   Any person who shall, in any public place, or in or upon any passenger
coach, streetcar, or in or upon any other vehicle commonly used for the
transportation of passengers, or in or about any depot, platform, waiting
station or room, drink or otherwise consume any intoxicating liquor unless
authorized by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37 O.S. § 502 et
seq.), intoxicating substance, or intoxicating compound of any kind, or inhale
glue, paint, or other intoxicating substance, or if any person shall be drunk
or intoxicated in any public or private road, or in any passenger coach,
streetcar, or any public place or building, or at any public gathering, from
drinking or consuming such intoxicating liquor, intoxicating substance, or
intoxicating compound or from inhalation of glue, paint, or other intoxicating
substance, or if any person shall be drunk or intoxicated from any cause and
shall disturb the peace of any person, he to shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   "Public place" means any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park,
playground, or place to which the general public has access and a right to
resort for business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A public place
shall include, but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern,
bowling alley, cafe, theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center, and any
other place devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It
shall also include the front or immediate area of the above.
(Code 1991, § 10-401)
Cross reference- Alcoholic beverages, Ch.
6.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 37 O.S. § 8.
Sec 70-107 Intoxicating Liquors
It is unlawful:
   A.   For any person to barter, sell, give away, or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating beverage or low-point beer of any kind except as
permitted by law;
   B.   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating beverage or
low-point beer except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner
convey from place to place in the City any intoxicating beverage or low-point
beer except as permitted by law;
   C.   To be in a place where intoxicating beverage or low-point beer is sold,
bartered, given away, or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
   D.   To keep, maintain, aid, or abet in keeping or maintaining a place where
any intoxicating beverage or low-point beer is sold, bartered, given away, or
otherwise furnished in violation of law.
(Code 1991, § 10-402)
Cross reference- Alcoholic beverages, Ch.
6.
Sec 70-108 Marijuana
   A.   It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana;
      2.   To use, have, or possess marijuana upon or in any street, alley,
place of business, or other public place within the City; or
      3.   To use marijuana in any place within the City except as legally
prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the State.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, "marijuana" means all parts of the
plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof and the
resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin,
but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such
stalks, oil, or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such mature stalks,
except the resin extracted therefrom, fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
(Code 1991, § 10-403)
State Law reference- Uniformed Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, 63 O.S. §
2-101 et seq.
Sec 70-109 Disorderly House
A disorderly house means any structure or vehicle by which the peace, comfort,
health, welfare, or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the people
therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
   A.   The sale, distribution, possession, or use of any controlled dangerous
substance, the sale, distribution, possession, or use of which is declared
unlawful by state statute;
   B.   The violation of any of the ordinances of this City or statutes of this
State regulating the sale, distribution, possession, or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume;
   C.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by State statute or
City ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
   D.   The violation of any State statute or City ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
(Code 1991, § 10-405)
State Law reference- Municipal power to regulate disorderly houses and public
indecencies, 11 O.S. § 22-109.
Sec 70-110 Maintaining Or Leasing A Disorderly House
   A.   No person shall keep, maintain, or aid, abet, or assist in keeping and
maintaining a disorderly house.
   B.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership, or corporation
having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home,
or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease, or otherwise
permit the use of the same for the purpose of keeping therein any disorderly
house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a disorderly
house, no persons, partnership, or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
(Code 1991, § 10-406)
Sec 70-111 Residents Of And Visitors To Disorderly House
No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a disorderly
house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the City shall have
the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not by
circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply to physicians or law
enforcement officers in the discharge of their professional or official duties.
(Code 1991, § 10-407)
Sec 70-112 Curfew For Minors
   A.   Definition of terms applicable to this section. For the purpose of this
section, the following terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this section:
      1.   Minor means any person under the age of eighteen (18).
      2.   Parent means the natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
      3.   Guardian means any person other than a parent who has legal
guardianship of a minor.
      4.   Custodian means any person over the age of twenty-one (21) years who
is in loco parentis to a minor.
      5.   Public place means any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park,
playground, or place to which the general public has access and a right to
resort for business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A public place
shall include, but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern,
bowling alley, cafe, theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center, and any
other place devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It
shall also include the front or immediate area of the above.
   B.   Curfew. It is unlawful for any minor to remain, wander, stroll, or play
in any public place on foot or to cruise about without a set destination in any
vehicle in, about, or upon any public place in the City between the hours of
12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. on any day unless:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian, or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his parent, guardian, or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor; or
      3.   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession, or occupation.
   C.   Knowingly permitting minor to violate curfew prohibited. It is unlawful
for any person, firm, or corporation operating or having charge of any public
place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors between the hours of
curfew designated in subsection (B) of this section.
   D.   Parental responsibility. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian,
custodian, or other adult person having custody or control of any minor to
suffer or permit or by inefficient control to allow such person to be on any
public place within the City between the hours of curfew designated in
subsection (B) of this section. The provisions of this subsection do not apply
if:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian, or other
adult person having the care, custody, or control of the minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed by his parent, guardian. Custodian, or other adult having the care and
custody of the minor; or
      3.   The parent, guardian, or other adult person herein has made a
missing person notification to the City Police Department.
   E.   City Council allowance for special events. The City Council may permit
by resolution or motion procedures for advance notice or registration with the
City of special events or functions sponsored by churches, schools, clubs, or
other organizations which require minors to be out at a later time. The City
Council may also prescribe the procedures for taking into custody minors found
in violation of this section.
   F.   Application to Chief of Police by parents for exemption from
enforcement of these provisions. A parent, guardian, or custodian of such minor
may file a written application directed to the Chief of Police of the City who
may grant a special exemption of enforcement of the curfew provided by this
section being required as to such minor, which exemption shall not exceed five
(5) consecutive days or, in the alternative, two (2) days of any week for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days. All requests shall be filed with the
City Clerk of the City.
   G.   Authority of Chief of Police; request for hearing by aggrieved party.
The Chief of Police shall have the authority to grant or reject any request for
an exemption to enforcement of the curfew provided by this section or may
reduce the time limit of such exemption. However, any applicant for such
exemption, feeling aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police, may file a
request for hearing before the Municipal Judge of the City who shall summarily
hear the same and his judgment shall be final.
   H.   Taking minors into custody by law enforcement officers. Any law
enforcement officer who shall witness a violation of this section may take such
offender into his custody to be prosecuted for such violation, require the
posting of a sufficient bond for such minor's appearance in court, or may place
the minor in the custody of his parents or some responsible person.
   I.   Application of State Statutes. The provisions of this section shall be
subject to the requirements of 10 O.S. § 7303-1.2(E).
(Code 1991, § 10-411)
Sec 70-113 Sleeping On Streets And Other Property Without Consent
It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of 12:00 midnight and sunrise
to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on any property of
another without the express or implied consent of the owner or person in charge
of such place.
(Code 1991, § 10-412)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 70-114 Begging And Soliciting Alms
   A.   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this section,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      1.   Accosting means approaching or speaking to someone in such a manner
as would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the
commission of a criminal act upon his person or upon property in his immediate
possession.
      2.   Ask, beg, or solicit means and includes, without limitation, the
spoken, written, or printed word or such other acts as are conducted in
furtherance of the purpose of obtaining alms.
      3.   Forcing oneself upon the company of another means continuing to
request, beg, or solicit alms from a person after that person has made a
negative response and blocking the passage of the individual addressed or
otherwise engaging in conduct which could reasonably be construed as intended
to compel or force a person to accede to demands.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit money or other things of
value:
      1.   On private property if the owner, tenant, or lawful occupant has
asked the person not to solicit on the property, or has posted a sign clearly
indicating that solicitations are not welcome on the property;
      2.   Within fifteen (15) feet of the entrance to or exist from any public
toilet facility;
      3.   Within fifteen (15) feet of any automated teller machine, provided
that when an automated teller machine is located within an automated teller
machine facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of
the automated teller machine facility;
      4.   Within fifteen (15) feet of any pay telephone, provided that when a
pay telephone is located within a telephone booth or other facility, such
distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the telephone booth or
facility;
      5.   In any public transportation vehicle or in any bus or railroad
station, or within fifteen (15) feet of any bus stop or taxicab stand;
      6.   From any operator of a motor vehicle that is in traffic on a public
street; provided, however, that this subsection (B)(6) shall not apply to
services rendered in connection with emergency repairs requested by the owner
or passengers of such vehicle;
      7.   From any person who is waiting in line for entry to any building,
public or private, including, but not limited to, any residence, business, or
athletic facility; or
      8.   Within fifteen (15) feet of the entrance or exit from any building,
public or private, including, but not limited to, any residence, business, or
athletic facility.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit money or other things of
value:
      1.   By accosting another; or
      2.   By forcing oneself upon the company of another.
(Code 1991, § 10-413)
Sec 70-115 Betting On Or Playing Prohibited Game
   A.   Except as provided in the Oklahoma Charity Games Act (3 O.S. § 401 et
seq.), it shall be unlawful for any person to open, or cause to be opened, or
to conduct, whether for hire or not, or carry on poker, roulette, craps, or any
banking or percentage, or any gambling game played with dice, cards, or any
device for money, checks, credits, or any representatives of value, or either
as owner or employee, whether for hire or not, to deal for those engaged in any
such game.
   B.   Any person who bets or plays at any of such prohibited games, or who
shall bet or play at any games whatsoever, for money, property, checks,
credits, or other representatives of value with cards, dice, or any other
device which may be adapted to or used in playing any game of chance or in
which chance is a material element shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Code 1991, § 10-414)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. §§ 941, 942; municipal power
to prohibit gambling, 11 O.S. § 22-108.
Sec 70-116 Being About Place Where Gambling Is Going On
It is unlawful for any person to be in the immediate vicinity where a person or
persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot machine or
other device, or otherwise.
(Code 1991, § 10-415)
Sec 70-117 Obtaining Or Attempting To Obtain Property By Trick Or Deception;
False Statements Or Pretenses; Confidence Game
   A.   Every person who, with intent to cheat and defraud, shall obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person, firm, or corporation any money, property, or
valuable thing of a value less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) by means or
by use of any trick or deception, or false or fraudulent representation or
statement or pretense, or by any other means or instruments or device commonly
called the "confidence game," or by means or use of any false or bogus checks,
or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument or spurious coin
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   The term "false or bogus check or checks" shall include checks or
orders which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to
pay the same or because the check or order was drawn on a closed account or on
a nonexistent account when such checks or orders are given in exchange for
money or property or in exchange for any benefit or thing of value as against
the maker or drawer thereof. The making, drawing, uttering, or delivering of a
check, draft, or order payment of which is refused by the drawee shall be prima
facie evidence of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in
or credit with such bank or other depository; provided such maker or drawer
shall not have paid the drawee thereof the amount due thereon, together with
the protest fees, within five (5) days from the date the same is presented for
payment; and provided, further, that such check or order is presented for
payment within thirty (30) days after same is delivered and accepted.
(Code 1991, §§ 10-416, 10-417)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. §§ 1541.1, 1541.4.
DIVISION 70-4-2 PROSTITUTION
   
70-141   Definitions
   
70-142   Setting Up Or Operating Place Of Prostitution
   
70-143   Engaging In Prostitution, Etc.; Soliciting Or Procuring; Residing Or
Being In Place For Prohibited Purpose; Aiding, Abetting Or Participating; Child
Prostitution
Sec 70-141 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Anal intercourse means contact between human beings of the genital
organs of one (1) and the anus of another.
   B.   Cunnilingus means any act of oral stimulation of the vulva or clitoris.
   C.   Fellatio means any act of oral stimulation of the penis.
   D.   Lewdness means:
      1.   Any lascivious, lustful, or licentious conduct;
      2.   The giving or receiving of the body for indiscriminate sexual
intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse, or
lascivious, lustful, or licentious conduct with any person not his spouse; or
         a.   Any act in furtherance of such conduct or any appointment or
engagement for prostitution.
   E.   Masturbation means stimulation of the genital organs by manual or other
bodily contact exclusive of sexual intercourse.
   F.   Prostitution means:
      1.   The giving or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse, or lewdness with any
person not his spouse in exchange for money or any other thing of value; or
      2.   The making of any appointment or engagement for sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation, anal intercourse, or lewdness with any
person not his spouse in exchange for money or any other thing of value.
(Code 1991, § 10-404(B))
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1030.
Sec 70-142 Setting Up Or Operating Place Of Prostitution
It shall be unlawful in this City to:
   A.   Keep, set up, maintain, or operate any house, place, building, other
structure, or part thereof, or vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance with the
intent of committing an act of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation.
   B.   Knowingly own any house, place, building, other structure, or part
thereof, or vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance used with the intent of
committing an act of lewdness, assignation, or prostitution, or to let, lease,
or rent, or contract to let, lease, or rent any such place, premises, or
conveyance, or part thereof, to another with knowledge or reasonable cause to
believe that the intention of the lessee or rentee is to use such place,
premises, or conveyance for prostitution, lewdness, or assignation.
   C.   Offer, or to offer to secure, another with the intent of having such
person commit an act of prostitution, or with the intent of having such person
commit any other lewd or indecent act.
   D.   Receive or to offer or agree to receive any person into any house,
place, building, other structure, vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance with
the intent of committing an act of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation or to
permit any person to remain there with such intent.
   E.   Direct, take, or transport, or to offer or agree to take or transport,
or aid or assist in transporting, any person to any house, place, building,
other structure, vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance, or to any other person
with knowledge or having reasonable cause to believe that the intent of such
directing, taking, or transporting is prostitution, lewdness, or assignation.
   F.   Knowingly accept, receive, levy, or appropriate any money or other
thing of value without consideration from a prostitute or from the proceeds of
any person engaged in prostitution.
(Code 1991, § 10-404(A))
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1028.
Sec 70-143 Engaging In Prostitution, Etc.; Soliciting Or Procuring; Residing Or
Being In Place For Prohibited Purpose; Aiding, Abetting Or Participating; Child
Prostitution
   A.   It shall be unlawful:
      1.   To engage in prostitution, lewdness, or assignation;
      2.   To solicit, induce, entice, or procure another to commit an act of
lewdness, assignation, or prostitution with himself or herself;
      3.   To reside in, enter, or remain in any house, place, building, or
other structure, or to enter or remain in any vehicle, trailer, or other
conveyance, with the intent of committing an act of prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation; or
      4.   To aid, abet, or participate in the doing of any of the acts
prohibited in subsection (A)(1), (2) or (3) of this section.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1029.
DIVISION 70-4-3 MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES HARMFUL TO MINORS
   
70-166   Definitions
   
70-167   Prohibited Acts
   
70-168   Violations; Penalties
Sec 70-166 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   A reasonable bona fide attempt means an attempt to ascertain the true
age of the minor by requiring production of a driver's license, marriage
license, birth certificate, or other governmental or educational identification
card or paper and not relying solely on the oral allegations or apparent age of
the minor.
   B.   CD-ROM means a compact disk with read only memory which has the
capacity to store audio, video, and written materials and may be used by a
computer to play or display materials harmful to minors.
   C.   Harmful to minors means that quality of any description, exhibition,
presentation, or representation, in whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct,
sexual excitement, or sadomasochistic abuse when the material or performance,
taken as a whole, has the following characteristics:
      1.   The average person eighteen (18) years of age or older applying
contemporary community standards would find that the material or performance
has a predominant tendency to appeal to a prurient interest in sex to minors;
      2.   The average person eighteen (18) years of age or older applying
contemporary community standards would find that the material or performance
depicts or describes nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or
sadomasochistic abuse in a manner that is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community with respect to what is suitable for minors;
and
      3.   The material or performance lacks serious literary, scientific,
medical, artistic, or political value for minors.
   D.   Knowingly means having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a
belief or ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of
both:
      1.   The character and content of any material or performance which is
reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
      2.   The age of the minor. However, an honest mistake shall constitute an
excuse from liability pursuant to this division if the defendant made a
reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
   E.   Magnetic disk memory means a memory system that stores and retrieves
binary data on record-like metal or plastic disks coated with a magnetic
material, including, but not limited to, floppy diskettes.
   F.   Magnetic tape memory means a memory system that stores and retrieves
binary data on magnetic recording tape.
   G.   Material means any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print,
picture, figure, image, description, motion picture film, record, recording
tape, CD-ROM disk, magnetic disk memory, magnetic tape memory, or video tape.
   H.   Minor means any unmarried person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   I.   Nudity means the:
      1.   Showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering;
      2.   Showing of the female breast with less than a full opaque covering
or any portion of the female breast below the top of the nipple; or
      3.   Depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   J.   Performance means any motion picture, film, video tape, played record,
phonograph or tape, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance, or other
exhibition performed or presented to or before an audience of one (1) or more,
with or without consideration.
   K.   Person means any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or
other legal entity of any kind.
   L.   Sadomasochistic abuse means flagellation or torture by or upon a person
clothed or naked or the condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of one (1) so clothed or naked.
   M.   Sexual conduct means acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual
intercourse, or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals,
pubic area, buttocks, or if such person be a female, breast.
   N.   Sexual excitement means the condition of human male or female genitals
when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
(Code 1991, § 10-409)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1040.75.
Sec 70-167 Prohibited Acts
No person, including, but not limited to, any persons having custody, control,
or supervision of any commercial establishment, shall knowingly:
   A.   Display material which is harmful to minors in such a way that minors,
as a part of the invited general public, will be exposed to view such material;
provided, however, a person shall be deemed not to have "displayed" material
harmful to minors if the material is kept behind devices commonly known as
"blinder racks" so that the lower two-thirds (2/3) of the material is not
exposed to view;
   B.   Sell, furnish, present, distribute, allow to view, or otherwise
disseminate to a minor, with or without consideration, any material which is
harmful to minors; or
   C.   Present to a minor or participate in presenting to a minor, with or
without consideration, any performance which is harmful to a minor.
(Code 1991, § 10-410)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1040.76.
Sec 70-168 Violations; Penalties
Any person convicted of violating any provision of Section
70-167 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined a sum not exceeding
one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day that any violation of Section
70-167 occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as a separate violation. Every act or transaction prohibited by
Section
70-167 shall constitute a separate offense as to each item, issue, or title
involved and shall be punishable as such. For the purpose of this section,
multiple copies of the same identical title monthly issue, volume and number
issue, or other such identical material as prohibited by Section
70-167 shall constitute a single offense.
(Code 1991, § 10-410)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1040.77.
ARTICLE 70-5 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
   
70-196   Assisting An Officer
   
70-197   Resisting Public Officials
   
70-198   Rescuing Prisoners
   
70-199   Escape Of Prisoners
   
70-200   Impersonating Officer Or Employee
   
70-201   False Reporting Of Crime Or Fire
   
70-202   False Representation To Officer, Employee
   
70-203   Removal Of Barricades
   
70-204   Eluding Police Officer
Cross reference- Law enforcement, Ch.
54.
Sec 70-196 Assisting An Officer
   A.   An officer of the City making or about to make an arrest, or retaking
or about to retake a person, who has escaped from legal custody, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the City or with State or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray, or unlawful assembly, may call upon person or persons
to assist him in making such arrest, retaking such person, executing such
process, or suppressing such riot, affray, or unlawful assembly.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the City to neglect refuse, or fail to do so.
(Code 1991, § 10-602)
Sec 70-197 Resisting Public Officials
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, without justifiable or excusable cause,
knowingly or willfully to:
      1.   Resist, oppose, obstruct, or in any way interfere with the Chief of
Police, any other police officer or other officer of the law, or any person
duly authorized to act as such, the Municipal Judge, or any other officer or
employee of the City while such person is discharging or attempting to
discharge his official duties;
      2.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties;
      3.   Commit any assault upon the person of or revile, abuse, be
disrespectful to, use abusive or indecent language toward or about any such
officer or employee while such officer or employee is in the discharge of his
official duties;
      4.   Warn or signal another so as to assist such other person to flee,
escape, or evade an officer seeking to make an arrest or for any person to bar
or lock any door or barrier in the face of or in front of an approaching
officer.
   B.   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to or
obstruction of an individual acting in his official capacity and authorized by
law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property or to serve any lawful
process or court order when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
   C.   The words "obstruction of" shall, in addition to their common meaning,
include:
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest or before he
is under arrest; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer.
(Code 1991, §§ 10-601, 10-603, 10-610)
Sec 70-198 Rescuing Prisoners
It is unlawful for any person, by force or fraud or in any other illegal
manner, to set at liberty, rescue, or attempt to set at liberty any prisoner or
prisoners from any officer or employee of the City having legal custody of the
same or from the City jailer other place of confinement by the City or to
assist such prisoner in any manner to escape from such prison or custody either
before or after conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement.
Provided, however, that this section shall not apply in any case where the
prisoner in question is in custody upon a charge or conviction of a felony.
(Code 1991, § 10-604)
Sec 70-199 Escape Of Prisoners
It is unlawful for any person confined in the City jail or other place of
confinement by the City, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the City in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the City, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison, or custody. Provided, however, that this section shall not apply in any
case where the prisoner in question is in custody upon a charge or conviction
of a felony.
(Code 1991, § 10-605)
Sec 70-200 Impersonating Officer Or Employee
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of
the City, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the City,
or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or powers of
an officer or employee of the City without being duly authorized to do so.
Provided, however, that when such person impersonated, represents himself to
be, or acts as a police officer as described in this section, the fine that may
be imposed upon such person shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   This section shall not be so construed as to prevent private persons
from making arrests for offenses committed in their presence.
(Code 1991, § 10-606)
Sec 70-201 False Reporting Of Crime Or Fire
   A.   It shall be unlawful to willfully, knowingly, and without probable
cause make a false report to any person of any crime or circumstances
indicating the possibility of crime having been committed, including the
unlawful taking of personal property, which report causes or encourages the
exercise of police action or investigation, and any person violating the
provisions hereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to report, or cause to be reported,
directly or indirectly, the existence of a fire to the Fire Department, fire
station, or other agency charged with the responsibility of extinguishing
fires, unless such person knows or reasonably believes that such fire is in
existence.
(Code 1991, § 10-607)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. §§ 589, 1851.
Sec 70-202 False Representation To Officer, Employee
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee, or agency of the City government in any official application to or
official dealing or negotiation with such officer or agency.
(Code 1991, § 10-608)
Sec 70-203 Removal Of Barricades
It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the City to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk, or other area.
(Code 1991, § 10-609)
Sec 70-204 Eluding Police Officer
It is unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual
and audible signal, a red light and a siren, from a police officer driving a
motor vehicle showing the same to be an official police vehicle, directing the
operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, to willfully increase his speed or
extinguish his lights in an attempt to elude such police officer or willfully
attempt in any other manner to elude the police officer or who does elude such
police officer.
(Code 1991, § 10-611)
CHAPTER 74 PARKS AND RECREATION
   
74-1   Rules For Use Of Recreational Facilities
   
74-2   Fees To Be Determined
   
74-3   City Lake; Fishing, Boating, Swimming, Camping, Picnics
   
74-4   Penalty
Cross reference- Environment, Ch.
34; natural resources, Ch.
66; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; parks, open spaces, and natural features, §
94-179; vegetation, Ch.
114.
State Law reference- Municipal acquisition of park property, 11 O.S. §§ 22-104
and 36-401 et seq.; municipal parks and recreation, 11 O.S. §§ 33-101 et seq.;
reservoirs, 11 O.S. § 37-102; improvement districts, 11 O.S. §§ 39-101 et seq.;
City-County Park and Recreation Act of Oklahoma, 19 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.;
public bathing places, 63 O.S. §§ 1-1013 et seq.
Sec 74-1 Rules For Use Of Recreational Facilities
The City Council shall adopt and enforce such rules, regulations, and other
requirements as it deems necessary or expedient in connection with the use of
all recreational and park facilities, hunting, swimming, fishing or boating
privileges, owned or operated by the City.
(Code 1991, § 11-101)
Sec 74-2 Fees To Be Determined
The City shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such park or recreational privileges on any property or facility for
recreational purposes owned or operated by the City.
(Code 1991, § 11-102)
Sec 74-3 City Lake; Fishing, Boating, Swimming, Camping, Picnics
   A.   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the term "City Lake"
means and includes the reservoir presently known as the City Lake, the canal,
and all City owned land immediately surrounding land adjacent thereto.
   B.   Means and methods of catching fish restricted. It is unlawful for any
person to use, set, or otherwise employ any hoop, net, trotline, trammel net,
or any seine or to use dynamite or other explosives in any stream or waters
within this City for the purpose of catching fish. This does not prohibit the
use of minnow nets for catching minnows.
   C.   Operation of motor boats. It is permissible to operate motor boats on
the City Lake, provided that all boats must be operated at a no-wake speed of
six (6) miles per hour or less. All boats must comply with applicable federal
and State statutes with regard to operation, safety, and required boating
equipment.
   D.   Use of picnic or camping grounds. All persons holding picnics or
camping on the City Lake watershed must properly clean up and destroy or remove
all trash and refuse prior to leaving the grounds. All fires must be properly
extinguished before leaving the grounds or campsite.
   E.   Determination of fees. Fees for municipal travel trailer hookups shall
be as determined by motion of the City Council and for the public works
authority.
   F.   Dumping of garbage, sewage, etc., prohibited. No offal, garbage, or
other trash shall be dumped or placed in the City Lake or on the land belonging
to the City or the watershed of the lake. No sewage or drainage of any fluid,
other than rainwater, may be drained or put into the City Lake.
   G.   Wading prohibited. No wading shall be permitted in the City Lake at any
time, other than in areas designated for and clearly marked as swimming areas
except those who are fishing in areas designated for fishing.
   H.   Swimming prohibited. No swimming shall be permitted in the City Lake at
any time, other than in areas designated for and clearly marked as swimming
areas and those who swim shall adhere to the following regulations, to-wit:
      1.   Proper swim attire is required. Infants must have approved swim
diapers or rubber pants with tight fitting legs.
      2.   Persons under age 13 must wear a U.S. Coast Guard approved personal
flotation device of proper size and fit when in the water.
      3.   No pets are allowed on beach property except service dogs.
      4.   Swim beaches will close at sunset and re-open at sunrise.
      5.   Fishing in the swimming area is prohibited.
      6.   No alcoholic beverages are allowed on city property.
      7.   Glass containers are prohibited.
      8.   Swimming is strictly at your own risk as there is no lifeguard on
duty at any time.
   I.   Use of roads required. All vehicles, including four-wheel-drive
vehicles and motorcycles, shall remain on and use only those maintained
roadways within the City Lake area.
   J.   Overnight camping. Overnight camping on City land in the City Lake
area, or any other City-owned land is prohibited, unless permitted in areas
specifically designated by the City Manager:
      1.   The term "camping" is defined as the erection of a shelter for the
purpose of sleeping or housing individuals for any period of time from one-half
(½) hour before sunset to one-half (½) hour after sunrise.
      2.   Further, no person may remain on City property from one-half (½)
hour before sunset to one-half (1/2) hour after sunrise for the purpose of
camping, residing, occupying, and/or sleeping in a shelter such as a tent, RV
trailer, motorized vehicle, etc., without a permit.
      3.   A permit shall be obtained from the office of the City Clerk for all
permitted camping, for a fee and deposit before a permit can be issued. The
deposit shall be refunded, fully or partially, only when an inspection of the
campsite indicates that the site is free of trash, garbage or other litter.
      4.   A camping permit shall be valid only for a period of thirty-six (36)
consecutive hours. Permits are limited to two (2) per person/event per calendar
year.
      5.   A permit may only be issued to local nonprofit organizations
generally recognized as being a sponsor of camping related programs, with
acceptable adult supervision.
      6.   Permits are to be secured thirty (30) days in advance of the planned
camping event. No camping shall be permitted within thirty (30) feet of the
water's edge.
      7.   City-issued camping permits are to be displayed in such a manner as
to be visible from established roadways.
   K.   Size of fish removed from Purcell City Lake restricted. It is unlawful
for any person to keep a black bass (large mouth, spotted, and small mouth)
smaller than sixteen (16) inches in total length or a crappie (black and white)
smaller than ten (10) inches in total length. Such fish must be returned to the
water unharmed immediately after being taken from the Purcell City Lake. Total
length is measured from the tip of snout to end of tail, with fish flat on a
ruler, mouth closed and tail lobes pressed together.
(Code 1991, § 11-103; Ord. No. 17-03, § 2, 2-6-2017)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 18-02 on 4/2/2018
Sec 74-4 Penalty
It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this chapter or to
use any of the park or recreational facilities without having complied with the
rules and regulations adopted by the City Council in connection therewith.
Anyone violating any provision of this chapter or any of the rules and
regulations, or failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an offense and
on conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 11-105)
CHAPTER 78 PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
ARTICLE 78-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 78-2 PEDDLING, SOLICITING, AND OUTDOOR SELLING
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
State Law reference- License tax on hawkers, peddlers, etc., 11 O.S. § 22-106;
itinerant merchants, 47 O.S. § 421 et seq.; food, 63 O.S. § 1-1101 et seq.
ARTICLE 78-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 78-2 PEDDLING, SOLICITING, AND OUTDOOR SELLING
DIVISION 78-2-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 78-2-2 PERMIT
DIVISION 78-2-1 GENERALLY
   
78-26   Definitions
   
78-27   Invitation Required To Enter Posted Premises
   
78-28   Enforcement
Sec 78-26 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Host owner means the owner who owns the property the permit applicant
desires to sell upon.
   B.   Outdoor selling means and includes any selling done from a temporary or
mobile location by a seller who is not selling from a permanent business
location. Such activities as street vending and seasonal sales of Christmas
trees to the general public on private property will be included. If rent has
been paid by one other than the established business occupying the property for
the temporary use of the space and if such selling is merely temporary or
seasonal and not done by the established business occupying the property, such
selling will fall within this definition. The term "outdoor selling" applies to
both nonprofit and for profit organizations.
   C.   Peddler means any person who goes from house to house, place to place,
or street to street conveying or transporting goods, wares, or merchandise or
offering or exposing the same for sale or making sales and delivering articles
to the purchasers.
   D.   Person includes the singular and plural and shall also mean and
indicate any natural person, firm or corporation, association, club,
copartnership, or society or any other organization.
   E.   Solicitor means any person who goes from house to house, place to
place, or street to street soliciting sales or taking orders for the sale of
goods, wares, or merchandise, including magazines, books, periodicals, realty,
tangible or intangible personal property of any nature, including insurance,
and such orders are for future delivery or for services to be performed in the
future, irrespective of such person having carrying or exposing for sale a
sample of the subject of such order, and irrespective of such person collecting
or not collecting advance payment on such orders.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-201, 5-7-2001)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec 78-27 Invitation Required To Enter Posted Premises
No peddler or solicitor shall enter any premises or attempt to peddle or
solicit where the owner or occupant of such premises has indicated his desire
not to be contacted for sales or solicitations by the placing of a "No
Solicitors" sign on those premises and such entrance or attempt to peddle or
solicit shall constitute a trespass upon private property.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-202, 5-7-2001)
Sec 78-28 Enforcement
Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus
court costs and/or termination of such person's right to sell.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-211, 5-7-2001)
DIVISION 78-2-2 PERMIT
   
78-56   Required
   
78-57   Application Procedure
   
78-58   Review Of City Clerk's Decision
   
78-59   Permit Issuance
   
78-60   Renewal Of Permits
   
78-61   Revocation Of Permits
   
78-62   Fees
   
78-63   Exemptions
Sec 78-56 Required
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in outdoor selling on private
property in the nature of peddling, street vending, or soliciting within the
corporate limits of the City without first obtaining a permit as provided in
this division.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-203, 5-7-2001)
Sec 78-57 Application Procedure
   A.   Contents of application. Applicants for a permit under this article
must file with the City Clerk a verified sworn application in writing on a form
to be furnished by the City Clerk, which shall give the following information:
      1.   Name and description of applicant.
      2.   Address.
      3.   Brief description of business, goods to be sold, location desired.
      4.   Time period for which applicant wishes to do business.
      5.   License number and description of vehicle to be used, if applicable.
      6.   Verification that applicant is bonded as a group three vendor by the
State Tax Commission or other proof that sales tax has been or is being paid on
the merchandise sold or to be sold, if applicable.
      7.   If applicable, proof that a County health permit has been obtained.
      8.   If applicable, proof that a certificate of inspection has been
obtained from the State Board of Agriculture under the provisions of 2 O.S. §
3-22.
      9.   Photo of the person or persons to be selling.
      10.   Content of signs to be used.
      11.   Site plan depicting the location of any structure, vehicle, sign,
or display to be used while conducting the business.
      12.   Fee is required at the time of filing, as provided in Section 78-62
and shall be paid to the City Clerk.
   B.   Review of application. The City Clerk shall review the application to
ensure:
      1.   That applicant is aware of his responsibility to collect and pay
sales tax and that the applicant is properly registered with the State Tax
Commission. If the applicant is not properly registered with the tax
commission, the permit will not be issued.
      2.   That the chosen location is commercially zoned and does not extend
onto the public right-of-way and or public property.
      3.   That the applicant's business operation will not obstruct a safe
line of
sight from any street or private drive used to exit the subject property or
cause other sight distance-related problems.
      4.   That the applicant's business operations will not reduce the
required off- street parking of the host business.
      5.   That a valid County health permit is obtained, if required.
      6.   That a valid certificate of inspection has been obtained from the
State Board of Agriculture under the provisions of 2 O.S. § 3-22, if required.
   C.   Approval of application. Within seven (7) days after receipt of the
application, the City Clerk shall either approve or disapprove of the
application.
      1.   If the application is approved, the clerk shall issue the permit
within three working days after the approval.
      2.   If the application is not approved, the City Clerk must state with
specificity the reason or reasons for non-approval and the City Clerk shall
notify the applicant within three (3) working days after non-approval. Proper
mailing to the address shown on the application shall be adequate notification
to the applicant.
   D.   Records check. Any person making application to the City of Purcell for
a permit under this section must in addition grant the City of Purcell
permission to run a complete background check on the applicant to include, but
not be limited to, the Oklahoma Supreme Court Network (OSCN) Database and the
Trans Union Database. Any applicant shall further provide the City of Purcell
with an Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation Criminal History report and any
further criminal background checks required by Purcell at applicant's expense.
   E.   Denial of application. The City Clerk may deny the application if any
of the following appear as a result of said background check, to wit:
      1.   Any fraudulent statement, false statement or misrepresentation is
contained in the application for permit;
      2.   The applicant has been convicted of, pled guilty or nolo contendere
to, or received a deferred adjudication in any jurisdiction for any of the
following:
         a.   Any sexually related crime, whether or not such plea, conviction
or adjudication would result in the applicant being determined to be a sexual
predator;
         b.   Any type of assault and battery whether misdemeanor or felony;
         c.   Any judgment, plea, conviction or deferred adjudication involving
any type of criminal or civil fraud or misrepresentation;
         d.   Any crime related to, or associated with, the illegal use and/or
distribution of drugs which shall include alcohol;
         e.   Any conviction, plea or deferred adjudication involving domestic
abuse.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-204, 5-7-2001; Ord. No. 12-11, §§ 1, 2, 10-1-2012; Ord.
No. 17-16, § 1, 8-7-2017)
Sec 78-58 Review Of City Clerk's Decision
   A.   An applicant who has been denied a permit may make written application
setting forth the reasons for relief from portions of this article or defects
in the original permit application to the City Manager. Relief may be granted
by the City Manager upon adequate showing that an undue hardship would be
suffered if not granted.
   B.   After having been denied relief by the City Manager as provided in
subsection (A) of this section, the applicant shall have the right of appeal to
the City Council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Council
within seven (7) days after denial of relief by the City Manager of a written
statement setting forth fully the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall
set the time and place for the hearing and shall notify the applicant at least
seven (7) days prior to such hearing. Proper mailing to the address shown on
the application shall be adequate notification. The decision and order of the
City Council on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-205, 5-7-2001)
Sec 78-59 Permit Issuance
The following provisions shall apply to permits issued pursuant to this
article:
   A.   Permits shall be issued by the City Clerk or his designee.
   B.   A permit must be issued not less than forty-eight (48) hours prior to
any actual selling activity by the applicant.
   C.   Each permit shall be issued for a three (3) day period for each
location. If a change of location is desired during the three (3) day permit
period, the permit will first have to be updated and renewed.
   D.   No permit shall be issued or renewed for more than one three (3) day
period every thirty (30) days.
   E.   Permits may be renewed at the end of the three (3) day period pursuant
to Section
78-60.
   F.   The permit shall be prominently displayed at the applicant's selling
location.
   G.   A current copy of the applicant's State Tax Commission permit is to be
prominently displayed with the City's permit.
   H.   Notwithstanding subsections (C) and (D) of this section, the City
Manager may order such permits to be issued for a longer period as deemed
appropriate, provided that such a period shall not exceed forty-five (45) days.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-206, 5-7-2001)
Sec 78-60 Renewal Of Permits
Upon application to the City Clerk on a form to be provided by the City Clerk
on which the applicant verifies that selling conditions and locations remain
unchanged from the date of approval of the original issuance of the permit, and
if there have been no complaints filed concerning the conduct of applicant's
selling operations, the clerk shall issue a renewal or renewals of such permit
for a period as designated in Section
78-59(C) or for such longer periods as approved by the City Manager, upon
payment of the applicable fee pursuant to Section
78-62.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-207, 5-7-2001)
Sec 78-61 Revocation Of Permits
Permits issued pursuant to this article may be revoked by the City Manager
after notice and hearing for any, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   A.   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the permit.
   B.   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares, or merchandise.
   C.   Any violation of this article.
   D.   Conducting the business for which a permit has been issued under this
article in an unlawful manner, or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace or a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   Appeal from revocation of such permit shall follow the procedure as provided
in Section
78-58(B).
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-208, 5-7-2001)
Sec 78-62 Fees
Appropriate fees will be established by City Council resolution. The City
Council or its designee may waive the permit fee for the local nonprofit
organizations complying to Section
78-63.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-209, 5-7-2001)
Sec 78-63 Exemptions
   A.   Those organizations currently recognized and certified by the State
and/or the federal government as nonprofit may be exempt from Sections
78-57,
78-59, and
78-60, providing the nonprofit organization has a physical place of business
within the corporate limits, or within a twelve (12) mile radius of City Hall,
or is sponsored/sanctioned by a local nonprofit organization that meets on a
regularly scheduled basis within the corporate limits of the City, or within a
twelve (12) mile radius of City Hall.
   B.   A local nonprofit organization may apply for an individual event permit
or an annual permit, coinciding with the City's fiscal year of July 1 through
June 30, with the City Clerk setting forth the dates the organization will be
conducting fund-raising activities by providing the following information:
      1.   Name of adult sponsor/representative, name of organization, and
location of scheduled meetings.
      2.   Address and a contact telephone number.
      3.   Brief description of business and goods to be sold.
      4.   If applicable, proof that a County health permit has been obtained.
      5.   If applicable, proof that a certificate of inspection has been
secured from the State Board of Agriculture under the provisions of 2 O.S. § 3-
22.
   C.   No permit will be required for any local nonprofit organization as
defined in this section if the scheduled fund-raising activity does not exceed
twelve (12) consecutive hours.
(Ord. No. 01-04, § 9-210, 5-7-2001)
CHAPTER 82 PLANNING
ARTICLE 82-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 82-2 PLANNING COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE 82-3 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Cross reference- Administration, Ch.
2; buildings and building regulations, Ch.
14; environment, Ch.
34; floods, Ch.
42; manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62; natural resources, Ch.
66; signs, Ch.
86; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; subdivisions, Ch.
94; utilities, Ch.
110; vegetation, Ch.
114; zoning, Ch.
122; planned residential development, R-6 district, §
122-251 et seq.
State Law reference- Buildings, zoning, and planning, 11 O.S. § 41-101 et seq.;
City Planning Commission, 11 O.S. § 45-101 et seq.
ARTICLE 82-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 82-2 PLANNING COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 82-2-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 82-2-2 CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
Cross reference- Board, commissions, and committees, §
2-56 et seq.
DIVISION 82-2-1 GENERALLY
   
82-26   Regional Planning Commission
   
82-27   Subdivision Review Committee
Sec 82-26 Regional Planning Commission
There is hereby created a Regional Planning Commission for the City. The
members of the Regional Planning Commission shall consist of the members of the
City Planning Commission. The mayor, City Engineer, chairman of the Board of
County Commissioners, and County Engineer shall be ex officio voting members of
the Regional Planning Commission but shall not be counted for purposes of a
quorum. The Regional Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties
outlined in this part of the City Code.
(Code 1991, § 12-111)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 46-101.
Sec 82-27 Subdivision Review Committee
   A.   here is hereby created a Subdivision Review Committee for the City, the
membership of which shall be made up of one (1) representative of each of the
following agencies, as applicable, and such other public officials as the City
Manager may designate:
      1.   City staff;
      2.   Police Department;
      3.   Planning Commission;
      4.   Appropriate public utility companies;
      5.   Utilities staff;
      6.   Fire Department; and
      7.   Health Department.
   B.   It is the responsibility of the Subdivision Review Committee to meet on
call of the City Manager, who shall serve as chairman, to review pre-
application plans, to study the suitability of any proposed subdivision for the
purposes for which it is intended, and to submit their findings and
recommendations to the Planning Commission at the time the preliminary plat is
to be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
(Code 1991, § 12-112)
DIVISION 82-2-2 CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
   
82-51   Created; Membership
   
82-52   Chairman; Secretary
   
82-53   Rules And Regulations; Special Meetings
   
82-54   Powers And Duties
   
82-55   Purposes Of Plan
   
82-56   Subdivision Of Land
   
82-57   Zoning Commission
   
82-58   Uniformity Of Regulations
   
82-59   Purpose Of Regulations; Comprehensive Plan
Sec 82-51 Created; Membership
There is hereby created the City Planning Commission to be composed of five (5)
citizens, all of whom shall reside within the City, and with the mayor and City
Manager as ex officio members. The members of the Planning Commission appointed
as provided in Section
2-86 and shall serve without salary. An effort shall be made to appoint as
members of the Planning Commission persons who are the best qualified to plan
for the future growth and development of, and set goals for, the City as a
whole.
(Code 1991, §§ 12-101, 12-206(82))
Sec 82-52 Chairman; Secretary
Immediately after the appointment and qualification of the members of the
Planning Commission, the commission shall meet and elect one (1) of their
number as chairman and one (1) of their number as secretary. Such officers when
so elected shall serve in their respective capacity until the same date the
next succeeding year when the terms for new commissioners begin, at which time
a chairman and secretary shall be elected for a term of one (1) year, or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
(Code 1991, § 12-102)
Sec 82-53 Rules And Regulations; Special Meetings
The Planning Commission shall prescribe rules and regulations governing and
controlling the transaction of business before it and shall determine a date
and place for regular meetings. The chairman, Mayor, or any three (3) members
may call special meetings of the Planning Commission at any time.
(Code 1991, § 12-103)
Sec 82-54 Powers And Duties
The Planning Commission shall have the power and the duty to prepare and
recommend to the City Council for adoption a comprehensive plan for the
physical development of the City. In conducting its work, the Planning
Commission may consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the
development and betterment of the City and may make recommendations as it may
deem advisable concerning the adoption thereof to the City Council. The
Planning Commission may make or cause to be made surveys, studies, maps, and
plans in the conduct of its activities. Before final action is taken by the
City Council on the location or design of any public building, statue,
memorial, park, boulevard, street and alley, playground, public grounds,
bridge, or change in any location of any street or alley, such question may be
submitted to the Planning Commission for investigation and report. In the
preparation of the comprehensive plan the Planning Commission may from time to
time prepare and recommend to the City Council for adoption a part or parts
thereof, which parts shall cover one (1) or more major geographical divisions
of the City or one (1) or more major elements of the comprehensive plan. The
Planning Commission may from time to time recommend extending, amending, or
changing any portion of the comprehensive plan.
(Code 1991, § 12-105)
Sec 82-55 Purposes Of Plan
In the preparation of the comprehensive plan, the Planning Commission shall
make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions and
future growth of the City and with due regard to its relation to neighboring
territory. The plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of the City
and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best
promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, propriety, and general
welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development,
including, among other things, adequate provisions for traffic, the promotion
of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light and air,
the promotion of healthful and convenient distribution of population, the
promotion of good civic design and arrangement, and wise and sufficient
expenditure of public funds.
(Code 1991, § 12-106)
Sec 82-56 Subdivision Of Land
   A.   The Planning Commission may exercise jurisdiction over subdivision of
land and adopt regulations governing the subdivision of land within its
jurisdiction. Any such regulations, before they become effective, shall be
approved by the City Council and shall be published as provided by law for the
publication of ordinances. All plans, plats, or replats of land laid out in two
(2) or more lots, plats, or parcels, or streets, alleys, or other ways intended
to be dedicated to public use within the corporate limits of the City shall
first be submitted to the Planning Commission for its recommendations.
   B.   The Planning Commission shall, with the help of appropriate City
officials, check the proposed dedications or subdivision of land to ensure
compliance with this chapter and with the comprehensive plan for the City. The
disapproval of any such plan, plat, or replat by the City Council shall be
deemed a refusal of any proposed dedication shown thereon. No plat or replat of
subdivision of land, or dedication of street or alley or other easement, shall
be entitled to record unless it bears the signature of the mayor, attested by
the City Clerk, certifying the approval and acceptance thereof by the City
Council.
(Code 1991, § 12-107)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. §§ 41-106, 45-104.
Sec 82-57 Zoning Commission
The Planning Commission shall also act as the Zoning Commission, which shall
have the power to prepare and to recommend to the City Council for adoption a
zoning plan to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, and size of
buildings and other structures; the percentage of lots that may be occupied;
the size of yards, courts, and other open spaces; the density of population;
and the location and use of buildings, structures, and land for trade,
industry, residence, and other purposes.
(Code 1991, § 12-108)
State Law reference- General zoning power, 11 O.S. § 43-101; zoning commission,
11 O.S. § 43-109.
Sec 82-58 Uniformity Of Regulations
The Planning Commission may recommend the division of the City into districts
of such number, shape, and area as may be deemed best suited to carry out the
zoning plan. All such regulations shall be uniform for each class or kind of
buildings throughout each district, but the regulations in one (1) district may
differ from those in other districts.
(Code 1991, § 12-109)
Sec 82-59 Purpose Of Regulations; Comprehensive Plan
Such regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and
designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide
adequate light and air; to prevent overcrowding of land; to promote historical
preservation; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to facilitate the
adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and
other public requirements. Such regulations shall be made with reasonable
consideration, among other things, as to the character of the district and its
peculiar suitability for particular uses and with a view to conserving the
value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout
the City.
(Code 1991, § 12-110)
ARTICLE 82-3 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
   
82-86   Created
   
82-87   Organization And Procedures
   
82-88   Appeals To Board Of Adjustment
   
82-89   Notice And Hearings
   
82-90   Fees
   
82-91   Powers
   
82-92   Extent Of Relief
   
82-93   Appeals From The Board Of Adjustment
Cross reference- Boards, commissions, and committees, §
2-56 et seq.
Sec 82-86 Created
There is hereby created a Board of Adjustment consisting of five (5) members,
all of whom shall be residents of the City. The Board of Adjustment may be the
same persons as the members of the Planning Commission.
(Code 1991, § 12-120)
Sec 82-87 Organization And Procedures
The Board of Adjustment shall elect one (1) of its members as chairman. The
board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such
other times as the board may determine. The chairman, or, in his absence, the
acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by
subpoena. The board shall keep the minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question or if absent or failing to vote indicating
such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board of
Adjustment and shall be a public record, except as otherwise authorized by law.
All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the public.
(Code 1991, § 12-121)
Sec 82-88 Appeals To Board Of Adjustment
Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
an officer of the City affected by any administrative decision based on these
regulations. Such appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days of such
decision by filing with the City Clerk and the Board of Adjustment a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The City Clerk shall forthwith transmit
to the board all the papers constituting the record of the action from which
the appeal is taken.
(Code 1991, § 12-122)
Sec 82-89 Notice And Hearings
   A.   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
an appeal or other matters referred to it.
   B.   Notice of public hearing before the Board of Adjustment shall be given
by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City and by mailing
written notice by the Clerk of the Board of Adjustment to all owners of
property within a three hundred (300) foot radius of the exterior boundary of
the subject property, error in any order, requirement, decision, a copy of the
published notice may be mailed in lieu of written notice; however, the notice
by publication and written notice shall be published and mailed at least ten
(10) days prior to the hearing.
   C.   The notice, whether by publication or mail, of a public hearing before
the Board of Adjustment shall contain:
      1.   A legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the City;
      2.   The present zoning classification of the property and the nature of
the appeal, variance or exception requested; and
      3.   The date, time, and place of the hearing.
   D.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board
of Adjustment after the notice of appeal has been filed with him that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate a stay would in his opinion cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case the proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of
Adjustment or by a court of record on application or notice to the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(Code 1991, § 12-123)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. §§ 44-108, 44-109.
Sec 82-90 Fees
The City Council shall establish a fee for the hearing of appeals, which shall
be sufficient to defray the cost of publishing the notice of public hearing and
any other costs associated with the hearing. The appellant shall pay such fee
upon filing the appeal.
(Code 1991, § 12-124)
Sec 82-91 Powers
   A.   Generally. The Board of Adjustment shall location have the following
powers:
      1.   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination
made by an administrative official in the enforcement of
Chapter 122. In reaching its decision, the board shall establish firm
guidelines for future administrative actions on like matters.
      2.   Special exceptions. To hear and decide special exceptions to
Chapter 122 to allow a use, or a specifically designated element associated
with a use, which is not permitted by right in a particular district because of
potential adverse effect, but which, if controlled in the particular instance
as to its relationship to the neighborhood and to the general welfare, may be
permitted by the Board of Adjustment, where specifically authorized by
Chapter 122, and in accordance with the substantive and procedural standards of
Chapter 122. In reaching its decision, the board shall not grant the
application if it finds:
         a.   That the use is not specifically permitted under the regulations;
         b.   That the location of proposed activity and improvements are not
clearly defined on the site plan filed by the applicant; or
         c.   That the exception will not be wholly compatible with the use and
permitted development of adjacent properties.
            (1)   Special exception application. An application for a special
exception to use or develop property as specifically authorized in the district
use regulations or in this section may be filed by any person owning the
affected property or by any tenant upon written authorization of the owner.
Such application shall be filed with the board and a copy thereof with the
enforcing officer.
            (2)   Form of appeal or application. Such application shall show
the location and intended use of the site, the names of all the property owners
and existing land uses within three hundred (300) feet, and any other material
pertinent to the request which the Board of Adjustment may require.
            (3)   Public hearing. The Board of Adjustment shall hold one (1) or
more public hearings thereon in accordance with the requirements for notice and
hearings.
Any appeal or application may be withdrawn upon written notice to the enforcing
officer but no appeal shall be withdrawn after posting of hearing notice and
prior to board action thereon without formal consent of the board.
Exceptions to uses may be authorized. The City Council may authorize the Board
of Adjustment to make special exceptions to specific uses allowed within each
zoning category according to
Chapter 122. In appropriate cases and subject to appropriate conditions and
safeguards in harmony with its general purpose and intent and only in
accordance with general or specific provisions contained in
Chapter 122.
      3.   Variances. To authorize in specific cases a variance from the terms,
standards, and criteria that pertain to an allowed use category within a zoning
district as authorized by
Chapter 122 when such cases are shown not to be contrary to the public interest
if, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
Chapter 122 will result in unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of such
chapter shall be observed and substantial justice done. Such variances may be
granted in whole, in part, or upon reasonable conditions only upon a finding by
the Board of Adjustment that:
         a.   The application of this chapter to this particular piece of
property would create an unnecessary hardship, not self-imposed by the owner or
developer;
         b.   Such conditions are peculiar only to the particular piece of
property involved; or
         c.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good or impair the purposes and intent of
Chapter 122 or the comprehensive plan; provided, however, that no variance may
be granted for a use of land or buildings or structures that is prohibited by
this chapter; and
         d.   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum necessary to
alleviate the unnecessary hardship;
         Provided, however, the board shall have no power to authorize
variances as to use except as provided by subsection (A)(4) of this section;
      4.   Oil and gas applications. To hear and decide oil and/or gas
applications or appeals unless prohibited throughout the City by City
ordinance. The Board of Adjustment shall be required to make the findings
prescribed by 11 O.S. § 44-107 in order to grant a variance as to use with
respect to any such application or appeal.
   B.   Extent of relief. In exercising the abovementioned powers, the Board of
Adjustment, in conformity with the provisions of 11 O.S. § 44-105, and the
provisions of this chapter, may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to
that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is
taken. Every decision of the board shall be based upon findings of fact and
every finding of fact shall be supported in the record of proceedings. The
enumerated conditions required to exist on any matter upon which the board is
authorized to pass under these regulations shall be construed as limitations on
the power of the board to act. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
empower the board to change the terms of these regulations or to effect changes
in the zoning districts. The powers of the board shall be so applied that the
terms of these regulations will be strictly enforced.
      1.   Three votes required. The concurring vote of at least three (3)
members of the Board of Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, and decision or determination being appealed from, to decide in
favor of the applicant, or to decide any matter which may properly come before
it under this chapter or State law.
         a.   A member shall disqualify himself from voting whenever he has a
personal or monetary interest in the property under appeal or will be directly
affected by the decision of the board; and
         b.   A member may disqualify himself from voting whenever any
applicant, or his agent, has sought to influence the member's vote on the
appeal, other than in the public hearing;
      2.   Approval of request.
         a.   In approving any request, the board may designate such conditions
in connection therewith in order to secure substantially the objectives of the
regulation or provision to which such variance is granted to provide adequately
for the maintenance of the integrity and character of the zone in which such
permit is granted;
         b.   When necessary, the board may require guarantees, in such form as
it deems proper, to ensure that conditions designated in connection therewith
are being or will be complied with. Where any condition under which a request
has been granted appears to have been violated, the board may hold a public
hearing thereon to determine whether or not the permit theretofore granted
shall be terminated; and
         c.   Upon approval of an application for special exception or of a
variance appeal, the applicant shall apply for occupancy or construction
permits within sixty (60) days after the board's decision unless a greater time
is requested in the application and is authorized by the board. Any approval
may be granted one (1) emergency extension of sixty (60) days on written
request filed with the board before expiration of the original approval.
Failure of the applicant to apply for occupancy or construction permits within
the authorized time period shall void the right to secure such permits except
upon the filing of a new application or appeal.
      3.   Denial of request. No appeal or application that has been denied
shall be further considered by the board under a subsequent request obtained by
filing new plans and obtaining of a new decision from the enforcing officer
unless:
         a.   The new plans materially change the nature of the request; or
         b.   The permitted development of other nearby property in the same
zone has been substantially altered or changed by a ruling of the board so as
to support an allegation of changed conditions.
   C.   Hearing, findings, and record. Exceptions and/or variances may be
allowed by the Board of Adjustment only after notice and hearing as provided in
11 O.S. § 44-108. The record of the meeting at which the variance or special
exception was granted shall show that each element of a variance or special
exception was established at the public hearing on the question, otherwise such
variance or special exception shall be voidable on appeal to the district
court.
(Code 1991, § 12-125)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 44-104.
Sec 82-92 Extent Of Relief
   A.   When exercising the powers provided for in Section
82-91, the Board of Adjustment, in conformity with the provisions of
Chapter 122, may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination from which appealed and may make such
order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made.
   B.   The concurring vote of at least three (3) members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination being appealed from, to decide in favor of the applicant, or to
decide any matter which may properly come before it pursuant to
Chapter 122 and Section
82-91.
(Code 1991, § 12-126)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 44-105.
Sec 82-93 Appeals From The Board Of Adjustment
   A.   Appeal to district court. An appeal from any action, decision, ruling,
judgment, or order of the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or
persons, jointly or severally aggrieved, or any taxpayer or any officer,
department, board, or bureau of the City to the district court in the County in
which the situs of the City is located.
   B.   Filing of notice of appeal. The appeal shall be taken by filing with
the City Clerk and with the clerk of the Board of Adjustment, within sixty (60)
days from the filing of the decision of the board, a notice of appeal. The
notice shall specify the grounds for the appeal. No bond or deposit for costs
shall be required for such appeal.
   C.   Filing of record. Upon filing the notice of appeal, the Board of
Adjustment shall forthwith transmit to the Court Clerk the original, or
certified copies, of all papers constituting the record in the case, together
with the order, decision or ruling of the board.
   D.   Trial de novo. The appeal shall be heard and tried de novo in the
district court. All issues in any proceedings under this section shall have
preference over all other civil actions and proceedings.
   E.   Stay of proceedings. An appeal to the district court from the Board of
Adjustment stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the chairman of the board, from which the appeal is taken, certifies to
the Court Clerk, after the notice of appeal has been filed, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would in his opinion cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the district
court upon application or notice to the administrative officer in charge of the
enforcement of the terms and provisions of
Chapter 122 and upon notice to the chairman of the board from which the appeal
is taken and upon due cause being shown.
   F.   Actions of district court. The district court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or modify the decision brought up for review. Costs shall not
be allowed against the Board of Adjustment unless it shall appear to the
district court that the board acted with gross negligence or in bad faith or
with malice in making the decision appealed from. An appeal shall lie from the
action of the district court as in all other civil actions.
(Code 1991, § 12-127)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 0.S. § 44-110.
CHAPTER 86 SIGNS
   
86-1   Definitions
   
86-2   Violations
   
86-3   Appendix To Building Code Adopted
   
86-4   Signs Over Sidewalks
   
86-5   Political Advertising Signs
   
86-6   Grand Opening and Anniversary Signs
   
86-6-1    Feather Flag Display
   
86-7    Portable Display Surface
   
86-8    Other Restrictions
    
86-9    Exemptions
   
86-10   Permits Not Required for Certain Signs
Cross reference- Buildings and building regulations, Ch.
14; placing signs on property of another, §
70-34; planning, Ch.
82.
State Law reference- Highway Advertising Control Act of 1972, 69 O.S. § 1271 et
seq.
Sec 86-1 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Feather flag means a freestanding sign typically constructed with a
plastic or metal shaft driven in the ground and an attached pennant typically
in the shape of a feather, teardrop or rectangle that is vertically elongated
and attached to the shaft.
   B.   Political advertising sign means any sign or placard printed, painted,
made, or designed for the purpose of furthering or advertising the candidacy of
any person who is or intends to become or may be a candidate for the election
to any public office, whether such public office is in the local, state, or
federal government, or any subdivision thereof.
   C.   Portable display surface means a display surface temporarily fixed to a
standardized advertising structure which is regularly moved from structure to
structure at periodic intervals.
   D.   Sign means any letter, figure, character, mark, plane, point, marquee
sign, design, poster, pictorial, picture, stroke, stripe, line, trademark,
reading matter, or illuminated service which shall be constructed, placed,
attached, painted, erected, fastened, or manufactured in any manner whatsoever,
so that the same shall be used for the attraction of the public to any place,
subject, person, firm, corporation, public performance, article, machine, or
merchandise whatsoever which is displayed in any manner whatsoever outdoors.
Every sign shall be classified and conform to the requirements of that
classification as set forth in this chapter.
   E.   Temporary sign a sign, banner, pennant, balloon or similar device or
display for short-term display (not exceeding ninety (90) days, except where
specified elsewhere in this section) to announce a special event. A lot where a
temporary sign was permitted shall be eligible for another temporary sign
permit only after said permit expires and all temporary signs have been
completely removed for a like period. Said sign may be constructed of cloth,
canvas, cardboard, or other material, with or without a structural frame.
(Code 1991, §§ 5-1201, 5-1204(A))
Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 22-09 on 9/6/2022
Sec 86-2 Violations
Any sign erected, placed, or displayed in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, or otherwise unlawfully erected, placed or displayed, shall be a
public nuisance and may be removed by the City, in addition to any other
penalty imposed for such violation. No property right shall exist in such sign
unlawfully erected, placed, or displayed.
(Code 1991, §§ 5-1204(D), 5-1207(B))
Sec 86-3 Appendix To Building Code Adopted
The latest edition of appendix "H" to the International Building Code,
published by the International Code Council, Inc., three (3) copies of which
are on file in the office of the City Clerk, is adopted for the regulation of
signs as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, and terms appendix "H" of the International Building
Code are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated, and made a part hereof as
if fully set out in this Code with the additions, insertions, deletions, and
changes if any prescribed in this chapter.
(Code 1991, § 5-1202)
Sec 86-4 Signs Over Sidewalks
   A.   No sign shall be placed over or on a sidewalk or other public property
unless a permit is secured from the City Manager therefor.
   B.   A permit will only be issued after the applicant has filed an
application in a form prescribed by the City Manager and the City Manager or
his designee has approved the application.
   C.   The City Manager shall not issue such permit if, in his judgment, the
proposed sign would be or would likely become a danger or hazard to persons or
property, would be unsightly, or would otherwise be prejudicial to the public
welfare.
   D.   After such permit is issued, it shall be unlawful to erect, place, or
construct such sign except in accordance with the plans and specifications
submitted to the City Manager or as the plans and specifications may be changed
by approval of both the City Manager and applicant. Each permit shall only be
valid for twelve (12) consecutive calendar months after its issuance and may be
renewed annually thereafter providing the sign remains in compliance with
applicable codes and fees are paid.
(Code 1991, § 5-1203)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 86-5 Political Advertising Signs
   A.   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect or display any political
advertising sign on any street or alley right-of-way or upon any public utility
easement within this City.
   B.   No person, firm, or corporation shall place, sign face, tack, nail,
staple, or glue any political advertising and sign on any telephone, telegraph,
electric, or street lighting pole within this City.
(Code 1991, § 5-1204(B), (C))
Sec 86-6 Grand Opening and Anniversary Signs
   A.   Grand Opening Signs: All businesses shall be permitted to display grand
opening signs on a one (1) time basis for a maximum of fourteen (14)
consecutive days. Grand opening signs include sign banners, balloons,
streamers, pennants, inflatable structures, merchandise, and other attention-
attracting media and devices, as well as vehicle-mounted signs and portable
display surface. At the end of the fourteen (14) day period, the sign must be
removed.
   B.   Anniversary Signs: All businesses shall be permitted to display signs
meeting the "Grand Opening Sign" requirements, as defined in the foregoing
paragraph, each year on the annual anniversary of the business for a period no
longer than fourteen (14) consecutive days.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 22-09 on 9/6/2022
Sec 86-6-1 Feather Flag Display
A business shall be permitted to display two (2) feather flags on their
property. Placement of feather flags shall not be placed in a public right-of-
way or on upon any utility easement. See notes in header.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 22-09 on 9/6/2022
Sec 86-7 Portable Display Surface
A portable display surface may be used on the premises for a period not to
exceed forty- five (45) days. At the end of the period, the display surface
must be removed. Any vehicle displaying signage or advertising shall be parked
in an assigned parking space which is not immediately adjacent to a street
frontage.
(Code 1991, § 5-1206)
Sec 86-8 Other Restrictions
   A.   A nonpublic sign may not be placed in the public right-of-way or on
public property except as may be authorized by the City. No sign may be placed
on private property without the property owner's written approval.
   B.   General non-accessory signs under one hundred (100) square feet shall
be permitted as uses permitted by right in the C-3, general commercial, and
industrial zoning districts, subject to the following regulations. All general
non- accessory signs over one hundred (100) square feet shall be permitted on
review in the C-3, general commercial, and industrial zoning districts, subject
to the following regulations:
      1.   Sign size.
         a.   In area properly zoned and adjacent the Interstate 35;
            (1)   The display surface shall not be not exceed six hundred
seventy-two (672) square feet per sign face, except for a twenty (20) per
allowance for extension and cutouts.
            (2)   The maximum width of a sign shall be forty-eight (48) feet.
            (3)   Signs exceeding six hundred seventy-two (672) square feet
shall require a variance permit in any zoning district.
         b.   In areas properly zoned and not adjacent to the interstate:
            (1)   The display surface area shall exceed three hundred (300)
square feet.
            (2)   The maximum width of a sign shall be twenty-four (24) feet.
            (3)   Signs shall not have more than one display face facing in any
one direction. Therefore, no stacked or side-by-side faces can be constructed.
      2.   Height.
         a.   In areas properly zoned and adjacent to the interstate.
            (1)   The maximum height of the highest point of the structure
shall be fifty (50) feet above road grade; provided, however, that where the
sign is adjacent to an elevated roadway, then the maximum height shall be
thirty (30) feet above the road grade.
            (2)   The minimum clearance between ground level and the lowest
point of display surface, exclusive of supports, shall not be less than ten
(10) feet.
         b.   In areas properly zoned and not adjacent to the interstate:
            (1)   The maximum height above ground shall be thirty (30) feet.
            (2)   The minimum clearance between ground level and the lowest
point of display surface, exclusive of supports, less than ten (10) feet.
      3.   Spacing.
         a.   In areas properly zoned and adjacent to the interstate,
regardless of size or height, no non-accessory sign shall be constructed,
erected, placed, or replaced closer than one thousand (1,000) feet to another
non-accessory sign facing in the same direction and on the same side of the
roadway from which the sign is intended to be read.
         b.   In area properly zoned and not adjacent to the interstate:
            (1)   No non-accessory sign with a display area of two hundred
(200) square feet or less shall be constructed, erected, placed, or replaced
closer than five hundred (500) feet unless such sign reaches a maximum height
of twenty (20) feet or less, in which case it may be located no closer than two
hundred fifty (250) feet to another non-accessory sign facing in the same
direction and on the same side of the roadway from which the sign is intended
to be read.
            (2)   No non-accessory sign with a display area of more than two
hundred (200) square feet shall be constructed, erected, placed, or replace
closer than five hundred (500) feet to another non-accessory sign facing in the
same direction and on the same side of the roadway from which the sign is
intended to be read.
      4.   Spacing from residentially zoned property. No non-accessory sign
shall be constructed, erected, placed, or replaced closer than one hundred
(100) feet to the nearest residentially zoned property or two hundred fifty
(250) feet to any residence.
      5.   Lighting. Non-accessory signs may be illuminated which are in
compliance with the following conditions and any other applicable ordinances:
         a.   Signs shall not be erected which contain, include, or are
illuminated by any flashing, intermittent, revolving, or moving light.
         b.   Signs shall not be erected or maintained which cause an annoying
glare to any residential neighborhood.
(Code 1991, § 5-1207(A), (D); Ord. No. 00-14, § 1(5-1207), 6-5-2000; Ord. No.
06-14, § 1, 10-2-2006; Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 10-1-2007)
Sec 86-9 Exemptions
The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this code:
   A.   Official governmental notices posted by the agencies in the performance
of their duties i.e., governmental signs to control traffic or for other
regulatory purposes, or to identify streets, or to warn of danger.
   B.   The flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, organization of nations,
state, county or city, any religious, civic, fraternal organization, or any
educational institution. Additionally, one (1) corporate name or logo-bearing
flag not exceeding twenty-four (24) square feet in size.
   C.   Temporary decorations or displays, when such are clearly incidental to
and are customarily and commonly associated with any national, local, or
religious holiday or celebration.
   D.   Temporary or permanent signs erected by public utility companies or
construction companies to warn of danger or hazardous conditions, including
signs indicating the presence of underground cables, gas lines and similar
devices.
   E.   Merchandise, pictures or models of products or services which are
incorporated as an integral part of a window display.
   F.   Directional signs located in the street right-of-way; provided such
signs are approved by the City Manager or his designee.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 22-09 on 9/6/2022
Sec 86-10 Permits Not Required For Certain Signs
All applicable provisions of this Code shall apply, except that setback
requirements shall not apply, nor shall a sign permit or a sign permit fee be
required for the following signs in all zoning districts:
   A.   Nonilluminated identification signs which do not exceed two (2) square
feet per face or four (4) square feet in total surface area; provided such
signs are limited to six (6) feet or less in height and limited to one (1) such
sign per use or per building, whichever is the greater number. These types of
signs shall not be placed in the right-of-way.
   B.   Temporary, nonilluminated real estate signs, including "model home" and
"open house" signs, which do not exceed six (6) square feet per side and twelve
(12) square feet in total area and six (6) feet in height limited to one (1)
such sign per street frontage. Such signs shall not remain in place more than
seven (7) days after the event at the subject property. These types of signs
shall not be placed in the right-of-way.
   C.   Signs in the nature of cornerstones, commemorative tablets and
historical signs which do not exceed four (4) square feet per face in area and
six (6) feet in height, and which are nonilluminated or indirectly illuminated.
   D.   Private traffic directional signs guiding or directing vehicular or
pedestrian traffic onto or off of a lot or within a lot, when such do not
exceed the limitations set forth below for the respective zone and eight (8)
feet in height, do not contain any advertising or trade name identification.
   E.   Signs required or specifically authorized for a public purpose by any
law, statute or ordinance may be of any type, number, area, height above grade,
location or illumination authorized by the law, statute, or ordinance under
which such signs are required or authorized. However, no such sign shall be
placed in the public right-of-way unless specifically authorized or required by
law, statute, or ordinance; and, except for warning signs or barricades of a
temporary nature, such signs shall be permanently affixed to the ground, a
building or other structure.
   F.   Temporary nonilluminated political signs.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 22-09 on 9/6/2022
CHAPTER 90 STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
ARTICLE 90-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 90-2 OBSTRUCTIONS, OBSTACLES, AND ENCROACHMENTS
ARTICLE 90-3 EXCAVATIONS
Cross reference- Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the City saved
from repeal, §
1-7(E); any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any
street in the City saved from repeal, §
1-7(H); any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing charges
for such improvements saved from repeal, §
1-7(I); moving buildings, §
14-406 et seq.; cemeteries, Ch.
22; environment, Ch.
34; floods, Ch.
42; library, Ch.
58; manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62; natural resources, Ch.
66; throwing advertising on street, §
70-37; public streets and trees, §
70-40; sleeping on streets and other property without consent, §
70-113; parks and recreation, Ch.
74; peddlers and solicitors, Ch.
78; planning, Ch.
82; signs over sidewalks, §
86-4; subdivisions, Ch.
94; subdivision design-general provisions, §
94-167; subdivision design for cul-de-sacs and dead-end streets, §
94-169; subdivision improvements for streets and alleys, §
94-211; subdivision improvements for streets and regulatory signs, §
94-213; subdivision improvements for streets lights, §
94-214; telecommunications, Ch.
102; traffic and vehicles, Ch.
106; driving on sidewalk, §
106-129; through streets, §
106-140; riding on sidewalks, §
106-333; leaving junked vehicle on street, §
106-407; utilities, Ch.
110; vegetation, Ch.
114; vehicles for hire, Ch.
118; zoning, Ch.
122.
State Law reference- Municipal regulation of games and amusements on streets
and sidewalks, 11 O.S. § 22-117; municipal roads and streets, 11 O.S. § 36-101
et seq.; improvement districts, 11 O.S. § 39-101 et seq.; cooperation by state,
69 O.S. §§ 303, 317; bridges, 69 O.S. §§ 611, 612; appropriation of highway for
public purpose, dedication of adjacent land, 69 O.S. § 648; obstructions,
nuisances, 69 O.S. § 1208 et seq.
ARTICLE 90-1 IN GENERAL
   
90-1   Penalty
   
90-2   Sidewalk, Gutter Kept Clean, In Good Repair
   
90-3   Pollution Of Street, Alley, Or Sidewalk
   
90-4   Hazardous Sidewalk Or Sidewalk Area
   
90-5   Golf Carts On City Streets
Sec 90-1 Penalty
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as
provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 14-211)
Sec 90-2 Sidewalk, Gutter Kept Clean, In Good Repair
   A.   It is the duty of the occupant of any lot or piece of ground abutting
upon any street where there is a sidewalk to keep such sidewalk clean and to
remove therefrom all materials, trash, weeds, refuse, rubbish, or hazards of
any kind and to keep the sidewalk in good repair. If there is no such occupant
of any such lot other than the owner, it is the duty of the owner to do the
same.
   B.   It is the duty of the occupant of any lot or piece of ground abutting
upon any street where there is a gutter on the street to keep such gutter clean
of household trash. If there is no such occupant of any such lot other than the
owner, it is the duty of the owner to do the same.
   C.   It is the duty of the City of Purcell where there is a gutter on the
street to keep such gutter clean and to remove therefrom all materials, trash,
weeds, refuse, rubbish, or hazards of any kind other than household trash and
to keep the gutter in good repair on an as needed basis.
(Code 1991, § 14-112; Ord. No. 17-18, § 1, 9-7-2017)
Sec 90-3 Pollution Of Street, Alley, Or Sidewalk
It is unlawful for the owner or person in possession of any residence or
business to cause or allow drainage into any street, alley, or sidewalk that
causes pollution of a street, alley, or sidewalk. For the purposes of this
section, "pollution" is defined as provided in 82 O.S. § 1084.2, except that it
applies to streets, alleys, and walks in the City instead of waters of the
state.
(Code 1991, § 14-113)
Sec 90-4 Hazardous Sidewalk Or Sidewalk Area
It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk
area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become
a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(Code 1991, § 14-110)
Sec 90-5 Golf Carts On City Streets
Golf carts shall be allowed on City streets subject to the following
restrictions, to-wit:
   A.   Only those persons who have a legitimate medical condition that keeps
them from being able to walk and/or use other transportation shall be allowed
to operate a golf cart on City streets (does not apply to Chandler Road west of
1-35).
   B.   Golf carts shall be operated only during daylight hours.
   C.   Golf carts shall not be allowed on State highways within the City
limits other than traveling directly across them at intersections.
   D.   The operator must be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   E.   Operators of golf carts must yield to all motor vehicles at
intersections and must operate the golf cart as far to the right of the traffic
lane as possible.
   F.   Operators of golf carts must obey all applicable traffic laws.
(Ord. No. 02-10, § 1, 8-5-2002)
Editor's note- Ord. No. 02-10, § 1, adopted August 5, 2002, did not specify
manner of inclusion; hence, inclusion as § 90-5 is at the discretion of the
editor.
ARTICLE 90-2 OBSTRUCTIONS, OBSTACLES, AND ENCROACHMENTS
   
90-31   Sidewalks, Streets Generally
   
90-32   Playing
   
90-33   Water, Mud From Vehicle
   
90-34   Trash
   
90-35   Businesses Generally
   
90-36   Fluids, Polluting Substances From Businesses
   
90-37   Drainage
   
90-38   Encroachments In Rights-Of-Way And Easements
   
90-39   Obstacles In Street Rights-Of-Way; Notice; Abatement
Sec 90-31 Sidewalks, Streets Generally
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use or obstruct the
sidewalks of the City in any manner so as to with pedestrian traffic thereon or
to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the City in any manner so as to
interfere with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(Code 1991, § 14-104)
Sec 90-32 Playing
It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks, alleys, or upon the
main-traveled portion of the streets and alleys of the City, except as may be
authorized by ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 14-106)
Sec 90-33 Water, Mud From Vehicle
No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the City
where the water, dirt, mud, or other substances removed therefrom by or during
the washing thereof shall drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of the
City.
(Code 1991, § 14-108)
Cross reference- Traffic and vehicles, Ch.
106.
Sec 90-34 Trash
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit, throw, or sweep
into or upon the streets, alleys, parking, or sidewalks of the City any paper,
rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes, or other
refuse of any kind.
(Code 1991, § 14-105)
Sec 90-35 Businesses Generally
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place upon or
permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets, and alleys of the
City any goods, wares, articles of merchandise, or any other obstruction and
leave same thereon or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or
trade.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct,
erect, place, operate, maintain, or permit to exist any ice box, ice dock,
gasoline pump, gasoline storage reservoir, tire rack, tire tools or equipment,
water hose connection, or any tools, stands, equipment, merchandise, or
appurtenances thereof, aerials, poles, or wires therefor, whether permanent or
temporary, or any other obstruction upon any part of any street, alley,
boulevard, parkway, curbing, or parking within the City.
(Code 1991, §§ 14-103, 14-107)
Sec 90-36 Fluids, Polluting Substances From Businesses
It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a motor vehicle service station or
other place of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow
water, grease, other fluid, or polluting substance to flow or drain into, upon,
over, or across any sidewalk, parking, street, alley, or other public way.
(Code 1991, § 14-109)
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18.
Sec 90-37 Drainage
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk, or alley by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water into
the storm sewers or drains or dam the same so as to back any water upon the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutter.
(Code 1991, § 14-111)
Sec 90-38 Encroachments In Rights-Of-Way And Easements
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct or
otherwise prevent access to any street, alley, or other city-owned property;
provided that, the city may prevent or provide access to streets, alleys, and
city-owned property from time to time in the public interest.
   B.   The City may permit certain streets, alleys, and City property which
are dedicated, but not required for traffic or other public access or use, to
be fenced or otherwise made inaccessible to the public, as in the case of land
being farmed or grazed as a part of a larger field or pasture. The City or any
of its officers or employees shall have the right of ingress, egress, and
easement for the purpose of installing or maintaining utilities, cleaning,
grading, moving, or any other activity which is in the public interest.
   C.   Persons, companies, corporations, or individuals who have fenced in or
are farming or grazing dedicated but unopened streets, alleys or City property,
as permitted in this section, shall:
      1.   Not construct any building, structure, earthworks, or ponds nor in
any other way disturb the general grade and slope of the land;
      2.   Maintain the property so that no nuisance is created;
      3.   Immediately relinquish any rights, presumed to be held concerning
the property upon notice by the City; and
      4.   Permit access to the property at any reasonable time when requested
to do so by a City officer or employee.
(Ord. No. 17-12, § 1, 7-3-2017)
Sec 90-39 Obstacles In Street Rights-Of-Way; Notice; Abatement
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, or operate any
building, sign, fence, post, gasoline pump, driveway canopy, tree, shrub, or
other thing or structure on any right-of-way of or upon any street in the City
of Purcell, and the constructing or maintaining of any such thing or structure
on any right-of-way of or upon any such street shall constitute a public
nuisance, which may be summarily abated by the city or its officers, agents,
and employees in the manner provided in this section.
   B.   If the owner or person in possession of any building, sign, fence,
post, gasoline pump, driveway canopy, tree, shrub, or other thing or structure
on any right-of- way of or upon any street fails to remove such structure or
thing as provided in subsection (A) of this section after receiving at least
ten (10) days' notice from the city manager, or his designee, to do so is
guilty of an offense against the city and subject to a tine in accordance with
Section
1-12, as amended. Every day the owner or occupant fails, refuses, or neglects
to mow and keep mowed such vegetation after the expiration of the ten (10)
days' notice shall be and is a separate offense.
   C.   This section is not intended to prevent the construction or maintenance
of any culvert or driveway as a means of ingress and egress to private
property. The City shall have power to regulate the construction and
maintenance of such culverts or driveways with due regard to the safety section
of the traveling public and also drainage and maintenance of the streets.
(Code 1991, § 4-114; Ord. No. 17-12, § 2, 7-3-2017)
ARTICLE 90-3 EXCAVATIONS
   
90-66   Penalty For Violation
   
90-67   Permit Required
   
90-68   Applications
   
90-69   Fees
   
90-70   Bond
   
90-71   Manner Of Excavating
   
90-72   Sidewalks
   
90-73   Restoring Surface
   
90-74   Supervision
   
90-75   Tunneling
State Law reference- Excavations under sidewalks and along streets, 11 O.S. §
36- 107; Oklahoma Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act, 63 O.S. § 1421
et seq.
Sec 90-66 Penalty For Violation
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this article
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as
provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 14-211)
Sec 90-67 Permit Required
It is unlawful for any person to tunnel under or to make any excavation in the
street, alley, or other public place in the City without having obtained a
permit as is required in this article or without complying with the provisions
of this article or in violation of or variance from the terms of any such
permit.
(Code 1991, §§ 14-201, 14-206(A))
Sec 90-68 Applications
Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and shall:
   A.   Describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel;
   B.   The size thereof;
   C.   The purpose therefor;
   D.   The person, firm, or corporation doing the actual excavating work;
   E.   The name of the person, firm, or corporation for whom or which the work
is being done; and
   F.   Contain an agreement that the applicant will comply with all ordinances
and laws relating to the work to be done.
(Code 1991, § 14-202)
Sec 90-69 Fees
The fee for such permits shall be as set by the City Council by motion or
resolution, payable to the City Clerk. The fee for permits not secured within
four (4) hours prior to work being performed by the City will be computed at
one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the set fee. In the event extra
services, materials, and/or equipment are required by the City, an additional
fee shall be assessed.
(Code 1991, § 14-203)
Sec 90-70 Bond
No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
filed with the City Clerk a bond in an amount to be determined by the City
Manager, conditioned to indemnify the City for any loss, liability, or damage
that may result or accrue from or because of the making, existence, or manner
of guarding or constructing any such tunnel or excavation. Any required bond
shall have as surety a corporation licensed to do business in the State as a
surety company.
(Code 1991, § 14-204)
Sec 90-71 Manner Of Excavating
   A.   Proper bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining
ground. The City will cut the street per area designated by the requesting/
responsible party.
   B.   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or conduits in the making
of such excavations or tunnels. Notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables, or conduits or to the City department or
officer charged with the care thereof which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables, or conduits shall be disturbed.
   C.   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof.
   D.   The City will remove street surface waste material. The responsible
party, in order to accomplish the desired work, shall remove dirt or gravel and
all other waste material.
(Code 1991, § 14-206)
Sec 90-72 Sidewalks
If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for any
users.
(Code 1991, § 14-207)
Sec 90-73 Restoring Surface
   A.   Any person making any excavation or tunnel in or under any public
street, alley, or other public place in the City shall cause the surface to be
restored to its original condition. Backfills shall be properly tamped down and
any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be left in the ground.
   B.   The requesting or responsible party shall backfill and compact work
area to within eight (8) inches of the street surface.
   C.   Backfill material and compaction shall be in compliance and to the City
Code and as approved by the City.
   D.   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface re-laid by the applicant in compliance with the
policies and ordinances of the City and under the supervision of the City.
   E.   The City will complete backfill and repair the street surface area.
(Code 1991, § 14-208)
Sec 90-74 Supervision
The City Manager or his designee shall from time to time inspect or cause to be
inspected all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street,
alley, or other public place in the City to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this section. Notice shall be given to him at least ten (10)
hours before the work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation commences.
(Code 1991, § 14-209)
Sec 90-75 Tunneling
Tunneling will be required when it is feasible to tunnel underneath any portion
of any street or sidewalk in the City which is paved with concrete or asphalt
paving. The street or sidewalk in the City which is paved with concrete or
asphalt paving may be excavated as otherwise provided in this article if
tunneling is not feasible after taking into consideration the location, costs,
and time involved, and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be
driven or excavated under any such pavement, provided that upon completion of
the work involved, the backfill shall be compacted with sand.
(Code 1991, § 14-210)
CHAPTER 94 SUBDIVISIONS
ARTICLE 94-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 94-2 PLAT PREPARATION AND REVIEW
ARTICLE 94-3 SUBDIVISION DESIGN
ARTICLE 94-4 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
ARTICLE 94-5 NEIGHBORHOOD PLANS PROGRAM
ARTICLE 94-6 WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS
ARTICLE 94-1 IN GENERAL
   
94-1   Authority
   
94-2   Purpose
   
94-3   Jurisdiction
   
94-4   Statement Of Policy
   
94-5   Interpretation
   
94-6   Definitions
   
94-7   Violation And Penalty
   
94-8   Application Of Regulations
   
94-9   Exceptions To Regulations
   
94-10   Responsibility For Administration
   
94-11   Amendment Of Regulations
   
94-12   Conflict With Public And Private Provisions
   
94-13   Official Recording
   
94-14   Vacation Of Plats
   
94-15   Agenda
   
94-16   Filing Fees
   
94-17   Variances
Sec 94-1 Authority
The following regulations governing the subdivision and development of land
within the jurisdictional area of the City Municipal and Regional Planning
Commissions have been prepared, adopted, and enacted by Ordinance No. 918, on
June 5, 1978, and became effective on July 15, 1978, in accordance with and
pursuant to the authority granted by 11 O.S. §§ 45-104, 46-103 and 46-104.
(Code 1991, § 12-401(B))
Sec 94-2 Purpose
These regulations are designed, intended, adopted, and should be administrated
for the following purposes:
   A.   Protect and provide for the health, safety, and general welfare of
present and future residents of the City;
   B.   Guide the future growth and development of the community in accordance
with the implementation of the comprehensive plan for the City;
   C.   Ensure the provision of adequate light, air, privacy, and fire and
flood protection for residents of the City;
   D.   Prevent overcrowding of the land and undue congestion of population;
   E.   Protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the community;
   F.   Promote neighborhood conservation and prevent the development of slums
and blight;
   G.   Encourage orderly and beneficial development of all parts of the
community;
   H.   Protect and conserve the value of land throughout the community, as
well as the value of buildings and improvements upon the land;
   I.   Minimize conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   J.   Guide public and private policy and action in order to provide adequate
and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, parks, schools, and other public
requirements and facilities;
   K.   Provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land and
buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the community, with
particular regard for the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, through proper location, width, design, and construction of
streets and other traffic ways;
   L.   Establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions, re- subdivisions, and lot splits in order to further the orderly
layout and use of land;
   M.   Establish adequate, accurate, and accessible public records and
monumenting of subdivided land;
   N.   Ensure the availability of public utilities and facilities as well as
their capacity to serve the proposed subdivision;
   O.   Equitably distribute the costs involved in land subdivision;
   P.   Prevent the pollution of air, streams, lakes, and other bodies of
water;
   Q.   Safeguard the area's water table;
   R.   Encourage the wise use and management of natural resources in order to
preserve the integrity, ecological stability, and the beauty of the community,
as well as the value of the land;
   S.   Provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout of
the land;
   T.   Ensure the adequacy of drainage facilities; and
   U.   Minimize flood losses resulting from periodic inundation through:
      1.   Restriction or prohibition of subdivision of land for uses which are
dangerous to health, safety, or property in times of flood or which, with
reasonably anticipated improvements, will cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;
      2.   Requirements that each subdivision lot in an area vulnerable to
flooding be provided with a safe building site with adequate access and that
public utilities and facilities which serve such uses be installed with
protection against flood damage at the time of installation; and
      3.   Protection of individuals from purchase of lands unsuitable for
intended purposes because of flood hazards through the prohibition of
unprotected flood hazard lands subdivision, requirements of delineated flood
hazard areas on the final plat, and suitable uses provided for areas unsuitable
for residential development.
(Code 1991, § 12-402)
Sec 94-3 Jurisdiction
These regulations shall govern the subdivision of land within the
jurisdictional area of the Municipal and Regional Planning Commission of the
City.
(Code 1991, § 12-403)
Sec 94-4 Statement Of Policy
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as
subject to the control of the City pursuant to the comprehensive plan of the
City for the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical development of the
City.
   B.   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood, or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until available public
facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for
drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks,
recreation facilities, transportation facilities, and improvements.
   C.   Existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals shown in the City's comprehensive plan and
the capital improvements program, and it is intended that these regulations
shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the provisions and standards
contained in the City's building and housing codes, zoning regulations, code of
ordinances, comprehensive plan and capital improvements program.
(Code 1991, § 12-404)
Sec 94-5 Interpretation
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these regulations
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
(Code 1991, § 12-414)
Sec 94-6 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Air rights means the rights to a space above a property for
development, usually for a dissimilar use.
   B.   Air space means the space above the land which might be subject to
division and sale either with, or separate from, the surface.
   C.   Alley means a minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, from which a
secondary means of access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street is obtained and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   D.   Bikeway means a right-of-way, primarily for the use of bicycles, which
may be any of three (3) basic design types:
      1.   Class I is a completely separated right-of-way designated for the
exclusive use of bicycles;
      2.   Class II is a restricted right-of-way designated for the exclusive
or semi- exclusive use of bicycles with through-travel by motor vehicles not
allowed; or
      3.   Class III is a shared right-of-way designated as such by signs
placed on posts or on the pavement.
   E.   Block means a parcel of land intended to be used for development
purposes, which is entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad
rights-of-way, public walks, parks, rural lands, drainage channels, or boundary
lines of municipalities.
   F.   Bond means any form of security, including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit, in an amount and form
satisfactory to the City Council. All bonds shall be approved by the City
Council whenever a bond is required by these regulations.
   G.   Building and structure mean any structure built for the support,
shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals, chattel, or movable property of any
kind, including any part of a building or structure.
   H.   Building code means a collection of regulations, adopted by the City
Council, setting forth standards for the construction of buildings and other
structures for the purpose of protecting the health, safety, and welfare of the
public.
   I.   Building line and setback line mean a line or lines within a lot
designating the area outside of which buildings may not be erected.
   J.   Building permit means a permit required before construction can be
initiated. Building permit provisions are contained in the Code of Ordinances
for the City.
   K.   Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent
with definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
   L.   Cluster development means a development pattern in which the uses are
built close together rather than spread evenly throughout a parcel as in
conventional lot-by-lot development. Cluster development is used to preserve
open space, create workable land use mixtures, and save money by building fewer
streets and shorter utility lines.
   M.   Comprehensive plan and master plan mean the officially adopted plan or
plans for the City which provide long-range development policies for the area
subject to urbanization in the foreseeable future and which include, among
other things, the land use plan, the circulation plan, and the community
utilities plan.
   N.   Construction plans mean maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision
plat showing the specific location and design of required subdivision
improvements.
   O.   Dedication means the transfer of property from private to public
ownership under adopted subdivision regulations as a condition of subdivision
plat approval.
   P.   Dedication, fee in lieu of, means the payments of cash, authorized and
provided for in adopted subdivision regulations, when requirements for
mandatory dedication of land cannot be met because of site conditions or other
reasons.
   Q.   Density means the average number of families, persons, or housing units
per acre of land.
   R.   Drainage way means any depression below the surrounding land, serving
to give direction to a regular or periodic current of water.
   S.   Easement means a grant by the property owner to the public, a
corporation or persons of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   T.   Erosion means the general process whereby soils are removed or moved by
flowing surface or subsurface water.
   U.   Extra-territorial jurisdiction means the jurisdiction of the City
regional Planning Commission for subdivision review only within an area outside
of the corporate limits of the City whose any one (1) boundary at any point
shall be within a distance of three (3) miles from the corporate limits of the
City.
   V.   Flood and flooding mean general and temporary conditions of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of lakes,
streams, rivers or any other inland waters.
   W.   Flood hazard area means the maximum area of the floodplain that, on the
average, is likely to be flooded once every one hundred (100) years; i.e., that
has a one percent (1%) change of being flooded in any given year.
   X.   Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map or plat of the
community issued or approved by the Federal Insurance Administration or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency on which the boundaries of the floodplain
area having special hazards have been drawn.
   Y.   Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means the official map or plat of the
City issued or approved by the Federal Insurance Administration or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on which special flood hazard zones, for insurance
purposes, have been drawn.
   Z.   Floodplain means the land adjacent to a body of water which has been or
may be covered by flooding, including, but not limited to, the one hundred
(100) year flood.
   AA.   Floodplain management program means the full range of codes,
ordinances, and other regulations, projects, and programs relating to the use
of land and construction within the limits of the floodplain. The term
"floodplain management program" encompasses the City's zoning regulations,
subdivision regulations, and sanitary and building codes.
   AB.   Floodproofing means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to properties and structures subject to
flooding which reduces or eliminates flood damage to lands, water, and sanitary
facilities or the contents of buildings in a flood hazard area.
   AC.   Floodway means the channel of a stream, watercourse, or body of water
and those portions of floodplains which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the floodwater or flood flow of any river or stream.
   AD.   Floodway encroachment lines means the lines marking the limits of
floodways on official federal, State, and local floodplain maps.
   AE.   Floodway fringe zoning district means an overlay zoning district to
provide special regulations for reduction of flood losses in those areas of the
floodplain outside of the floodway which are subject to periodic flooding and
therefore require special consideration before development is permitted to
occur. Requirements of this overlay district are in addition to the
requirements contained in the basic, underlying zoning district.
   AF.   Frontage means that side of a lot abutting on a street or way and
ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot, but not the ordinary side of a
corner lot.
   AG.   Grade means the slope of a road, street, or other public way specified
in percentage terms.
   AH.   Improvements means the street pavements, with curbs and sidewalks,
pedestrian ways, water mains, sanitary and storm sewers, permanent street
monuments, trees, and other appropriate items for which the City may ultimately
assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation or which may affect an
improvement for which municipal responsibility is established. All such
improvements shall be properly bonded in accordance with the provisions of
these regulations.
   AI.   Intensity means the degree to which land is used. The term "intensity"
is often used synonymously with the term "density."
   AJ.   Lot means a parcel of land intended as a unit for the transfer of
ownership or for development of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
regulation requirements for use, coverage, and area and to provide such yards
and other open spaces as are required. Such lot shall have frontage on a public
street and may consist of:
      1.   A single lot of record;
      2.   A portion of a lot of record;
      3.   A combination of complete lots of record, and portions of lots of
record; or
      4.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in no
case of division or combination shall any lot or parcel be created which does
not meet the requirements of these regulations or the City's adopted zoning
regulations.
   AK.   Lot area means the total horizontal area included within lot lines.
   AL.   Lot, corner, means a lot located at the intersection of and abutting
on two (2) or more streets.
   AM.   Lot depth means the average distance from the street line of the lot
to its rear line measured in the general direction of the side lines of the
lot.
   AN.   Lot, double frontage, means a lot which runs through a block from
street to street and has nonintersecting frontage on two (2) or more streets.
   AO.   Lot frontage means that dimension of a lot, or portion of a lot,
abutting on a street, except the side dimension of a corner lot.
   AP.   Lot, interior, means a lot other than a corner lot.
   AQ.   Lot line adjustment means a relocation of the lot lines of two (2) or
more lots included in a plat which is filed of record, for the purpose of
making necessary adjustments to building sites.
   AR.   Lot lines means the lines bounding a "lot," as that term is defined in
this section.
   AS.   Lot, mobile home, means a parcel or tract of land for the placement of
a single mobile home and for the exclusive use of its occupants.
   AT.   Lot of record means a separate and distinct parcel of land designated
on a legally recorded subdivision plat or a legally recorded deed filed in the
records of the County courthouse.
   AU.   Lot, reverse frontage, means a double frontage lot which is designed
to be developed with the rear yard abutting a major street and with the primary
means of access provided on a minor street.
   AV.   Lot split means any division of land by metes and bounds description
into two (2) or more parcels for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership and which constitutes a "subdivision," as that term is
defined in this section.
   AW.   Lot, townhouse, means a lot shown on a townhouse plat and intended as
the site of a single, attached dwelling unit.
   AX.   Metes and bounds mean a system of describing and identifying land by
measures (metes) and direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of
reference.
   AY.   Mobile home means any single-family dwelling designed for
transportation on streets and highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other
trailers, both highway and rail, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or permanent
foundations, connection to utilities, and similar operations.
   AZ.   Mobile home park means land or property which is used, or intended to
be used, or rented for occupancy by two (2) or more mobile homes, trailers, or
movable sleeping quarters of any kind.
   BA.   Mobile home subdivision. See the definition of "Subdivision."
   BB.   Monument and marker mean a subdivision improvement designed to provide
permanent survey reference points within a subdivision which may be of one (1)
of three (3) types:
      1.   Type "A": A noncorrosive metal plate set in Portland cement or
asphaltic concrete;
      2.   Type "B": Iron bar or pipe set in concrete; or
      3.   Type "C": Iron bar set in unexcavated soil.
   BC.   One hundred (100) year flood means a flood which has a one percent
(1%) chance of occurring each year, based upon the criteria established by the
Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
   BD.   Parcel means a lot or contiguous group of lots in single ownership or
under single control and usually considered as a unit for purposes of
development.
   BE.   Pedestrian way means a right-of-way dedicated to public use which cuts
across a block or area to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and
properties.
   BF.   Planned unit development includes cluster housing, planned residential
and nonresidential development, community unit plan, and other zoning
requirements which are designed to accomplish the objectives of a comprehensive
plan and zoning ordinance through a land development project review process
based on the application of site planning criteria to achieve integration of
the proposed land development project with the characteristics of the project
area. This permits the planning of a project and the calculation of densities
over the entire development, rather than on an individual lot-by-lot basis.
   BG.   Planning commission means the Municipal Planning Commission or the
Regional Planning Commission of the City.
   BH.   Plat, final, means a map of a land subdivision and any required
accompanying material prepared in a form suitable for filing of record with
necessary affidavits, dedications, and acceptances, and with complete bearings
and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks, streets and alleys,
public areas, and other dimensions of land.
   BI.   Plat, preliminary, means a map of a proposed land subdivision showing
the character and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate
the suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
   BJ.   Plat, sketch, means a sketch of a proposed development submitted to
the Planning Commission prior to the preliminary plat to enable the subdivider
to illustrate the subdivision's general nature and allow the City and the
subdivider to work out basic problems with the proposal.
   BK.   Private covenants and restrictive covenants mean any specification
limiting the transfer, rental, or lease of any dwelling because of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap, or familial status.
   BL.   Re-subdivision means a change in an approved or recorded subdivision
plat if such change affects any street layout, lot line, or area reserved
thereon for public use, or if it affects any map or plan legally recorded prior
to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   BM.   Right-of-way means a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied
by a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or another
special use. The usage of the term "right-of-way" for land platting purposes
shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a final
plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such
right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or
parcels.
      Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary
sewers, storm drains, shade trees, or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which such right-of-way is established.
   BN.   Roadway means that portion of any street so designated for vehicular
traffic; where curbs are in place, that portion of the street between the
curbs.
   BO.   Sedimentation means processes that operate at or near the surface of
the ground to deposit soils, debris, and other materials either on other ground
surfaces or in water channels.
   BP.   Solar collector means any device or combination of devices or elements
which rely upon sunshine as an energy source and which are capable of
collecting not less than twenty-five thousand (25,000) BTUs on a clear winter
solstice day. The term "solar connector" also includes any substance or device
which collects solar energy for use in:
      1.   The heating or cooling of a structure or building;
      2.   The heating or pumping of water;
      3.   Industrial, commercial, or agricultural processes; or
      4.   The generation of electricity.
   A solar collector may be used for purposes in addition to the collection of
solar energy. These uses include, but are not limited to, serving as a
structural member, or part, of a roof of a building or structure and serving as
a window or wall.
   BQ.   Solar right means a right to an unobstructed line-of-sight path from a
solar collector to the sun which permits radiation from the sun to impinge
directly on the solar collector.
   BR.   Start of construction means the first placement of permanent
construction on a site, such as the pouring of footings or any work beyond the
stage of excavation. For a structure without a basement or poured footings, the
start of construction includes:
      1.   The first permanent framing or assembly of the structure or any part
thereof on its pilings or foundation; or
      2.   The affixing of any prefabricated structure or mobile home to its
permanent site. Permanent construction does not include:
         a.   Land preparation;
         b.   Land clearing, grading, or filling;
         c.   Excavation for basement footings, piers, or foundations;
         d.   Erection of temporary forms;
         e.   The installation of piling under proposed subsurface footings;
         f.   Installation of sewer, gas, and water pipes or electric or other
service lines from the street; or
         g.   Existence on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages
or sheds, not occupied as dwelling units or not a part of the main structure.
   BS.   Street means any public or private right-of-way which affords the
primary means of access to abutting property.
   BT.   Street classification means that, for the purpose of providing for the
development of the streets, highways, roads, and rights-of-way in the City, and
for their future improvement, reconstruction, realignment, and necessary
widening, including provision for curbs and sidewalks, each existing, street,
highway, road, and right- of-way has been designated, arranged, or organized
according to category within the comprehensive plan for the City. The
classification of each street, highway, road, and right-of-way is based upon
its location in the respective zoning districts of the City, its present and
estimated future traffic volume, and its relative importance and function as
specified in the City's comprehensive plan. The required street and sign
improvements shall be measured as set forth for each classification in the
City's adopted subdivision regulations or the City's comprehensive plan.
   BU.   Street, commercial or industrial, means a street which abuts property
zoned for commercial or industrial use and which is designed to provide access
to those parcels so designated.
   BV.   Street, half, means any street platted twenty-five (25) feet or more
in width, where, at the time of the approval of the plat, it is the intent of
the City Council that the street dedication shall constitute only a part of the
total street easement width.
   BW.   Street, major, means an arterial street which is so designated on the
major street plan, comprehensive or community plan, and is designed to carry
inter-city traffic and to relate the various neighborhoods or residential areas
within the City. Major streets shall be classified as follows:
      1.   Limited access highway. A freeway or expressway providing a traffic
way for through traffic in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting
property or lands and other persons have no legal right to access to or from
the same, except at such points and in such manner as may be determined by the
State highway department of transportation.
      2.   Primary arterial or thoroughfare. A roadway intended to move through
traffic to and from major traffic generators or as a route for traffic between
communities or employment centers.
      3.   Secondary arterial or thoroughfare. A road intended to collect and
distribute traffic in a manner similar to primary arterials, except that these
roads service minor traffic-generating areas or a road which may be designated
to carry traffic from collector streets to the system of primary arterials.
   BX.   Street, minor, means any street other than one (1) designated as a
major street in the major street plan or the community or comprehensive plan,
but not including alleys. Minor streets shall be classified as follows:
      1.   Collector street. A street collecting traffic from other minor
streets; serves as the most direct route to a major street or community
facility and should be designed so that no residential properties front onto
it.
      2.   Court. A secondary designation following a street name used only
when street alignment is such that a short street is created that does not
warrant a new street name.
      3.   Cul-de-sac. A street having one (1) end open to vehicular traffic
and one (1) closed end, terminated by a turnaround.
      4.   Dead-end street. A street, similar to a cul-de-sac, but providing no
turnaround at its closed end.
      5.   Frontage or service street. A street auxiliary to and located on the
side of a major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent areas
and for control of access.
      6.   Local street. A street primarily providing access to and from
abutting property and serving only occasional through traffic.
      7.   Place. A secondary designation following a street name used only
when street alignment is such that a short street is created that does not
warrant a new street name.
   BY.   Street, perimeter means any existing street to which the parcel of
land to be subdivided abuts on only one (1) side.
   BZ.   Subdivider and developer mean any person, firm, partnership,
corporation, or other entity acting as a unit subdividing, proposing to
subdivide, or re-subdividing land as defined in this section, including all
changes in street or lot lines.
   CA.   Subdivision means the division or re-division of land (vacant or
improved) or airspace into two (2) or more lots, tracts, parcels, sites, areas,
units, or plots, anyone of which, when divided, has an area of less than ten
(10) acres, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for development or the
dedication, vacation, or realignment of any public or private right-of-way
easement. Subdivision shall be classified as follows:
      1.   Major. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including, but not limited to, subdivisions of four (4) or more lots or any
size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of municipal facilities
or the creation of any public improvements.
      2.   Minor. Any subdivision containing not more than three (3) lots
fronting on an existing street nor involving any new street or road or the
extension of municipal utilities or facilities or the creation of any public
improvements and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or
adjoining property and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the
comprehensive plan, zoning regulations, or these regulations. A "lot split" or
"lot line adjustment" shall be considered a minor subdivision.
      3.   Mobile home. A unified development of mobile home lots which has
been subdivided for the purpose of individual ownership and which is governed
by the provisions of these regulations, the City's adopted zoning regulations,
and the Code of Ordinances for the City.
      4.   Nonresidential. A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial. Such subdivision shall comply
with the applicable provisions of these regulations.
   CB.   Subdivision regulations and this chapter mean the officially adopted
subdivision regulations for the City, designed to provide standards for the
subdivision of land within the jurisdictional area of the Planning Commission
of the City.
   CC.   Substantial improvement means any repair, reconstruction, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the actual cash value of the structure either before the improvement
is started or, if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. Substantial improvement is started when the first
alteration of any structural part of the building commences.
   CD.   Temporary improvement means improvements built and maintained by a
subdivider during construction of the subdivision prior to the release of the
performance bond or its equivalent.
   CE.   Townhouse means one (1) of a series of two (2) or more attached
dwelling units separated from one another by continuous, vertical walls without
openings from basement floor to the roof deck and tight against the same or
through the roof and which are intended to have ownership transferred in
conjunction with a platted lot.
   CF.   Tree crown means the outside diameter of a tree's branches.
   CG.   Urban service area means an area, identified through official public
policy, within which urban development will be encouraged during a specified
time period.
   CH.   Used or occupied as applied to any land or building shall be construed
to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
   CI.   Water surface elevation means the heights, in relation to mean sea
level, expected to be reached by floods of various magnitudes and frequencies
at pertinent points in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   CJ.   Way means any street, avenue, highway, boulevard, road, or alley
reserved or dedicated for public or private use, chiefly by vehicular or
pedestrian traffic.
   CK.   Zero lot line means a development approach in which a building is
sited on one (1) or more lot lines with no yard (conceivably, three (3) of the
four (4) sides of the building could be on the lot lines) in order to allow
more flexibility in site design and to increase the amount of usable open space
on the lot.
   CL.   Zoning regulations and
Chapter 122 mean the officially adopted zoning regulations for the City.
(Code 1991, § 12-416)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 43110, 25 O.S. § 1451, 82
O.S. § 1603.
Sec 94-7 Violation And Penalty
   A.   No building permit shall be issued for any new structure or change,
improvement or alteration of any existing structure on any tract of land in a
subdivision filed of record after July 15, 1978, which does not comply with all
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Any person, firm, or corporation which violates or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of these regulations shall be punished as provided
in Section
1-12 of this Code for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1991, § 12-417)
Sec 94-8 Application Of Regulations
These regulations shall apply to the following forms of land subdivision and
development:
   A.   The division of land or air space into two (2) or more tracts, lots,
sites, or parcels, any part of which, when subdivided, shall contain ten (10)
acres or less in area;
   B.   The re-division of land, previously divided or platted, into tracts,
lots, sites, or parcels of ten (10) acres or less in area;
   C.   The dedication, vacation, or reservation of any public or private
easement through any tract of land, regardless of the area involved, including
those for use by public and private utility companies;
   D.   The dedication or vacation of any street or alley through any tract of
land, regardless of the area involved;
   E.   Planned unit development or planned development, either residential or
commercial, as defined in these subdivision regulations and the City's adopted
zoning regulations;
   F.   Any commercial shopping center or industrial park development which
fits the other jurisdictional provisions of these subdivision regulations;
   G.   Any tract, lot, site, or parcel of land, regardless of size, which is
to be developed and on which exists, or will exist because of such contemplated
development, any topographic feature or improvement requiring the dedication or
reservation of any easement, public or private, under the provisions of these
subdivision regulations;
   H.   Plats which are partially or entirely undeveloped, if the plats were
either:
      1.   Recorded with the County Clerk's office without prior Planning
Commission approval;
      2.   If the plats were approved by the Planning Commission more than
three (3) years prior to granting a building permit or construction of
improvements on the partially or entirely undeveloped land;
   I.   Any plat or part of a plat which is to be vacated by the owner of the
premises or tract of land; and
   J.   Lot splits and lot line adjustments according to the provisions
contained in Section
94-9.
(Code 1991, § 12-406)
Sec 94-9 Exceptions To Regulations
   A.   Whenever there is a tract or previously subdivided parcel of land under
single ownership which is to be re-subdivided into three (3) or fewer lots, the
proposed subdivision may be excepted from the procedural requirements of these
regulations; i.e., preliminary and final plats are not required; however, this
shall not constitute an exception from the design and improvement requirements
contained in this section. These exceptions, or lot splits, shall be permitted
under the following provisions:
      1.   An accurate survey of the proposed tract and the re-subdivision
thereof prepared by a land surveyor registered in the State shall be submitted
to the Planning Commission.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall review the proposed lot split to
ensure compliance with all design and improvement requirements of these
regulations.
      3.   Upon approval, the Planning Commission Chairman shall certify the
plat by signing the document.
      4.   Upon denial, the Planning Commission Chairman shall submit the
reasons for denial, in writing, to the applicant.
      5.   Whenever a deviation is required from improvement standards or a
street or other element is to be dedicated, the City Council shall have final
approval and acceptance rights. For all other lot splits, the action of the
Planning Commission shall be final.
      6.   A tract of land which has been subject to more than seven (7) lot
splits over any period of time shall not be allowed further use of the lot
split exception. The tract shall be subject to the procedures contained in this
section for the platting of land.
   B.   For the purpose of adjusting the size of building sites, lot line
adjustments to lines of platted lots shall be excepted from the procedural
requirements of these regulations; however, it is not intended that extensive
replatting be accomplished under this exception. The lot line adjustments shall
be subject to the following provisions:
      1.   No additional lot shall be created by any lot line adjustment;
      2.   No lot line adjustment shall be allowed unless all required
improvements are either completed and accepted by the City or their
construction is secured under the applicable provisions of these regulations;
      3.   All proposed parcels or building sites involved in a lot line
adjustment shall abut on either an existing alley or adequate utility easement
and on a publicly dedicated street;
      4.   Unusable parcels shall not be created as a result of any lot line
adjustment; and
      5.   Lot line adjustment requests shall be reviewed and approved or
denied by the Planning Commission.
(Code 1991, § 12-407)
Sec 94-10 Responsibility For Administration
The primary responsibility for the administration of these regulations shall be
that of the Planning Commission. It is the intent of the Planning Commission
that the public interest be protected by a thorough review of all proposed
plats without undue delay to developers.
(Code 1991, § 12-409)
Sec 94-11 Amendment Of Regulations
The City Council may, from time to time, adopt amendments to these regulations
to the end that the public is better informed and that the approval and review
of plats is improved or expedited. These amendments shall be adopted by the
City Council by ordinance, following at least one (1) public hearing by the
Planning Commission, due notice of which shall be given as required by
municipal ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 12-410)
Sec 94-12 Conflict With Public And Private Provisions
   A.   Public provisions. These regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or
other provision of law. Where any provisions of these regulations imposes a
restriction different from those imposed by any other provision of these
regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other
provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher
standards shall control.
   B.   Private provisions. These regulations are not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant, or any other private agreement or restriction; provided
that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
standards or regulations higher than such easement, covenant, or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
Where the provisions of the easement, covenant, or private agreement or
restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive or of higher
standards than the requirements of these regulations, or the determination of
the Planning Commission in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these
regulations, and such private provisions are not inconsistent with these
regulations or determination thereunder, then such private provisions shall be
operative and supplemental to these regulations and determinations made
thereunder.
(Code 1991, § 12-415)
Sec 94-13 Official Recording
   A.   No land shall be subdivided or a plat filed within the jurisdictional
area of the Municipal and Regional Planning Commission of the City until:
      1.   The subdivider or his agent shall obtain the approval of the
Planning Commission and the City Council, if the plat is within the City's
corporate limits, for the sketch plan, the preliminary plat, and the final plat
of the proposed subdivision; and
      2.   The approved plat is filed with the County Clerk.
   B.   No plat or other land subdivision instrument shall be filed in the
office of the County Clerk until it has received approval, as required in this
section.
   C.   All plats of record (i.e., final plats) shall be filed within two (2)
years of the date official approval by the City and Regional Planning
Commission of the City, and no lots shall be recorded as transferred by the
County Clerk regarding any final plat until such plat is filed.
   D.   Failure to record the plat within two (2) years of the date of approval
shall void all approvals thereto.
(Code 1991, § 12-405)
Sec 94-14 Vacation Of Plats
   A.   Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises at any time before the sale of any lot therein by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated, following court action, as required by State law.
   B.   Such an instrument shall be approved by the Planning Commission in like
manner as plats of subdivisions. The City Council may reject any such
instrument which abridges or destroys any public rights in any of its public
uses, improvements, streets, or alleys.
   C.   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged, or approved and
recorded or filed in like manner as plats of subdivisions and being duly
recorded or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the
recording of the plat so vacated and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys, public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described in
such plat.
   D.   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
provided in this section by all of the owners of lots in such plat joining in
the execution of such writing, subsequent to court action as required by
applicable State law.
(Code 1991, § 12-408)
Sec 94-15 Agenda
   A.   Each plat submitted for preliminary or final review shall be placed on
the agenda of the Planning Commission only after fulfilling appropriate
requirements of these regulations.
   B.   Any plat not meeting all of the requirements may be submitted if the
subdivider presents with the plat a written request for specific exceptions and
enumerates in detail the reasons therefore.
(Code 1991, § 12-411)
Sec 94-16 Filing Fees
   A.   In order to partially defray the administrative costs of plat review, a
filing fee shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time of submission of the
preliminary plat in the amounts per lot for the first fifty (50) lots and for
each additional lot thereafter as set by the City Council.
   B.   Where only a portion of an approved preliminary plat is submitted for
final approval, a final plat of the remaining area may be submitted at any time
within five (5) years of the preliminary approval without payment of an
additional filing fee by the subdivider if the final plat for the additional
area conforms substantially with the approved preliminary plat.
(Code 1991, § 12-412)
Sec 94-17 Variances
   A.   Where the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these subdivision regulations
so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured;
provided that such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent
and purpose of these regulations; and further provided that the Planning
Commission shall not approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon
the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      1.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property in the area where the
variance is located;
      2.   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations are carried out; and
      4.   The variance will not in any manner conflict with or vary from the
provisions of the adopted zoning regulations or comprehensive plan.
   B.   In approving variances, the Planning Commission may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of these regulations.
(Code 1991, § 12-413)
ARTICLE 94-2 PLAT PREPARATION AND REVIEW
DIVISION 94-2-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 94-2-2 SKETCH PLATS
DIVISION 94-2-3 PRELIMINARY PLATS
DIVISION 94-2-4 FINAL PLATS
DIVISION 94-2-1 GENERALLY
   
94-41   Plat Approval
   
94-42   Acceptance Of Dedications And Easements
   
94-43   Subdivision Process
   
94-44   Special Procedures
   
94-45   Solar Orientation
Sec 94-41 Plat Approval
For all cases of subdivision within the scope of these regulations, a plat
shall be drawn and submitted to the Planning Commission and, if the subdivision
is within the City limits, the City Council for their approval or disapproval.
(Code 1991, § 12-420)
Sec 94-42 Acceptance Of Dedications And Easements
All easements and areas dedicated to public use within the corporate limits of
the City shall be submitted to the City Council for acceptance. Outside of the
corporate boundaries of the City, no easements or publicly dedicated areas
shall be effectively dedicated to the County until such easements or areas, as
shown on the plat, have been submitted to, and reviewed and formally accepted
by, the board of commissioners of the County.
(Code 1991, § 12-421)
Sec 94-43 Subdivision Process
The subdivision process prescribed in these regulations shall consist of three
(3) phases:
   A.   Sketch plat;
   B.   Preliminary plat and improvement plans; and
   C.   Final plat.
(Code 1991, § 12-422)
Sec 94-44 Special Procedures
Procedures for the following types of subdivisions shall be as provided in
Article 1 of this chapter:
   A.   Lot splits;
   B.   Lot line adjustments;
   C.   Planned unit development;
   D.   Mobile home subdivision;
   E.   Re-subdivision;
   F.   Undeveloped plats; and
   G.   Vacation of plats.
(Code 1991, § 12-423)
Sec 94-45 Solar Orientation
The owner or subdivider shall provide a written statement explaining how the
proposed subdivision design will promote the use of solar heating and cooling
and assist in the achievement of energy-efficient development. Possible
elements for consideration include street layout and width, lot size and shape,
building site orientation, existing or proposed zoning regulation restrictions
on building height and setbacks, existing and proposed vegetation and
landscaping, and private restrictions related to building lines.
(Code 1991, § 12-436)
DIVISION 94-2-2 SKETCH PLATS
   
94-71   Purpose
   
94-72   Application
   
94-73   Planning Commission Review
   
94-74   Notice Of Dedications
   
94-75   Specifications
Sec 94-71 Purpose
The purpose of the sketch plat requirement is to provide for the identification
and arbitration of the interests of the various parties involved in the
subdivision of land.
(Code 1991, § 12-424)
Sec 94-72 Application
Prior to subdividing land, the owner or his representative shall request in
writing formal Planning Commission consideration of a sketch plat of the
proposed subdivision.
(Code 1991, § 12-425)
Sec 94-73 Planning Commission Review
Planning Commission review of the sketch plat shall be in accordance with the
following provisions:
   A.   Upon receipt of a written request for sketch plat review, the Chairman
of the Planning Commission or the appropriate City staff member shall set a
hearing date for Planning Commission review of the sketch plat. The owner of
the land shall be notified of the hearing.
   B.   The Planning Commission shall review the sketch plat considering the
requirements of these regulations, the best use of land in the area according
to the comprehensive plan, the design of traffic ways in the area and their
relation to the topography, utilities, drainage, lot size, and arrangement, and
other municipal ordinances, resolutions, or policies. The owner or subdivider
shall provide the Planning Commission with as many copies of the sketch plat as
will be necessary to allow adequate review.
   C.   The Planning Commission may request the comments of any individual or
agency, public or private, with respect to the sketch plat.
   D.   Following their review, the Planning Commission shall discuss with the
owner or subdivider any questions, changes, or conditions which it will require
as a prerequisite to ultimate approval of the plat. This shall not abridge the
right of the Planning Commission to require additional changes in the
subsequent preliminary and final plats, as further study may dictate.
   E.   Approval by the Planning Commission of the sketch plat shall constitute
authorization to prepare and submit a preliminary plat and improvement plans.
   F.   Approval or disapproval of the sketch plat shall be made within forty-
five (45) days of the date of receipt of the written notification, unless an
extension is requested by the owner or subdivider and approved by the Planning
Commission. Failure to meet this deadline or extension shall mean that the
sketch plat application must be resubmitted by the owner or subdivider.
(Code 1991, § 12-426)
Sec 94-74 Notice Of Dedications
In all instances where the sketch plat indicates the dedication or reservation
of public spaces, drainage ways, or other easements, the owner or subdivider
shall submit one (1) copy of the sketch plat to either the City Council or the
County Board of Commissioners, for their review of the proposed dedication or
reservation.
(Code 1991, § 12-427)
Sec 94-75 Specifications
The sketch plat submitted to the Planning Commission shall be drawn at an
approximate scale of one hundred (100) feet to an inch and shall include the
following:
   A.   Name of the proposed subdivision;
   B.   Full legal description of the proposed subdivision;
   C.   Scale, north arrow, and date;
   D.   Name, address, and telephone number of the legal owner or agent of the
owner and citation of the last instrument conveying title to the owner;
   E.   Name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons
responsible for the subdivision design;
   F.   Overall dimensions of the proposed subdivision;
   G.   The proposed street or alley layout;
   H.   Approximate lot dimensions;
   I.   Topography (contour interval no greater than five (5) feet);
   J.   The location of all existing and proposed easements which may affect or
be within the proposed subdivision;
   K.   The approximate location of adjoining streets, drainage ways, and
subdivisions;
   L.   The location of all proposed open space areas, drainage ways, and
drainage easements; and
   M.   The proposed street naming system.
(Code 1991, § 12-428)
DIVISION 94-2-3 PRELIMINARY PLATS
   
94-101   Intent
   
94-102   Application
   
94-103   Planning Commission Review
   
94-104   City Council Review
   
94-105   Approval Period
   
94-106   Sectionalizing Subdivision Plats
   
94-107   Conditional Approval Provisions
   
94-108   Plat Specifications
   
94-109   Improvement Plans; Generally
   
94-110   Same; Specifications
   
94-111   Preparation Of Plans
   
94-112   Erosion And Sediment Control Plans
Cross reference- Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision
saved from repeal, §
1-7(N); environment, Ch.
34; floods, Ch.
42; manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62; subdivisions for mobile home, manufactured home, and travel trailer parks,
§ 62-45; natural resources, Ch.
66; planning, Ch.
82; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; utilities, Ch.
110; vegetation, Ch.
114; zoning, Ch.
122.
State Law reference- Platting, 11 O.S. § 41-101 et seq.; vacating plats and
public ways, 11 O.S. § 42-101 et seq.
Sec 94-101 Intent
The preliminary plat is intended to provide an interim step in the subdivision
process in which the developer presents detailed plats and improvement plans
for review and approval by the Planning Commission and the City Council, if the
subdivision is within the City limits.
(Code 1991, § 12-429)
Sec 94-102 Application
Based upon the approval of the sketch plat, the owner or his representative may
file an application for approval of a preliminary plat. The application shall:
   A.   Be made on forms available from the office of the City Clerk;
   B.   Be accompanied by at least four (4) copies of the preliminary plat and
at least two (2) copies of the required construction plans, as described in
this article; and
   C.   Be delivered to the chairman or his designated representative on the
City staff not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the meeting date at which
the plat is to be reviewed.
(Code 1991, § 12-430)
Sec 94-103 Planning Commission Review
   A.   The Chairman of the Planning Commission or his designated
representative on the City staff shall be responsible for setting a date for
Planning Commission review of the preliminary plat and notifying the owner of
the subdivision or his agent in writing of the date.
   B.   He shall also be responsible for obtaining the comments of the City
Manager, Utilities Superintendent, County Health Department, City Fire Chief,
and the School Superintendent on the proposed subdivision. The Planning
Commission's review of the preliminary plat shall be in accordance with the
following provisions:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall review the applicant's preliminary
plat and shall approve, approve conditionally, or disapprove the plat within
sixty (60) days of the date of its receipt by the Chairman of the Planning
Commission to the applicant. The subdivider shall be notified in writing of
this action, which notification shall specifically state any conditions of
approval or those provisions of the comprehensive plan or other regulations
with which the disapproved plat was not in conformance. One (1) copy of the
preliminary plat shall be returned to the subdivider with the notification. On
conditionally approving a plat, the Planning Commission may require the
submission of a revised preliminary plat.
      2.   If the preliminary plat has not been acted upon by the Planning
Commission within the sixty (60) day period and an agreement to extend the time
has not been obtained from the applicant, the plat shall be deemed to have been
approved by the Planning Commission.
      3.   If the plat conforms to all of the standards referred to in this
section or after all agreed-to revisions are included therein, two (2) copies
of the preliminary plat shall be forwarded to the City Clerk, along with a
written recommendation from the Planning Commission, for scheduling of review
by the City Council.
(Code 1991, § 12-431)
Sec 94-104 City Council Review
The City Clerk shall be responsible for placing the subdivision on the agenda
of the City Council and providing written notice of the date to the Chairman of
the Planning Commission and the owner or his agent of the subdivision. The City
Council's review of the subdivision shall be in accordance with the following
provisions:
   A.   The City Council shall approve, approve conditionally, or disapprove
the preliminary plat within sixty (60) days of its receipt by the City Clerk
for placing on the City Council agenda. The subdivider shall be notified in
writing of this action, which notification shall specifically state any
conditions of approval or those provisions of the comprehensive plan or other
regulations with which the disapproved plat was not in conformance. One (1)
copy of the preliminary plat shall be returned to the subdivider with the
notification. On conditionally approving a plat, the City Council may require
the submission of a revised preliminary plat.
   B.   If the preliminary plat has not been acted upon by the City Council
within the sixty (60) day period and an agreement to extend the time has not
been obtained from the applicant, the plat shall be deemed to have been
approved by the City Council without the acceptance by the City of dedications,
easements, etc.
   C.   If the preliminary plat conforms to all of the standards of the
comprehensive plan, these and other regulations of the community and is
approved or, after the applicant and the City Council agree upon any revision
which shall be filed with the City Council on a revised copy, the subdivider
may proceed with the construction of required improvements and the preparation
of the final plat.
(Code 1991, § 12-432)
Sec 94-105 Approval Period
The approval or conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective
for a period of two (2) years from the date of City Council approval; at the
end of which time, unless a final plat on the subdivision shall have been
submitted to the Planning Commission, the preliminary plat shall be considered
null and void. In such cases, the subdivider shall be required to resubmit a
preliminary plat for the subdivision. In reviewing a preliminary plat which has
been resubmitted by reason of being voided by the passage of time, the Planning
Commission shall not be bound by a previous approval.
(Code 1991, § 12-433)
Sec 94-106 Sectionalizing Subdivision Plats
Prior to approval of a final plat, the Planning Commission may permit the
preliminary plat to be divided into two (2) or more sections and may impose
such conditions upon filing of the final plat sections as it may deem necessary
to ensure the orderly development of the plat.
(Code 1991, § 12-434)
Sec 94-107 Conditional Approval Provisions
The Planning Commission or the City Council may elect to place conditions upon
the approval of the preliminary plat and may stipulate the requirements for
satisfaction of such conditions. In addition, either the Planning Commission or
the City Council may conditionally approve a preliminary plat which is
submitted for consideration without complete improvement plans in order to
expedite the review process. Such conditional approval shall be given only when
the subdivider provides written assurance of plan submission within a specified
period of time which will allow the adequate review of the plans prior to
consideration of the final plat.
(Code 1991, § 12-435)
Sec 94-108 Plat Specifications
Preliminary plats submitted to the Planning Commission shall be drawn at a
scale of one hundred (100) feet to one (1) inch and shall bear, or be
accompanied by, the following information or materials:
   A.   Descriptive margin data.
      1.   Map scale, north point, and date;
      2.   Proposed subdivision name;
      3.   Names and addresses of the owners of record, the subdivider, and the
registered engineer preparing the plat; and
      4.   An inset key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision,
referenced to existing or major streets and to government section lines or
other survey control points, and including the boundaries and number of acres
of the drainage area of which the proposed subdivision is a part;
   B.   Existing conditions.
      1.   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and the owners of
adjoining parcels of un-subdivided land;
      2.   Topography, with contour intervals of two (2) feet or less,
referenced to a United States Geological Surveyor United States Coast and
Geodetic Surveyor National Geodetic Survey benchmark;
      3.   Water elevations of adjoining lakes or steams at the date of the
survey and the approximate high- and low-water elevations of such lakes or
streams; if any portion of any land within the proposed subdivision lies within
the City's designated floodplain, such fact and the land shall be clearly shown
on the preliminary plat;
      4.   Location, widths, and name of all existing platted or dedicated
streets, alleys or other public ways and easements, railroad and utility
rights-of- way, parks, watercourses, drainage ditches, permanent buildings,
bridges, and the location, size, and type of sanitary and storm sewers, water
mains, culverts, power and natural gas lines and other surface and subsurface
structures or pipelines; and
      5.   Zoning district classification (if there is more than one (1)
classification, the dividing lines shall be shown) of land to be subdivided, as
well as adjoining lands;
   C.   Proposed development.
      1.   The boundaries of the proposed subdivision to the indicated scale,
showing the total perimeter; lengths of all lines shall be measured to the
nearest foot and bearings of lines shall be given;
      2.   The location and width of proposed streets, alleys, easements, and
pedestrian ways conforming to the approved street classification criteria;
      3.   The classification of every street within or adjacent to the
proposed subdivision, in accordance with the intended use of the street based
on the proposed design; this shall be done by placing the appropriate term
directly on each street;
      4.   The location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage
structures, the proposed method of disposing of all runoff from the proposed
subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage easements relating
thereto, whether they are located within or outside of the proposed
subdivision;
      5.   Approximate radii of all curves and lengths of all tangents;
      6.   Layout, numbers, and approximate dimensions of lots and the number
or letter of each block;
      7.   Building setback lines with dimensions;
      8.   Indication of any lots on which use other than residential is
proposed by the subdivider;
      9.   The location, size, and type of all proposed public utility lines,
including storm and sanitary sewer, water, gas, and power lines. If a community
sewage treatment plant or other type of community disposal system is to be
installed or constructed to serve all or certain portions of the proposed
subdivision, the general plan for such community type sewage treatment or
disposal system shall be shown or accompany the plat and shall be so identified
on the preliminary plat; and
      10.   The location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches,
school sites, or other special uses of land to be considered for dedication to
public use or to be reserved by deed of covenant for the use of all property
owners in the subdivision and any conditions of such dedication or reservation.
   D.   Additional materials.
      1.   Four (4) copies of a generalized statement, signed by the developer,
describing the conditions existing on the site, suitability for development,
and the potential effects of the proposed development upon the area;
      2.   Four (4) copies of a statement, signed by the registered engineer
preparing the plat, that he has, to the best of his ability, designed the
subdivision in accordance with the comprehensive plan, with which he is
completely familiar, and in accordance with the ordinances and regulations
governing the subdivision of land, except where an exception is requested in
writing;
      3.   A description of the improvement, such as grading, paving, walkways,
and the installation of utilities, etc., which the developer proposes to make
and the times when they are proposed to be made;
      4.   Two (2) copies of profiles shall be furnished for each proposed
street showing existing grades and proposed approximate grades and gradients on
the centerline and along the property lines of the street;
      5.   Two (2) copies of the proposed house numbering system by lot in
accordance with the specifications of Section 14-2 of this Code;
      6.   Where deed restrictions are to be recorded on the plat, a brief
description of the proposed restrictions shall accompany the plat; and
      7.   In case of re-subdivision, a copy of the existing plat shall
accompany the preliminary plat.
   E.   Floodplain subdivision materials.
      1.   Preliminary plan of on-site waste disposal systems, including
disposal sites for lands subject to flooding or sanitary sewers with grade,
pipe size, and points of discharge;
      2.   Preliminary plan of the drainage system with grade, pipe size, and
location of outlet;
      3.   Preliminary plan of the water supply and distribution system with
pipe sizes and location of hydrants; and
      4.   Proposed fill or other structure elevating techniques, levees,
channel modifications, or other methods to overcome flood or related hazards
and a statement describing their impacts on existing development in upstream
and downstream areas.
(Code 1991, § 12-437)
Sec 94-109 Improvement Plans; Generally
The owner or subdivider shall, at the time of his submission of the preliminary
plat to the Planning Commission, also include at least four (4) copies of the
improvement plans required by these subdivision regulations. Improvement plans
shall include, but not be limited to, plans for the following:
   A.   Street improvements;
   B.   Sanitary sewer;
   C.   Water;
   D.   Drainage; and
   E.   Erosion and sediment control.
(Code 1991, § 12-438)
Sec 94-110 Same; Specifications
Plans shall be drawn at a scale of not more than one hundred (100) feet to one
(1) inch on twenty-four (24) inch by thirty-six (36) inch sheets and shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-section of
proposed street improvements, including curbs, gutters and sidewalks;
   B.   The location, size, profile, and invert elevations of proposed sanitary
sewers, including manholes;
   C.   The location and size of proposed water mains, valves, fittings, and
fire hydrants, including service taps underneath proposed streets;
   D.   The location and design of drainage structures, easements, or rights-
of-way dedicated to the public, including typical cross sections of all channel
improvements and a site grading plan. Improvement plans shall be accompanied by
drainage calculations in accordance with the adopted standards and regulations
for drainage improvements; and
   E.   The location of all existing or proposed easements and rights-of-way
and a typical cross-section of the proposed utility installations within the
easements.
(Code 1991, § 12-439)
Sec 94-111 Preparation Of Plans
Improvement plans shall be prepared by and bear the seal of an engineer
registered in the State.
(Code 1991, § 12-440)
Sec 94-112 Erosion And Sediment Control Plans
Erosion and sediment control plans shall be submitted for the Planning
Commission's and City Council's review, showing compliance with the following
provisions, before a final plat may be approved:
   A.   Stands of existing trees, as they are to be preserved upon project
completion, specifying their locations on the property, shall be shown.
Differentiation shall be made between existing trees to be preserved and trees
proposed to be planted;
   B.   The projected sequence of work represented by the erosion and sediment
control plan, as related to other major items of construction, shall be shown;
   C.   Development shall be accomplished so as to minimize adverse effects
upon the natural or existing topography and soil conditions and to minimize the
potential for erosion. No site shall be graded except in accordance with
approved plans to meet foundation, parking, and the drainage requirements of
these regulations;
   D.   Plans for development and construction shall minimize cut and fill
operations;
   E.   During development and construction, adequate protective measures shall
be provided to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of
excavations of the sloping surfaces of fills;
   F.   Fills shall not encroach upon natural watercourses, their floodplains,
or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other properties;
   G.   Alteration of land in existing developed areas shall be conducted in
such a manner that changes in patterns of natural drainage shall not adversely
affect other landowners;
   H.   No construction materials or construction by-products shall be
discarded in any drainage way or stream;
   I.   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size which can be
completed during a single construction season. Erosion and sediment control
measures shall be coordinated with the sequence of grading, development, and
construction operations. Control measures, such as hydro-seeding, berms,
interceptor ditches, terraces, and sediment traps, shall be put into effect
prior to the commencement of each increment of the development/construction
process;
   J.   Sediment basins (debris basins or silt traps) shall be installed in
conjunction with the initial grading operations and maintained through the
development process to remove sediment from runoff waters draining from land
undergoing development;
   K.   Existing trees shall not be cut or otherwise damaged or destroyed
within portions of property to be used for required open space, setback, or
buffer requirements of the City's zoning regulations;
   L.   In cases where retention of natural trees would create unusual hardship
or development problems in open space, setback, and buffer areas, planted trees
may be required in lieu of preserving existing trees;
   M.   No paving with concrete, asphalt, or other impervious material within
the tree crown zone of trees to be preserved shall be allowed; and
   N.   Soil and other materials shall not be temporarily or permanently stored
in locations which would cause suffocation of root systems of trees to be
preserved.
(Code 1991, § 12-441)
DIVISION 94-2-4 FINAL PLATS
   
94-136   Final Plat
   
94-137   Application
   
94-138   Planning Commission Review
   
94-139   City Council Review
   
94-140   Approval Period
   
94-141   Boundary Traverse Closure
   
94-142   Final Plat And Plat Record Specifications
Sec 94-136 Final Plat
The purpose of the final plat is to create a document for record which
accurately describes the subdivided land, both as to accurate dimensions and
legal provisions which are pertinent to the subdivision.
(Code 1991, § 12-442)
Sec 94-137 Application
Following approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Commission and the
City Council, the owner or subdivider shall file a written application with the
Chairman of the Planning Commission or his designated representative on the
municipal staff or final plat approval. The application shall:
   A.   Be made on forms available in the office of the City Clerk;
   B.   Comply in all respects with the preliminary plat, as approved by both
the Planning Commission and the City Council, if necessary;
   C.   Be accompanied by at least four (4) prints of the proposed plat and
either one (1) original linen tracing or a reproduction original of stable
polyester base or stable polyester base film;
   D.   Be accompanied by two (2) copies of the proposed restrictive covenants;
   E.   Be accompanied by one (1) set of as built plans for any improvements
already completed; and
   F.   Be delivered to the Planning Commission Chairman, or his designated
representative on the City staff, not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the
meeting date at which the plat is to be reviewed.
(Code 1991, § 12-443)
Sec 94-138 Planning Commission Review
Upon receipt of the final plat application and materials, the Chairman of the
Planning Commission shall set a date for Planning Commission review of the
final plat and shall notify the owner or subdivider, in writing, of the review
date. The Planning Commission's review shall be in accordance with the
following provisions:
   A.   The final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for final approval within two (2) years of the date on
which the preliminary plat was approved by the City Council. If not submitted
for final approval within such time, the preliminary plat shall be considered
as having been disapproved unless the Planning Commission agrees to an
extension of time;
   B.   The Planning Commission shall act upon the final plat within forty-five
(45) days after it has been submitted to the Planning Commission Chairman for
final approval. The subdivider shall be notified in writing upon approval or
conditional approval of the plat by the Planning Commission. If no action on
the plat has been taken within the above-specified time and the applicant does
not agree to an extension of time for action, the plat shall be deemed to have
been approved. Certification by the City Clerk as to the date of the final
plat's submission and the failure of the Planning Commission to act thereon
within such time shall be sufficient in lieu of written endorsement of
approval;
   C.   If the final plat is disapproved by the Planning Commission, the
reasons for such disapproval shall be stated in writing, with reference to
specific sections of the comprehensive plan or those ordinances or regulations
with which the plat does not comply. A copy of this statement shall be sent to
the applicant, along with one (1) of the prints submitted by the applicant;
   D.   If the plat conforms to all of the requirements provided in this
section, one (1) copy of the final plat shall be forwarded to the City Council
for its review, along with the written recommendation of the Planning
Commission and the signature of the Chairman of the Planning Commission on the
approved plat; and
   E.   No vested rights shall accrue to any plat by reason of preliminary or
final approval until the actual signing of the final plat by the Chairman of
the Planning Commission. All requirements, conditions, or regulations adopted
by the Planning Commission applicable to the subdivision, or on all
subdivisions generally, shall be deemed a condition for any subdivision prior
to the time of signing of the final plat by the Chairman of the Planning
Commission. Where the Planning Commission has required the installation of
improvements prior to signing of the final plat, the commission shall not
unreasonably modify the conditions set forth in the final approval.
(Code 1991, § 12-444)
Sec 94-139 City Council Review
The City Clerk shall be responsible for placing the subdivision on the agenda
of the City Council and providing written notice of the date to the Chairman of
the Planning Commission and the owner of the subdivision or his agent. The City
Council's review of the subdivision shall be in accordance with the following
provisions:
   A.   The City Council shall approve or disapprove the final plat and notify
the subdivider in writing of its action. Such notification shall include
specific references to those portions of the plat which are not in compliance
with these or other regulations, if the plat is disapproved; and
   B.   After the final approval of the plat and the affixing of all required
signatures on the original tracing, the subdivider shall provide the Planning
Commission with three (3) dark-line prints thereof and file with the City Clerk
one (1) contact reproducible tracing. The applicant shall file the original
tracing and two (2) prints with the County Clerk.
(Code 1991, § 12-445)
Sec 94-140 Approval Period
The final plat shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk within two (2)
years after final approval by the City Council; if not filed within such time,
the approval shall be considered null and void.
(Code 1991, § 12-446)
Sec 94-141 Boundary Traverse Closure
Boundary traverse closure data, based on the engineer's calculations thereof,
shall be provided to the office of the City Clerk at the time of submission of
the final plat.
(Code 1991, § 12-447)
Sec 94-142 Final Plat And Plat Record Specifications
   A.   Any final plat submitted to the Planning Commission and any plat
submitted for recording shall have the following specifications:
      1.   The dimensions of the plat shall be twenty-four (24) inch by thirty-
six (36) inch; or shall be a size that can be properly and conveniently folded
to these dimensions and shall be drawn to a minimum scale of one hundred (100)
feet to the inch; except that plats in which all lots contain a net area in
excess of forty thousand (40,000) square feet, the plat may be drawn to a scale
of two hundred (200) feet to the inch;
      2.   The drawing surface of the plat shall have a binding margin of two
(2) inches at the left side of the plat, a margin of not less than one (1) inch
at the right side, and a margin of not less than one and one-half (1 1/2)
inches at the top and bottom;
      3.   The original tracing of each plat and two (2) prints thereof shall
be presented for recording;
      4.   The original plat shall be an original drawing made with India ink
on a good grade linen tracing cloth or with a suitable black acetate-based ink
on a stable polyester-based film coated upon completion with a suitable plastic
material to prevent flaking and to ensure permanent legibility, or a print on a
stable polyester-based film made by photographic processes from a film scribing
tested for residual hypo with an approved hypo testing solution to ensure
permanency;
      5.   Marginal lines, standard certificates, and approval forms may be
printed or legibly stamped on the plat with permanent opaque black ink when
permitted by local ordinance; and
      6.   The County Clerk may require one (1) of the prints to be a blueprint
cloth and the other print to be a photographic matte film positive.
   B.   The final plat shall bear or be accompanied by the following
information or materials:
      1.   Title data:
         a.   Name of the subdivision;
         b.   Name of the City, County, and State; and
         c.   Location and description of the subdivision, referenced to
section, range and township.
      2.   Margin data:
         a.   Map scale, north arrow, and date;
         b.   Names and addresses of the developer and the engineer or
surveyor;
         c.   A key map, on the first sheet in a plat series, showing the
location of the subdivision referenced to government section corners, section
lines and major streets. When more than two (2) sheets are required for the
plat, the key map shall show the sheet number of the sheet for the area
included on the sheet;
         d.   Owner's certificate and dedication, signed;
         e.   Surveyor's certificate or survey, signed and his seal;
         f.   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to
the public, signed;
         g.   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds, which directly
affect the land being subdivided;
         h.   The proper acknowledgements of owners and the consent of the
mortgagee to plat restrictions;
         i.   County Treasurer's certificate;
         j.   Approval certificate of the Planning Commission, and the date,
over the signature of the Planning Commission Chairman;
         k.   Certificate of City Council acceptance of ways, easements, and
the public land dedications; and
         l.   Certificate of Health Department approval, where sanitary sewers
are not proposed, signed.
      3.   Existing and proposed conditions:
         a.   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees and minutes, as specified in this section;
         b.   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided, fully
dimensioned by lengths and bearings, and the location of boundary lines of
adjoining lands with adjacent subdivisions identified by official names;
         c.   The lines of all proposed streets, fully dimensioned by lengths
and bearings or angles;
         d.   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the length or direction
of an alley is not readily discernible from data given for lot and block lines,
the length and bearing shall be given;
         e.   The widths and names, where appropriate, of all proposed streets
and alleys, and of all adjacent streets, alleys, and easements which shall be
properly located;
         f.   The lines of all proposed lots, fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles, except that where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the angle or bearing value may be omitted;
         g.   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to
public use, fully dimensioned and marked "public";
         h.   Blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision
and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with areas to be
excluded from platting marked "reserved" or "not a part";
         i.   The location of all building lines, setback lines, and easements
for public services or utilities, with dimensions showing their location;
         j.   The radii, arcs, points, or tangency, points of intersection and
central angles for curvilinear streets and radii for all property returns; and
         k.   The location and description of all section corners and permanent
survey monuments in or near the tract. Reference to at least one (1), and
preferably two (2), known survey control points shall be shown by angle and
distance.
      4.   Floodplain subdivision materials:
         a.   All information required on the preliminary plat, including, but
not limited to, regulatory flood elevations, boundaries of flood prone areas,
fills, flood protection works, and areas subject to special deed restrictions;
         b.   Floodway and floodway fringe areas determined by the City;
         c.   Final plans for any sanitary, sewers, with grading, pipe sizes
and points of discharge;
         d.   Final plans for drainage systems, with grading, impacting,
storage, and regulating structures, pipe sizes and location of outlets; and
         e.   Final plans for any water supply and distribution system, with
pipe sizes and location of hydrants.
(Code 1991, § 12-448)
State Law reference- Plat record specifications, 11 O.S. § 41-108.
ARTICLE 94-3 SUBDIVISION DESIGN
   
94-166   General Design Principles And Standards
   
94-167   Streets; General Provisions
   
94-168   Same; Alignment
   
94-169   Same; Cul-De-Sacs And Dead-End Streets
   
94-170   Intersections
   
94-171   Alleys
   
94-172   Easements; Street And Alley
   
94-173   Same; Utility
   
94-174   Same; Drainage
   
94-175   Lots
   
94-176   Blocks
   
94-177   Building Lines
   
94-178   Public Areas
   
94-179   Parks, Open Spaces, And Natural Features
   
94-180   Planned Unit Development
   
94-181   Nonresidential Subdivisions
Sec 94-166 General Design Principles And Standards
   A.   The design of each new subdivision shall be prepared in accordance with
the principles established by the comprehensive plan for the City for land use,
transportation, community facilities, and public utility services, and with the
minimum standards of these and other regulations, to ensure efficient and
coordinated development of the entire community.
   B.   The sizes of lots, blocks, and other areas for residential, commercial,
industrial, and public uses shall be designed to provide adequate light, air,
open space, landscaping, and off-street parking and loading facilities.
   C.   The arrangement of lots, blocks, and the street system should be
designed to make the most advantageous use of topography and natural physical
features. Tree masses or large individual trees should be preserved. The system
of sidewalks, roadways, and the lot layout should be designed to take advantage
of the visual qualities of the area.
(Code 1991, § 12-450)
Sec 94-167 Streets; General Provisions
The following general provisions shall apply to streets in subdivisions
designed in accordance with this article:
   A.   No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided shall
have frontage on, and access from, an existing street, unless such street is:
      1.   An existing State or County highway; or
      2.   A street shown upon a plat approved by the Planning Commission and
recorded in the County Clerk's office. Such street or highway must be suitably
improved as required by the highway regulations and specifications or must be
secured by a performance bond required under these subdivision regulations with
the width and right-of-way required by these subdivision regulations.
   B.   Wherever the area to be subdivided is to utilize existing road
frontage, such road shall be suitably improved as provided herein.
   C.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all
streets shall conform to all of the elements of the comprehensive plan and be
designed in accordance with the provisions of these and other applicable
regulations.
   D.   Roads shall be related appropriately to the topography. Local roads
shall be curved wherever possible to provide topographic compatibility. All
streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the building
sites at or above the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall conform as
closely as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep grades
and curves shall be avoided.
   E.   All thoroughfares shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches, and
shopping centers, to population densities, and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
   F.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other access
ways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, location of
rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and maneuvering
areas, and walks, and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of movement
between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
   G.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions,
unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, such extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with the existing layout or the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracks.
   H.   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned or
intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of the proposed
future street system for the un-subdivided portion shall be prepared and
submitted by the subdivider.
   I.   No street name shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to the approval of
the Planning Commission and the City Council.
   J.   Major streets in the subdivision shall be planned to conform with the
major street plan adopted by the City, and provision shall be made for the
extension of major and secondary thoroughfares. Except for courts, places, or
cul-de-sacs, streets normally shall connect with streets already dedicated in
the adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, provide for future connections to
adjoining un-subdivided tracts, be a reasonable projection of streets in the
nearest subdivided tracts, or conform to a neighborhood plan approved or
adopted by the Planning Commission.
   K.   Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed major
street, the Planning Commission may require service streets, reverse frontage
with screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear
property line, deep lots or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
through and local traffic.
   L.   Minor streets shall be laid out so that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   M.   Railroad rights-of-way and limited access highways, where so located as
to affect the subdivision of adjoining lands, shall be treated as follows:
      1.   In residential districts, a buffer strip at least twenty-five (25)
feet in depth in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the
district shall be provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited
access highway. This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be
designated on the plat: "This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of
structures hereon is prohibited";
      2.   In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses, the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites; and
      3.   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least one hundred fifty (150) feet from the railroad right-of-
way. Such distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum
distance required for future separation of grades by means of appropriate
approach gradients.
   N.   Reserve strips controlling access to minor streets by parties or
persons other than public agencies shall be prohibited.
   O.   Half-streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and provided that the Planning Commission
finds it will be practical to obtain the dedication of the other half of the
street easement when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever a half
street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street
shall be platted within the tract which is being subdivided.
   P.   Whenever the major or minor street is located wholly within the
proposed subdivision, the total width of the right-of-way shall be dedicated;
whenever the major or minor street is located adjacent to the outer edge of the
subdivision, one-half (½) of the right-of-way shall be dedicated, if it is
determined by the Planning Commission that it is equitable and feasible from an
engineering design standpoint for the other half of the right-of-way to be
dedicated from adjacent property.
   Q.   The finished elevation of proposed streets within the designated
floodplain shall be no more than two (2) feet below the level of the one
hundred (100) year flood.
   R.   The criteria established in the table below shall be followed in the
layout and design of all major and minor streets:
Street Design Standards
Design Element Major Streets                               Minor Streets
               Primary Thoroughfare Secondary Thoroughfare Collector Local
Street Design Standards
                   Major Streets                 Minor Streets
Design Element     Primary          Secondary    Collector Local
                   Thoroughfare     Thoroughfare
Design speed       40 mph           30 mph       30 mph    25 mph
Grade:
Maximum            5%               7%           10%       10%
Minimum            0.5%             0.5%         0.5%      0.5%
Stopping sight     350 ft           200 ft       200 ft    200 ft
distance
Number of traffic  4 (min.)         4            2         2
lanes
                   Asphalt section  Structurally 6 in.     6 in.*
                                   designed
Minimum paving     Concrete section Structurally 6 in.     6 in.
thickness                           designed
                   Residential      ---          ---       Bituminous surface
                   estates section
Minimum r-o-       100 ft           80 ft        60 ft     50 ft
w width
Minimum roadway    50 ft            50 ft        32 ft     26 ft
width
Traffic lane       12 ft            12 ft        12 ft
effective width
Shoulder or        10 ft            10 ft        6 ft      6 ft
parking lane width
* Minor commercial streets shall have a minimum paving thickness of six (6)
inches.
 
      1.   No curbing is required if the subdivision is zoned R-l (residential
estates) and all lots contain one and one-half (1 1/2) acres or more with a
minimum of two hundred ten (210) feet of road frontage per lot. Subdivisions
shall also contain a minimum of twenty (20) acres and one thousand five hundred
(1,500) linear feet of streets within subdivisions.
      2.   Street widths shall be measured from edge of asphalt to edge of
asphalt.
      3.   Street shall slope from the centerline to the edge of the shoulder
at one- fourth (¼) inch fall per one (1) foot;
      4.   Base shall vary in accordance with local conditions, including soil
tests, and shall be approved by a specified engineer. Base rock shall be as per
section 703.1, "Aggregate for aggregate base type A" of the State Standard
Specification for Highway Construction.
(Code 1991, § 12-451; Ord. No. 99-06, § 1, 3-1-1999; Ord. No. 16-04, § II, 8-1-
2016)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 94-168 Same; Alignment
   A.   The arrangement of streets shall provide for the continuation of
principal streets between adjacent properties when such continuation is
necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire protection, for
efficient provision of utilities, and where such continuation is in accordance
with the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred fifty
(150) feet shall be avoided.
   C.   A tangent of not less than one hundred (100) feet in length shall be
introduced between reverse curves on major streets and collector streets.
(Code 1991, § 12-452)
Sec 94-169 Same; Cul-De-Sacs And Dead-End Streets
   A.   The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall normally be five hundred (500)
feet, including a turnaround which shall be provided at the closed end, with an
inside curb radius of at least forty (40) feet and right-of-way radius of not
less than fifty (50) feet.
   B.   In the case of temporarily dead-ended streets which are incomplete but
designed to provide future connection with adjoining unsubdivided areas, proper
provisions shall be made for adequate storm drainage so that stormwater does
not collect at the ends of these streets. If the adjacent property is
undeveloped and the street must be a dead-end street temporarily, the right-of-
way shall be extended to the property line. A temporary T- or L-shaped
turnabout shall be provided on all temporary dead-end streets, with the
notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right-of-
way shall revert to abuttors whenever the street is continued. The Planning
Commission may limit the length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance
with the design standards of these regulations.
   C.   Where a road does not extend to the boundary of the subdivision and its
continuation is not required by the Planning Commission for access to adjoining
property, its terminus shall normally not be nearer to such boundary than fifty
(50) feet. However, the Planning Commission may require the reservation of an
appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian traffic, or
utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at the end of a permanent
dead-end street. For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police
and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall, in general, be limited
in length in accordance with the design standards of these regulations.
(Code 1991, § 12-453)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 94-170 Intersections
   A.   Angle of intersection. Street shall be laid out to intersect at right
angles and may be curved, if necessary, in order to make this possible. In no
event shall a street intersect any other street at any angle of less than
seventy-five (75) degrees.
   B.   Radius of residential streets. Street corners on local residential
streets shall have a minimum radius of twenty (20) feet at the curb line or its
equivalent.
   C.   Radius of commercial and industrial streets. Street corners on
commercial and industrial streets shall have a minimum radius of twenty-five
(25) feet at the curb line or its equivalent.
   D.   Radius of major streets. Street intersections involving major streets
shall have a minimum street corner radius of thirty (30) feet at the curb line
or its equivalent.
   E.   Area of clear vision. A twenty-five (25) foot area of clear vision at
street intersections in subdivisions shall be provided. This area shall be kept
clear of all structures and vegetation exceeding a height of three (3) feet
above the established municipal street elevation. Where any street intersection
will involve earth banks or existing vegetation inside any lot corner that
would create a traffic hazard by limiting visibility, the developer shall cut
such ground or vegetation, including trees, in connection with the grading of
the public right-of-way to the extent deemed necessary to provide an adequate
sight distance.
   F.   Grade. Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a two percent (2%) rate
at a distance of sixty (60) feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line
of the intersecting street.
(Code 1991, § 12-454)
Sec 94-171 Alleys
   A.   Required for commercial and industrial districts. Alleys shall be
provided in commercial and industrial districts, except that the Planning
Commission may waive this requirement where other definite and ensured
provisions are made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading,
and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
   B.   Width. Alleys serving commercial and industrial areas shall not be less
than thirty (30) feet in width.
   C.   Alleys in residential districts. Alleys are not required for
residential areas, but when provided, shall not be less than twenty (20) feet
in width.
   D.   Intersections and changes in alignment. Alley intersections and sharp
changes in alignment shall be avoided, but where necessary corners shall be cut
off sufficiently to permit safe vehicular movement.
   E.   Dead-end alleys. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but
if unavoidable, then shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at
the dead end, as determined by the Planning Commission.
(Code 1991, § 12-455)
Sec 94-172 Easements; Street And Alley
   A.   Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than ten (10) feet
wide shall be provided along each rear lot line and alongside lot lines where
necessary for use by public and private utilities. The Planning Commission may
require aerial easements and easements of greater width for the extension of
main storm and sanitary sewers and other utilities where it is deemed
necessary.
   B.   Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards designated in these
regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography, additional width is
necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes shall not be in excess
of three (3) to one (1).
(Code 1991, § 12-458)
Sec 94-173 Same; Utility
   A.   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities,
private and municipal, such easements shall be at least ten (10) feet wide.
Proper coordination shall be established between the subdivider and the
applicable utility companies for the establishment of utility easements
established in adjoining properties.
   B.   Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make impractical
the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual unobstructed
easements at least ten (10) feet in width shall be provided alongside lot lines
with satisfactory access to the road or rear lot lines. Easements shall be
indicated on the plat.
(Code 1991, § 12-459)
Sec 94-174 Same; Drainage
   A.   Provision for stormwater drainage. Where a subdivision is traversed by
a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a
stormwater easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially to the
lines of such watercourse and of such width and construction, or both, as will
be adequate for the purpose. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the
drainage be maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate
width for maximum potential volume of flow.
   B.   Drainage facilities outside road rights-of-way. Where topography or
other conditions are such as to make impractical the inclusion of drainage
facilities within road rights-of-way, perpetual unobstructed easements at least
fifteen (15) feet in width for such drainage facilities shall be provided
across property outside the road lines and with satisfactory access to the
road. Easements shall be indicated on the plat. Drainage easements shall be
carried from the road to a natural watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
   C.   Drainage across private land. When a proposed drainage system will
carry water across private land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage
rights must be secured and indicated on the plat.
   D.   Dedication by applicant. The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or
by drainage or conservation easement of land on both sides of existing
watercourses, to a distance to be determined by the Planning Commission.
   E.   Low-lying lands. Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding
or overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage
ways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be computed in
determining the number of lots to be utilized for average density procedure not
for computing the area requirement of any lot.
(Code 1991, § 12-460)
Sec 94-175 Lots
   A.   Arrangement. Lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no
foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning
regulations and health regulations and in providing driveway access to
buildings on such lots from an approved street. Where possible, driveways shall
be designed and arranged so as to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic
on major or secondary arterials.
   B.   Dimensions. Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of
the zoning regulations. Where lots are more than double the minimum required
area for the zoning district, the Planning Commission may require that such
lots be arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future
streets where they would be necessary to serve such potential lots, all in
compliance with the zoning regulations and these regulations.
   C.   Lot lines. In general, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
street lines or radial to curving street lines unless a variation from this
rule will give a better street or lot plan. Dimensions of corner lots shall be
large enough to allow for erection of buildings, observing the minimum front
yard setback from both streets.
   D.   Depth of residential lots. The depth of residential lot, other than
lots for townhouses, should not be less than one hundred (100) feet.
   E.   Area of residential lots. The area of residential lots, other than lots
for townhouses, shall not be less than six thousand five hundred (6,500) square
feet.
   F.   County Health Department approval of size. In subdivisions where septic
tanks or other individual sewage disposal devices are to be installed, the size
of all lots included in such subdivision shall be subject to the approval of
the County Health Department. The Health Department shall notify the developer
and the Planning Commission in writing of its finding.
   G.   Double and reverse frontage lots. Double frontage and reverse frontage
lots shall be avoided except where they are needed to provide for the
separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
   H.   Commercial and industrial subdivisions. Lots shall not be required for
subdivisions for commercial and industrial use, but when provided should be of
appropriate size and arrangement to provide for adequate off-street parking and
loading facilities based on the intended use. No individual parcel shall be
created for a particular commercial or industrial use that has an area, width,
or depth that is less than is required for the permitted use under the
applicable provisions of the zoning regulations.
(Code 1991, § 12-461)
Sec 94-176 Blocks
   A.   The dimensions and shape of blocks shall be generally determined with
regard for the following:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      2.   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of
street traffic; and
      4.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   B.   Blocks for residential use shall not be longer than one thousand eight
hundred (1,800) feet, measured along the centerline of the block.
   C.   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks not less than four (4) feet wide or more
than ten (10) feet in width may be required by the Planning Commission through
the center of blocks more than eight hundred (800) feet long, where deemed
essential to provide circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping
centers, transportation, or other community facilities.
   D.   Blocks used for residential purposes should be of sufficient width to
allow for two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for
business and industrial use should be of a width suitable for the intended use,
with due allowance for off- street parking and loading facilities.
(Code 1991, § 12-462)
Sec 94-177 Building Lines
   A.   Building lines shall be provided for all residential subdivisions in
accordance with the setback requirements of the zoning regulations.
   B.   A side yard building line shall be provided not less than five (5) feet
back of a crosswalk right-of-way line on the side of a lot abutting a midblock
crosswalk.
   C.   Where there is found to be a producing oil or gas well which is in or
within one hundred fifty (150) feet of the boundaries of the proposed
subdivision or an abandoned oil or gas well which is not adequately plugged
according to the standards established by State law and the State Corporation
Commission, and so certified by the Corporation Commission, and which is
outside of the boundaries of a proposed subdivision but within one hundred
fifty (150) feet thereof, there shall be a building setback line so placed on
the plat so as to prevent the erection of any building within one hundred fifty
(150) feet of such wells. Where there is found to be an abandoned oil or gas
well which is adequately plugged according to the standards established by
State law and the State Corporation Commission, which well is within the
boundaries of a proposed subdivision, certificate or clearance from the State
Corporation Commission shall be obtained for each such well before the final
plat of the subdivision is approved.
(Code 1991, § 12-463)
Cross reference- Buildings and building regulations, Ch.
14.
Sec 94-178 Public Areas
   A.   Except when an applicant utilizes planned unit development, whenever a
tract to be subdivided includes a school, recreation uses in excess of the
requirements of Section 94-179, or other public use as indicated on the
comprehensive plan or any portion thereof, such space shall be suitably
incorporated by the applicant into his sketch plat. After proper determination
of its necessity by the Planning Commission and the appropriate local
government official or other public agency involved in the acquisition and use
of each such site, and after a determination has been made to acquire the site
by the public agency, the site shall be suitably incorporated by the applicant
into the preliminary and final plats.
   B.   The Planning Commission shall refer the sketch plat to the public body
concerned with acquisition for its consideration and report. The Planning
Commission may propose alternate areas for such acquisition and shall allow the
public body or agency thirty (30) days for reply. The agency's recommendation,
if affirmative, shall include a map showing the boundaries and area of the
parcel to be acquired and an estimate of the time required to complete the
acquisition.
   C.   Upon receipt of an affirmative report, the Planning Commission shall
notify the property owner and designate on the preliminary and final plats that
area proposed to be acquired by the public body.
   D.   The acquisition of land reserved by a public agency on the final plat
shall be initiated within twelve (12) months of notification, in writing, from
the owner that he intends to develop the land. Such letter of intent shall be
accompanied by a sketch plat of the proposed development and a tentative
schedule of construction. Failure on the part of the public agency to initiate
acquisition within the prescribed twelve (12) months shall result in the
removal of the "reserved" designation from the property involved and the
freeing of the property for development in accordance with these regulations.
(Code 1991, § 12-464)
Sec 94-179 Parks, Open Spaces, And Natural Features
   A.   Where, as indicated by the comprehensive plan, a proposed subdivision
contains, wholly or in part, a proposed public open space, parks, recreation
areas, etc., the following land requirement shall apply:
      1.   In subdivisions containing eighty (80) acres or more the subdivider
shall make a dedication of suitable land for public purposes of not less than
two percent (2%) of total land area of the subdivision;
      2.   In subdivisions containing less than eighty (80) acres, the Planning
Commission shall require the dedication of two percent (2%) of total land area
or shall require the payment of a fee equal to the market value of two percent
(2%) of the total land area of the subdivision. Such fee is to be deposited in
a fund reserved and expended for park facilities and improvements only;
      3.   In lieu of either of the above standards, the subdivider may elect
to retain two percent (2%) of the total land area to be designated as park or
open spaces, etc., such land to be maintained by the subdivider or by agreement
of the purchasers of lots in the subdivision; and
      4.   In no case will the subdivider dedicate land for public parks and
open spaces unless the City agrees to develop and maintain such parks or open
spaces.
   B.   Existing features which would add value to residential development or
to the City as a whole, such as trees, as defined in this chapter, watercourses
and falls, landmarks, historic sites and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be
preserved in the design of the subdivision, whenever possible. No trees shall
be removed from any subdivision nor any change of grade of the land effected
until approval of the preliminary plat has been granted. All trees on the plat
required to be retained shall be preserved, and all trees where required shall
be welled and protected against change of grade. The sketch plat shall show the
number and location of existing trees and shall further indicate all those
marked for retention and the location of all proposed shade trees along the
street side of each lot.
   C.   New trees provided in new subdivisions shall be approved by the
Planning Commission and shall be planted in accordance with any City
regulations. Only long-lived shade trees, acceptable to the Planning
Commission, shall be planted.
   D.   For shade tree easement and dedication, the preliminary plat and final
plat shall preserve an easement authorizing the local government to plant shade
trees within five (5) feet of the required right-of-way of the local
government; this provision may be waived at the option of the Planning
Commission.
(Code 1991, § 12-456)
Cross reference- Parks and recreation, Ch.
74.
Sec 94-180 Planned Unit Development
Whenever a subdivision is developed as a planned unit development under the
appropriate provisions of the zoning regulations, wherein adequate park or
recreation area is provided, through traffic is cared for adequately and the
majority of the minor streets are of the cul-de-sac or loop type, the Planning
Commission may vary the design requirements of these regulations in order to
allow the subdivider more freedom in the arrangement of streets and lots, but
at the same time protect the convenience, health, safety, and welfare of the
entire community. However, in no case shall the overall density, intensity of
use, or land area coverage for the planned unit development exceed those
minimums established in the zoning regulations under the provision of the R-6,
planned residential development district, or the C-4, planned commercial
district.
(Code 1991, § 12-466)
Sec 94-181 Nonresidential Subdivisions
   A.   If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for commercial or
industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect to such land
shall make such provisions as the Planning Commission may require.
   B.   A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the
requirements of site plan approval set forth in the zoning regulations. Site
plan approval and nonresidential subdivision plat approval may proceed
simultaneously at the discretion of the Planning Commission. A nonresidential
subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these regulations, as
well as such additional standards required by the Planning Commission, and
shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established in the
comprehensive plan and zoning regulations.
   C.   In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission that
the street parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the
uses anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The
following principles and standards shall be observed:
      1.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated;
      2.   Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon;
      3.   Special requirements may be imposed with respect to street, curb,
gutter, and sidewalk design and construction;
      4.   Special requirements maybe imposed with respect to the installation
of public utilities, including water, sewer, and stormwater drainage;
      5.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from the potential nuisance of a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary; and
      6.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
(Code 1991, § 12-467)
ARTICLE 94-4 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
DIVISION 94-4-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 94-4-2 WATER AND SEWERAGE IMPROVEMENTS
DIVISION 94-4-3 DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
DIVISION 94-4-1 GENERALLY
   
94-207   Improvement And Maintenance Bonds
   
94-208   Plans Required
   
94-209   Miscellaneous Provisions
   
94-210   Monuments And Markers
   
94-211   Streets And Alleys
   
94-212   Bridges And Culverts
   
94-213   Street And Regulatory Signs
   
94-214   Street Lights
   
94-215   Pedestrian Ways
   
94-216   Bikeways
   
94-217   Landscaping And Natural Features
Sec 94-207 Improvement And Maintenance Bonds
   A.   Such bonds, provided to guarantee the installation and maintenance of
the required improvements, shall:
      1.   Be in favor of the City;
      2.   Be in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of
improvements, installations, and reasonable maintenance thereof, as approved by
the City Council; and
      3.   Provide conditions satisfactory to the Planning Commission and the
City Council.
   B.   Performance bonds shall be in force until and terminate ninety (90)
days after the filing with the City Council of a completion affidavit obtained
from the City Building Official, unless within the ninety (90) days the
Building Official determines that the requirements, standards, and
specifications of these standards applicable to the construction, installation,
and completion of the improvements have not been met. In such case, the
Building Official shall notify the applicant in writing, by registered or
certified mail, and the bond shall continue to run until the filing of proof
that the deficiencies have been corrected and all standards met. The
performance bond shall not be released until required as built plans and
specifications are received by the City.
   C.   Maintenance bonds shall run for a period of one (1) year from the date
of release of the performance bond.
(Code 1991, § 12-471)
Sec 94-208 Plans Required
   A.   Plans for the improvements required by this article shall be prepared
by a qualified engineer or the City Engineer and shall be approved by the City
Council, or its designee, prior to final plat approval.
   B.   One (1) set of as built plans and specifications, certified and signed
by an engineer registered in the State, shall be filed with the City Clerk
prior to the acceptance by the City Council of any improvements installed by
the subdivider.
(Code 1991, § 12-472)
Sec 94-209 Miscellaneous Provisions
   A.   Design and installations generally. All improvements shall be designed
and installed so as to provide for a logical system of utilities, drainage, and
streets and to create continuity of improvements for the development of
adjacent properties.
   B.   Time limitation on completion. The construction and installation of all
improvements required by these rules and regulations shall be completed within
two (2) years of the date of approval of the final plat by the Planning
Commission, unless good cause can be shown for the granting of an extension of
time by authority of the Planning Commission or City Council.
   C.   Location of utility facilities. All utility facilities, including, but
not limited to, gas, electricity, telephone, and CATV cables, may be located
underground within the subdivision. Wherever existing facilities are located
aboveground, except where such facilities are located on public roads or
rights-of-way, they may be removed and placed underground. Underground service
connections to the street property line of each platted lot shall be installed
at the developer's expense. At the discretion of the Planning Commission, the
requirement for service connections to each lot may be waived in the case of
adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership and intended to be developed
for the same primary use. After installation of such lines, "as installed"
diagrams shall be furnished by the installer to the City Manager, drawn to
scale and indicating the location of all lines.
   D.   Compliance laws, rules, and regulations. In addition to the
requirements established in this section, all subdivision plats shall comply
with the following laws, rule, and regulations:
      1.   All applicable provisions of State statutes;
      2.   The adopted zoning regulations, building, and housing codes and all
other applicable laws of the City;
      3.   The official comprehensive plan and capital improvements program of
the City;
      4.   The special requirements of any rules and regulations of the State
Health Department or other appropriate State agencies;
      5.   The rules and regulations of the State department of transportation,
if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a State highway or
connecting street; and
      6.   The standards and regulations adopted by the City Engineer and all
boards, commissions, agencies and officials of the City.
(Code 1991, § 12-473)
Sec 94-210 Monuments And Markers
The following provisions shall apply to monuments and markers placed in
subdivisions regulated by this chapter:
   A.   The developer of any subdivision shall install within that subdivision,
permanent reference monuments and markers, placed flush with the ground, in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   B.   All monuments and markers shall be properly set in the ground and
approved by a registered land surveyor prior to the time the Planning
Commission recommends approval of the final plat.
   C.   Existing monuments or markers shall not be disturbed, unless absolutely
necessary, in which case the monuments or markers shall be replaced at the
exact spot from which they were removed.
   D.   The location of all monuments and markers shall be included on the
final plat.
   E.   Three (3) types of monuments and markers shall be used for different
situations. The following specifications shall be applicable to each type of
situation:
      1.   Type A. Permanent reference monuments shall be placed at the
intersection of the centerlines of rights-of-way, regardless of whether the
paving of the street is centered in the right-of-way. There shall be a minimum
of two (2) such monuments in each subdivision. If no two (2) of the
intersection monuments are within line-of-sight of each other, an additional
marker shall be placed on the right-of-way centerline, so as to establish a
straight line which can be seen (line-of-sight) from one (1) end to the other.
An additional such marker shall be placed at the center-point of the turnaround
in each cul-de-sac. These monuments shall be of non-corrosive metal plate, set
in accordance with the following diagram, and each shall be stamped with a
cross at the point of the intersection and the elevation to the nearest tenth
(0.10) of a foot.
   F.   Type B. Permanent reference markers shall be placed at each turning
point in the external boundary of the subdivision to be set in concrete in
accordance with the following diagram:
   G.   Type C. Permanent reference markers shall be placed at:
      1.   Each corner of each block;
      2.   Each corner of each lot;
      3.   The points of curvature and points of tangency of all inside and
outside rights-of-way lines;
      4.   The point of intersection of the outside line of a curve in a street
right-of- way; and
      5.   On all quarter (1/4) section points within the subdivision or on its
perimeter to be set in unexcavated earth.
(Code 1991, § 12-474)
Sec 94-211 Streets And Alleys
The following provisions shall apply to streets and alleys in subdivisions
regulated by this chapter:
   A.   The developer of any subdivision designed to be used for residential,
commercial, or other purposes shall layout, grade, and otherwise improve all
streets that are designated on the approved plat or that directly serve the
subdivision in accordance with the standards and specifications of these and
other applicable regulations.
   B.   Streets shall conform in design and layout to the standards and
principles contained in Article 3 of this chapter.
   C.   Every lot within a subdivision shall have access to a public street.
Private streets, where permitted, must comply with the improvements required of
comparable public streets.
   D.   Whenever a subdivision contains a major street that requires a street
facility that is future occupants of the subdivision, the subdivider shall be
required to pay only the portion of the cost of the major street that would
equal the cost of an improvement required to serve only the subdivision, as
determined by the City Council.
   E.   Streets shall be designed, graded, and improved to conform to the
design and construction specifications and diagrams contained in these
regulations. Contracts for construction of new public streets shall contain, in
whole or by reference, the provisions of these regulations pertaining to street
improvements. Construction plans for all street improvements shall be approved
by the City Council prior to final plat approval and filing.
   F.   Due to reduced street standards for subdivisions zoned for residential
estates development (R-1, residential estates district), a maximum of forty
(40) acres should be served by one (1) collector street. Where such collector
streets will serve more than forty (40) acres, the Planning Commission may
require higher quality street improvement more costly than is required to serve
the standards be met by such collector.
   G.   In areas where alleys are required, they shall be constructed in
accordance with those standards and requirements which may be established by
the City Council.
   Notes:
      1.   Paving section shown is minimum allowed.
      2.   No curbing is required if the subdivision is zoned R-1 (Residential
Estates) and all lots contain one and one-half (1.5) acres or more with a
minimum of two hundred ten (210) feet of road frontage per lot.
      3.   The asphalt surface shall be one-fourth (¼) inch above edge of
concrete gutter. Gutter May be reduced to five and three-fourths (5¾) inches to
accommodate this requirement.
      4.   Minimum three (3) feet of sod shall be installed behind curb.
      5.   UE/DE shall encompass the one hundred (100) year storm (ten (10)
feet minimum).
      6.   Roadside ditches shall have full sod.
(Code 1991, § 12-475; Ord. No. 16-04, § I(Exh. A), 8-1-2016)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 94-212 Bridges And Culverts
   A.   Bridges of primary benefit to the developer, as determined by the
Planning Commission, shall be constructed at the full expense of the developer
without reimbursement from the City or County government. The sharing of
expense for the construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the
developer, as determined by the Planning Commission, will be fixed by special
agreement between the City or County government and the developer. The cost
shall be charged to the developer pro rata as the percentage of his land
developed and so served.
   B.   Bridges or culverts shall be provided where watercourses cross
continuous streets or alleys and shall be sized and constructed to accommodate
the one hundred (100) year frequency rain, based on the drainage area involved.
   C.   Design of bridges and culverts shall conform to the City or County
construction specifications.
(Code 1991, § 12-476)
Sec 94-213 Street And Regulatory Signs
   A.   Street name signs shall be placed at all intersections within or
abutting the subdivision by the developer. All such signs shall be approved as
to type and location by the Planning Commission and the City Manager.
   B.   The developer shall deposit with the City Clerk, at the time of
approval of the final plat for the subdivision, a sum established by City
Council resolution for each regulatory sign required by the City Manager at
road intersections. The City shall then cause installation of all such required
regulatory signs within the subdivision.
(Code 1991, § 12-477)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 94-214 Street Lights
Provisions shall be made by the developer for adequate lighting of public
streets within the proposed subdivision, in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the City.
(Code 1991, § 12-478)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 94-215 Pedestrian Ways
   A.   Submission of plan. The developer of any subdivision, whether
residential or nonresidential in character, shall submit a plan for a system of
pedestrian ways or walkways to the Planning Commission at the time of
preliminary plat submission.
   B.   Delineation of system and provision for focal point approaches and
circulation. Such pedestrian way plan shall delineate the provision of adequate
pedestrian ways within any subdivision or portion thereof, with consideration
given to walkway connections in areas adjacent to or outside of the
subdivision. Pedestrian approaches to such focal points as school sites,
recreation areas, and parks shall be provided for in addition to pedestrian
ways for normal circulation.
   C.   Provision for future connections. The Planning Commission, after
reviewing the plan, may require that any or all of the pedestrian ways
indicated in the plan be constructed and suitably surfaced to connect with
existing or future walkways in the area and provide for adequate pedestrian
circulation.
   D.   Design and location. Pedestrian ways shall be designed and located in
accordance with the provisions in Section 94-176 and the following provisions:
      1.   Minimum paving section, where sidewalks are required, shall be four
(4) feet in width;
      2.   Pedestrian ways shall be located within the dedicated, non-pavement
right-of-way of all roads;
      3.   Concrete curbs shall be required for all roads where pedestrian ways
are required by the Planning Commission; and
      4.   A median strip of grassed or landscaped area, at least two (2) feet
wide, shall separate all pedestrian ways from adjacent curbs.
   E.   Curb ramps. Pedestrian way design and construction shall be in
compliance with ODOT standards and specifications for curb ramps for the
physically impaired.
(Code 1991, § 12-479)
Sec 94-216 Bikeways
The following provisions apply to bikeways within subdivisions regulated by
this chapter:
   A.   Bikeways shall be classified as follows:
      1.   Class I is a completely separated right-of-way designated for the
exclusive use of bicycles;
      2.   Class II is a restricted right-of-way designated for the exclusive
or semi-exclusive use of bicycles with through travel by motor vehicles not
allowed; or
      3.   Class III is a shared right-of-way designated as such by signs
placed in posts or on the pavement.
   B.   The Planning Commission may require, at the time of submission of the
sketch plat, that the developer prepare a plan for the design and construction
of a system of bikeways within the proposed subdivision.
   C.   In requiring such a system, the Planning Commission shall not allow the
use of Class III bikeways.
   D.   A proposed bikeway plan may be required by the Planning Commission when
there are existing natural or manmade features which would effectively
complement or provide linkage or routes for such bikeways, in particular park
areas and school sites.
   E.   Minimum design width for Class I bikeways shall depend on the number of
lanes, with each line requiring a minimum of four (4) feet of bikeway width.
   F.   Where Class I bikeways are required, bikeway surfaces shall be of
asphalt.
   G.   Additional considerations for bikeway construction shall include:
      1.   Physical barriers between automobile traffic and bicycle lanes are
safer than painted lines;
      2.   Bicycle lanes at major intersections should shift away from the
roadway rather than merge directly onto the road, whenever possible; and
      3.   Adequate provisions should be made for drainage without creating
safety hazards for bicyclists due to drainage grates.
   H.   Additional specific criteria, as may be established by the Planning
Commission, shall be considered when bikeways are required or proposed.
(Code 1991, § 12-480)
Sec 94-217 Landscaping And Natural Features
   A.   Preservation of features generally. Existing natural features which
would add value to residential development, such as trees, watercourses, etc.,
shall be considered for preservation in the design of the subdivision. No trees
shall be removed from any proposed subdivision nor any change of grade of the
land made until the Planning Commission and the City Council have both approved
the preliminary plat.
   B.   Preserved trees noted on sketch plan. All trees, etc., to be preserved
shall be shown on the preliminary sketch plan.
   C.   Protection of trees. All trees, where required, shall be welled and
protected against change of grade.
   D.   Review and approval of new trees. New trees or landscaping to be
provided by the developer shall be subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission, in accordance with the City's beautification policies and
plans.
   E.   Park, open space, and natural feature applications. Applicable
provisions of
Chapter 122 of the City's Code of Ordinances, as well as Section
94-179, shall be considered.
(Code 1991, § 12-481)
Cross reference- Vegetation, Ch.
114.
DIVISION 94-4-2 WATER AND SEWERAGE IMPROVEMENTS
   
94-241   Water System
   
94-242   Sewage Collection And Disposal Systems
   
94-243   Design Criteria For Sanitary Sewers
   
94-244   Design Factors
   
94-245   Maximum Size
   
94-246   Minimum Size
   
94-247   Velocity Of Flow
   
94-248   Alignment
   
94-249   Manholes
   
94-250   Sewerage Locations
   
94-251   Water Supply Interconnections
   
94-252   Relation Of Sewers To Water Mains
Cross reference- Utilities, Ch.
110.
Sec 94-241 Water System
   A.   Installation in accordance with standards and specifications. The
developer shall install water lines and fire hydrants in accordance with the
standards and specifications of these and other applicable regulations. In no
case shall the use of flexible PVC pipe be permitted.
   B.   Provision of adequate supply. Action shall be taken by the developer to
extend or create a water supply district for the purpose of providing a water
supply system capable of providing domestic water use and fire protection. This
system shall provide an adequate supply of potable water to every lot in the
subdivision.
   C.   Fire hydrant installation. Fire hydrants shall be required for all
subdivisions except those approved for low-density zoning districts in which
individual wells are to be used. Fire hydrants shall be located no more than
six hundred (600) feet apart and within five hundred (500) feet of any
structure and shall be approved by the City Manager. To eliminate future street
openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire
hydrants themselves, and all other supply improvements shall be installed
before any final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat.
   D.   Installation where public water already accessible. Where a public
water main is accessible, the developer shall install adequate water
facilities, including fire hydrants, subject to the specifications of State or
City requirements. All water mains shall be at least six (6) inches in
diameter.
   E.   Approval of extensions. Water main extensions shall be approved by the
appropriate government agencies.
   F.   Inclusion of location on preliminary plat and cost in bond. To
facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants, all water supply
improvements, and the boundary lines of proposed districts, indicating all
improvements proposed to be served, shall be shown on the preliminary plat and
the cost of installing the same shall be included in the performance bond to be
furnished by the developer.
   G.   Water systems for low-density districts. In subdivisions approved by
the Planning Commission for low-density zoning districts, if a public water
system is not available, individual wells may be used or a central water system
provided in such a manner that an adequate supply of potable water will be
available to every lot in the subdivision. Water samples shall be submitted to
the State Health Department for its approval, and individual wells and central
water systems shall be approved by the State Health Department.
   H.   Arrangement for public water connections. If the Planning Commission
requires that a connection to a public water main be eventually provided as a
condition to approval of an individual well or central water system, the
applicant shall make arrangements including the provision of necessary
easements for future water service at the time the plat receives final
approval. Performance or cash bonds may be required to ensure compliance.
(Code 1991, § 12-482)
Sec 94-242 Sewage Collection And Disposal Systems
   A.   Use of sanitary sewers. In accordance with the standards and
specifications of these and other applicable regulations, the subdivider shall
install sanitary sewers whenever a sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible, as
determined by the Planning Commission. If a public sanitary sewer is placed in
a street or alley abutting any property, the owner thereof shall be required to
connect to the sewer for the purpose of disposing of waste, and it shall be
unlawful for any such owner or occupant to maintain upon any such property an
individual sewage disposal system.
   B.   Use of septic tanks, etc. Whenever a sanitary sewer is not reasonably
accessible, septic tanks or other unit disposal systems may be used, provided
that such systems comply with the requirements of the State Department of
Health and are not located within twenty (20) feet of the lot line of the lot
on which the system is located. Where sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably
accessible and will not become available for a period in excess of five (5)
years, the applicant may install sewage systems as follows:
      1.   Medium-density residential districts. A central sewage system only;
no individual disposal system will be permitted. Where plans exist for a public
sewer system to be built, for a period in excess of five (5) years, the
applicant shall install all sewer lines, lateral, and mains to be in permanent
conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such public sewer main;
and
      2.   Low-density residential districts. Individual disposal systems or
central sewage systems may be used.
   C.   Design and approval of sewer improvements. All sanitary sewer
improvements shall be designed by an engineer registered in the State and shall
be approved by the City Council, the City Manager, the State Health Department,
and other appropriate agencies. Sanitary sewer design shall be in accordance
with the design criteria for sanitary sewers in this article. In no case shall
the use of flexible PVC pipe or any rigid plastic pipe with a wall thickness
and strength of less than ABA Standard Schedule 40 be allowed.
   D.   Correspondence with comprehensive plan. When a required or proposed
improvement corresponds with a recommended improvement contained in the City's
comprehensive plan, or other approved sanitary sewer report or document, the
facility shall be designed in accordance with the plan or report.
   E.   City participation in excess cost. When an improvement required by the
comprehensive plan or other approved sanitary sewer report or document exceeds
the capacity needed to serve the proposed development, the City may participate
in the excess cost of such facility in accordance with the City's utility
extension policies.
   F.   System in low-and medium-density residential districts. In low-and
medium- density residential districts, where a public sanitary sewage system is
reasonably accessible but will become available within a reasonable time, not
to exceed five (5) years, the developer may choose one (1) of the following
alternatives:
      1.   Central sewage system. Maintenance cost to be assessed against each
property benefitted. Where plans for future public sanitary sewage systems
exist, the developer shall install the sewer lines, laterals, and mains to be
in permanent conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such
public sewer mains; or
      2.   Individual disposal systems. The developer shall install sanitary
sewer lines, laterals, and mains from the street curb to a point in the
subdivision boundary where a future connection with the public sewer main shall
be made in addition to allowing the use of individual systems on each site. As
a condition of building permit approval on each housing unit in such an area,
sewer lines shall be laid from the house to the street line and a connection
shall be available in the home to connect from the individual disposal system
to the sewer system when the public sewers become available. Such sewer systems
shall be capped until ready for use and shall conform to all plans for
installation of the public sewer system, where such exists, and shall be ready
for connection to such public sewer main.
   G.   Systems in high-density residential and nonresidential districts.
Sewage collection and disposal systems in high-density residential and
nonresidential districts shall connect with public sanitary sewage systems.
Sewers shall be installed to serve each lot and to grades and sizes required by
local officials and approving agencies. No individual disposal system or
treatment plants or private or group disposal systems shall be permitted.
Sanitary sewage facilities, including the installation of laterals in the
right-of-way, shall be subject to the specifications, rules, regulations, and
guidelines of the City and the State Health Department.
   H.   Individual disposal systems. If public sewer facilities are not
available and individual disposal systems are proposed, minimum lot areas shall
conform to the requirements of the zoning regulations, and percolation tests
and test holes shall be made as directed by the City Building Official and the
results submitted to the Health Department. The individual disposal system,
including the size of the septic tanks and size of the tile fields or other
secondary treatment devices, shall also be approved by the City Building
Official and be in accordance with the State statutes.
(Code 1991, § 12-483)
Sec 94-243 Design Criteria For Sanitary Sewers
These design criteria are not intended to cover extraordinary situations.
Deviations will be allowed and may be required in those instances where
considered justified by the local government engineer.
(Code 1991, § 12-484)
Sec 94-244 Design Factors
Sanitary sewer systems should be designed for the ultimate tributary
population. Due consideration should be given to current zoning regulations and
approved planning and zoning reports where applicable. Sewer capacities should
be adequate to handle the anticipated maximum hourly quantity of sewerage and
industrial waste, together with an adequate allowance for infiltration and
other extraneous flow.
(Code 1991, § 12-485)
Sec 94-245 Maximum Size
The diameter of sewers proposed shall not exceed the diameter of the existing
or proposed outlet, whichever is applicable, unless otherwise approved by the
local government engineer.
(Code 1991, § 12-486)
Sec 94-246 Minimum Size
No public sewer shall be less than eight (8) inches in diameter, except that
the use of a six (6) inch diameter sewer may be permitted in situations where
it cannot be extended and no more than four hundred (400) feet will be
installed in anyone place.
(Code 1991, § 12-487)
Sec 94-247 Velocity Of Flow
All sewers shall be designed and constructed with hydraulic slopes sufficient
to give mean velocities, when flowing full, of not less than two (2) feet per
second, based on Kutter's or Manning's formula, using an "n" value of 0.013.
Use of other practical "n" values will be approved for the longer pipe sections
if deemed justifiable on the basis of research or field data presented. The
following are the minimum slopes which should be provided, especially where the
depth of flow may be small, and are desirable minima in all parts of the
system:
Minimum Slopes for Sewer Sizes
Sewer Size (inches) Minimum Slope in Feet per 100 feet
Minimum Slopes for Sewer Sizes
Sewer Size (inches) Minimum Slope in Feet per 100 feet
8                   0.40
10                  0.20
12                  0.22
14                  0.17
15                  0.15
16                  0.14
18                  0.12
21                  0.10
24                  0.08
 
Under special conditions, if full and justifiable reasons are given, slopes
slightly less than those required for the two (2) foot per second velocity when
full may be permitted. Such decreased slopes will only be considered where the
depth of flow will be three- tenths (0.3) of the diameter or greater for design
average flow. Whenever such decreased slopes are selected, the engineer must
furnish with his report his computations of the depths of low in such pipes at
minimum, average, and peak rates of flow. It is recognized that such flatter
grades may cause additional sewer maintenance expense and odor nuisance. The
selection of the size of pipe shall be determined on the basis of the most
desirable flow characteristics obtainable.
(Code 1991, § 12-488)
Sec 94-248 Alignment
All sewers shall be laid with straight alignment between manholes, unless
otherwise directed or approved by the local government engineer.
(Code 1991, § 12-489)
Sec 94-249 Manholes
   A.   Manholes shall be installed:
      1.   At the end of each line;
      2.   At all changes in grade, size, or alignment;
      3.   At all intersections; and
      4.   At distances not greater than four hundred (400) feet for sewers
fifteen (15) inches and smaller and five hundred (500) feet for eighteen (18)
inches in diameter and larger.
   B.   The difference in elevation between an incoming sewer and the manhole
invert shall not exceed twelve (12) inches, except where required to match
crowns. The use of drop manholes will require approval by the local government
engineer. The minimum inside diameter of the manholes shall conform to those
specified by the local government engineer. Inside drop manholes will require
special considerations; however, in no case shall the minimum clear distance be
less than that indicated above. When a smaller sewer joins a larger one, the
crown of the smaller sewer shall not be lower than that of the larger one. The
minimum drop through manholes shall be two tenths (0.2) feet.
(Code 1991, §§ 12-490, 12-491)
Sec 94-250 Sewerage Locations
Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or alley rights-of-way, unless
topography dictates otherwise. When located in easements on private property,
access shall be to all manholes. A manhole shall be provided at each street or
alley crossing. End lines shall be extended to provide access from street or
alley rights-of-way where possible. Imposed loading shall be considered in all
locations. Not less than six (6) feet of cover shall be provided over the top
of the pipe in street and alley rights-of-way or three (3) feet in all other
areas.
(Code 1991, § 12-492)
Sec 94-251 Water Supply Interconnections
There shall be no physical connection between a public or private potable water
supply system and a sewer which will permit the passage of any sewage or
polluted water into the potable supply. Sewers shall be kept removed from water
supply wells and other water supply sources and structures.
(Code 1991, § 12-493)
Sec 94-252 Relation Of Sewers To Water Mains
A minimum horizontal distance of ten (10) feet shall be maintained between
parallel water and sewer lines. At points where sewers cross water mains, the
sewer shall be constructed of cast iron pipe or encased in concrete for a
distance of ten (10) feet in each direction from the crossing, measured
perpendicular to the water line. This will not be required when the water main
is at least two (2) feet above the sewer.
(Code 1991, § 12-494)
DIVISION 94-4-3 DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
   
94-276   Storm Drainage And Flood Hazard Areas
   
94-277   Responsibility For Drainage
   
94-278   Flood Hazard Areas Designated
   
94-279   Areas Not Designated Floodway; Drainage Assessment
   
94-280   Flowage Easements
   
94-281   Floodway-Fringe Areas
   
94-282   Runoff
   
94-283   Tributary And Surface Drainage Channels
   
94-284   Storm Sewers
   
94-285   Drainage Channel Location
   
94-286   Site Grading
   
94-287   Surface Water Collection
   
94-288   Drainage Easement Widths
   
94-289   Closed Storm Sewer Construction Requirement
   
94-290   Bridges Or Culverts; Size
   
94-291   Open Paved Storm Drainage Channels; Specifications
   
94-292   Improvements, Drainage Easements, Agreements Beyond Boundaries
   
94-293   Property Owner Agreements
   
94-294   Retention Reservoirs
Cross reference- Utilities, Ch.
110.
Sec 94-276 Storm Drainage And Flood Hazard Areas
   A.   All subdivisions of land shall comply with the design and improvement
requirements established in this division for the protection of flood hazard
areas and the prevention of erosion.
   B.   For the purposes of these regulations, drainage shall be classified as
follows:
      1.   Major tributary. Any channel having a drainage basin of not less
than one (1) square mile or greater than twenty-five (25) square miles.
      2.   Minor tributary. Any drainage channel having a drainage basin of six
hundred forty (640) acres (one (1) square mile) or less in area.
      3.   River. Any channel having a drainage basin of greater than twenty-
five (25) square miles.
      4.   Surface drainage. The runoff of such a limited quantity or slow rate
that it does not cause erosion of a defined channel.
(Code 1991, § 12-495)
Sec 94-277 Responsibility For Drainage
Responsibility for drainage shall be allocated as follows, unless otherwise
specifically designated:
   A.   The developer of a subdivision is responsible for the following:
      1.   All surface drainage on the subdivision;
      2.   All increase in surface drainage outside the subdivision which
results from the development of the subdivision;
      3.   The improvement of all minor tributaries lying within the
subdivision;
      4.   Any significant increase in the rate or quantity of runoff in any
minor or major tributary or river which results from the development of the
subdivision; and
      5.   Provision for the maintenance of all floodway and floodway-fringe
areas of major tributaries and rivers which have not been dedicated to the
public.
   B.   The City and other levels of government will be responsible for the
following:
      1.   The improvement of floodways of major tributaries;
      2.   The improvement of river floodways; and
      3.   The maintenance of floodway and floodway-fringe areas dedicated to
the public.
(Code 1991, § 12-496)
Sec 94-278 Flood Hazard Areas Designated
Flood hazard areas are designated on the official zoning district map of the
City. The boundaries of all floodway and floodway-fringe areas shall be
designated on the preliminary and final plats and shall be clearly marked.
(Code 1991, § 12-497)
Sec 94-279 Areas Not Designated Floodway; Drainage Assessment
For all areas not otherwise designated in a floodway or floodway-fringe area,
the developer shall be responsible for having an engineer, registered in the
State, prepare a drainage assessment of all of the area of the proposed
subdivision and all areas affected by runoff resulting from development of the
proposed subdivision in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   The one hundred (100) year maximum flood shall be used as the basis for
the sizing of all drainage channels, bridges, and other structures, unless
otherwise specified in this section;
   B.   The calculation of all runoff shall be based on saturated urbanization
of the drainage basin for minor tributaries and surface drainage, as reflected
in the comprehensive plan, and shall be based on the maximum degree of
urbanization, as reflected in the comprehensive plan, for the drainage basin of
a major tributary or river; and
   C.   The calculation of stream flow and runoff characteristics of the
subdivision shall be carried out in consultation with the City Engineer, and
the methodology and formulas used shall result in quantities which would be not
less than those derived from the application of the following formulas and
values:
      1.   Runoff from all drainage areas shall be not less than that
determined by the Rational Formula:
         Q = AIR
         Q   Cubic feet per second.
         A   Area to be drained, in acres, determined by field surveys for
areas less than six hundred forty (640) acres and by latest government
quadrangle maps for larger areas.
         I   Percent of imperviousness of the area. This may vary between forty
percent (40%) and ninety-five percent (95%), but no value of less than fifty
percent (50%) may be used for saturated urban development.
         R   Rate of rainfall over entire drainage area in inches per hour,
based on time of concentration and latest government records for the area.
      2.   The size of closed storm sewers, open channels, culverts, and
bridges shall be not less than that determined by using the Manning Formula:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bb94bc9cc859147e0d32dc029dacb8cc44325129/
IMAGES/0-0-0-24.jpg]
         Q   Discharge in cubic feet per second.
         A   Cross-sectional area of water in conduit in square feet.
         r   Hydraulic radius of water in conduit.
         s   Mean slope of hydraulic gradient in feet of vertical rise per foot
of horizontal distance.
         n   Roughness coefficient, based on condition and type of material of
conduit lining, but not less than 0.013.
(Code 1991, § 12-498)
Sec 94-280 Flowage Easements
All floodways located within the subdivision shall be designated by the
developer as "flowage easements" and shall be maintained as permanent open
space for private recreation or agriculture for which no buildings or
structures are required or dedicated to the public for drainage, recreation,
and utility use.
(Code 1991, § 12-499)
Sec 94-281 Floodway-Fringe Areas
All floodway-fringe areas shall be planned for uses which are permitted in the
F2, floodway fringe district of the zoning regulations, and in no case shall
the proposed use or construction cause a displacement of floodwater in the
floodway fringe that will increase flooding in other areas of the flood way or
floodway-fringe.
(Code 1991, § 12-500)
Sec 94-282 Runoff
When it is determined by the City Engineer that the development of the
subdivision will significantly increase runoff in the flood hazard area or will
otherwise adversely affect stormwater runoff, the Planning Commission may
require any or all of the following to the extent needed to reduce the adverse
effects of the development:
   A.   The existing floodway lying within or immediately adjacent to the
subdivision shall be cleaned to provide for the free flow of water, and the
channel shall be straightened, widened, and improved to the extent required to
prevent overflow beyond the limits of the floodway;
   B.   Site improvement shall provide for the grading of all building sites
and streets to an elevation where all lots, building areas, and streets will
not be subject to overflow and in a manner that will provide for the rapid
runoff of all rainfall; however, such improvements shall be carried out in a
manner that will preserve and protect large trees and attractive physical
features of the area;
   C.   Whenever channel improvement is carried out, sodding, back sloping,
cribbing, and other bank protection shall be designed and constructed to
control erosion for all the anticipated conditions of flow for the segment of
channel involved;
   D.   A drainage channel shall not be located in a street easement, unless it
is placed in an enclosed storm sewer, or unless a paved street surface is
provided on both sides of a paved channel to give access to abutting
properties; or
   E.   Culverts, bridges, and other drainage structures shall be constructed
in accordance with the specifications of the City at all locations where
drainage channels intersect with continuous streets or alleys.
(Code 1991, § 12-501)
Sec 94-283 Tributary And Surface Drainage Channels
All minor tributary and surface drainage channels located within the
subdivision shall be improved in accordance with the standards set forth in the
"Improved Drainage Channel" charts in Section 94-290, or other equivalent
standards, as determined by the City Engineer. Sections on Chart No. 4 shall be
used only for channels of minor tributaries which drain less than eighty (80)
acres and which are designed as an integral part of the landscape of the area,
so that maintenance of sodded slopes will be the responsibility of the property
owners abutting the channel. All channels shall be designed to carry a one
hundred (100) year maximum flood, shall be designed for self-cleaning and ease
of maintenance, shall have sufficient hard surface along the flow line to
prevent ponding of water, and shall have design characteristics of alignment,
materials, or construction and cross-sectioned elements that will be
hydraulically efficient and visually harmonious with the adjacent landscape.
(Code 1991, § 12-502)
Sec 94-284 Storm Sewers
Enclosed storm sewers may be required by the City Manager where special or
unusual conditions make open channels hazardous or otherwise unfeasible.
(Code 1991, § 12-503)
Sec 94-285 Drainage Channel Location
A drainage channel shall not be located in a street easement unless it is
placed in a closed storm sewer or unless a paved street surface is located on
both sides of a paved drainage channel to give access to abutting properties.
(Code 1991, § 12-504)
Sec 94-286 Site Grading
Site grading shall be carried out in such a manner that surface water from each
lot shall flow directly to a storm sewer, improved channel, or paved street
without crossing more than two (2) adjacent lots.
(Code 1991, § 12-505)
Sec 94-287 Surface Water Collection
Surface water collected on streets shall be diverted to storm drains at
satisfactory intervals to prevent overflow of six (6) inch high curbs during a
fifty (50) year frequency rain for the area and grades involved; provided,
however, that in no case shall the drainage area served by one (1) street
exceed twenty (20) acres, regardless of the amount of flow.
(Code 1991, § 12-506)
Sec 94-288 Drainage Easement Widths
Drainage easements of satisfactory width to provide working room for
construction and maintenance shall be provided for all storm sewers. In no case
shall the total easement be less than twenty (20) feet.
(Code 1991, § 12-507)
Sec 94-289 Closed Storm Sewer Construction Requirement
Closed storm sewers shall be constructed of precast or prefabricated pipe or
built in place of closed box design to conform with City construction
specifications to serve a one hundred (100) year frequency rain for the
drainage area involved.
(Code 1991, § 12-508)
Sec 94-290 Bridges Or Culverts; Size
Bridges or culverts shall be provided where watercourses cross continuous
streets or alleys, shall be sized to accommodate a one hundred (100) year
frequency rain, based on the drainage area involved, and shall be designed in
conformance with City construction specifications.
(Code 1991, § 12-509)
Sec 94-291 Open Paved Storm Drainage Channels; Specifications
Open paved storm drainage channels shall be constructed in accordance with City
construction specifications. Side slopes above the paved section shall be
shaped and sodded on a slope of four (4) horizontal to one (1) vertical or
flatter. Fences shall be outside of the one hundred (100) year frequency
flooding line, shall not be erected below the shoulder of the sodded section,
and in no case shall fences be closer than six (6) feet, measured horizontally,
to the edge of the paved section, except on Chart No. 2 sections. Hand-laid
riprap may be substituted for sodded shoulders where desired.
(Code 1991, § 12-510)
Sec 94-292 Improvements, Drainage Easements, Agreements Beyond Boundaries
The City reserves the right to require improvements, the provision of drainage
easements, and the provision of agreements beyond the boundaries of the
subdivision to facilitate flow of water through the addition, to avoid
probability of lawsuits based on damage from changed runoff in the subdivision,
and to provide continuous improvement of the overall storm drainage system.
   The following kinds of improvements may be required:
   A.   Enlargement or replacement of undersized drainage structures to provide
free flow;
   B.   Removal of obstructions;
   C.   Straightening of channel;
   D.   Widening or deepening of the channel;
   E.   Construction of erosion control structures;
   F.   Back sloping, sodding, or riprapping of bank; or
   G.   Construction of closed or open, paved storm sewers for the purposes of
closing gaps or continuation of the overall storm sewer system.
(Code 1991, § 12-511)
Sec 94-293 Property Owner Agreements
Property owner agreements, where required, shall be designed to protect the
City from probable lawsuits for damage caused by changed runoff conditions.
(Code 1991, § 12-512)
Sec 94-294 Retention Reservoirs
When subdivision development will result in increased runoff beyond the
boundaries of the subdivision which cannot be accommodated through channel
improvements without causing downstream flooding, the Planning Commission may
require the construction of one (1) or more retention reservoirs on the
subdivision which will temporarily impound and discharge water from the
subdivision site at the rate and volume equivalent to the discharge from the
undeveloped subdivision site. The design shall be for a one hundred (100) year
frequency flood. Plans shall be approved by the City Engineer. The construction
and maintenance of retention reservoirs shall be the responsibility of the
developer.
(Code 1991, § 12-513)
ARTICLE 94-5 NEIGHBORHOOD PLANS PROGRAM
   
94-321   Purpose; Authority
   
94-322   Designation Of Neighborhoods
   
94-323   Preparation Of Plans
   
94-324   Adoption And Status Of Plans
   
94-325   Review Of Plats For Conformance
   
94-326   Amendment
   
94-327   Contents Of The Plan
Sec 94-321 Purpose; Authority
The neighborhood plans program of the City is established as an adjunct to, and
is intended to supplement, the City and regional subdivision regulations of the
City Planning Commission and the comprehensive plan for the City, established
under the authority granted in 11 O.S. § 43-103.
The specific goals of this program are to:
   A.   Guide the growth and development of the community in accordance with
the comprehensive plan and the adopted policies and regulations of the City;
   B.   Coordinate the development of adjacent parcels of land in order to
ensure a logical and orderly extension of streets and utilities;
   C.   Facilitate the provision of adequate public open spaces and parks in
accordance with the comprehensive plan and other functional plans of the City;
   D.   Identify the interests of various parties, including local governments,
school districts, utility companies, and local property owners, affected by the
development of land and to integrate these interests into development
proposals; and
   E.   Provide a design alternative by which the Planning Commission may judge
subdivision proposals in order to ensure compliance with the principles and
purposes of the subdivision regulations and the comprehensive plan.
(Code 1991, § 12-520)
Sec 94-322 Designation Of Neighborhoods
   A.   It is the responsibility of the Planning Commission to designate
neighborhood units for which neighborhood plans shall be prepared, as specified
in these regulations.
   B.   In designating these neighborhoods, due consideration shall be given to
the following factors:
      1.   The current and projected growth patterns of the community; and
      2.   The concepts of neighborhood planning as contained in the
comprehensive plan and these regulations.
(Code 1991, § 12-521)
Sec 94-323 Preparation Of Plans
   A.   Upon designation of the neighborhood unit, the Planning Commission
shall prepare a neighborhood plan for that area so designated. This plan shall
be prepared in accordance with the standards and procedures prescribed in this
article.
   B.   Prior to the initiation of a neighborhood plan, the Planning Commission
shall give notice by posting and legal notice in the local newspaper to all
affected property owners of the plan preparation process. Adequate opportunity
shall be given for input from the owners into the analysis of alternative
neighborhood designs.
(Code 1991, § 12-522)
Sec 94-324 Adoption And Status Of Plans
   A.   Upon the preparation of a neighborhood plan for a designated area, the
Planning Commission shall recommend that the City Council adopt the plan and
thereby officially make the plan a legal portion of these regulations by
reference.
   B.   The neighborhood plan shall be reproduced and included as an appendix
to the subdivision regulations of the City.
   C.   Upon adoption of a neighborhood plan, the plan shall be considered as a
legal part of the subdivision regulations for the City and shall have a status
equal to that of the comprehensive plan for the City.
   D.   It is intended that the neighborhood plans serve as a summary of, and
be in conformance with, the adopted standards and policies contained in the
comprehensive plan and the regulations governing the use and development of
land within the City.
(Code 1991, § 12-523)
Sec 94-325 Review Of Plats For Conformance
The neighborhood plan shall not be deemed a mandatory design standard for the
subdivision of a particular tract of land. The neighborhood plan shall serve as
a performance guide and shall be utilized as follows:
   A.   The proposed plat shall be reviewed and compared to the neighborhood
plan in order to ensure provision of:
      1.   Necessary utility extensions in appropriate locations;
      2.   Street extensions to existing or proposed streets; and
      3.   Open spaces and drainage ways in compliance with adopted regulations
and policies.
   B.   Where a proposed subdivision does not correspond with the neighborhood
plan, the Planning Commission may require the developer or the City staff to
indicate amendments to the neighborhood plan which will meet the design
principles of the neighborhood unit and accommodate the proposed subdivision.
   C.   Where the Planning Commission determines that the proposed subdivision
design is not compatible with the neighborhood plan and that amendments to the
plan are inappropriate, the Planning Commission may direct such revisions in
the subdivision design as are necessary to achieve the goals established by the
neighborhood plan.
(Code 1991, § 12-524)
Sec 94-326 Amendment
   A.   Neighborhood plans shall be reviewed and amended upon the motion of the
Planning Commission.
   B.   The amendment process shall follow the procedures outlined for initial
preparation of the neighborhood plan.
   C.   Whenever, after notice of hearing as required in the subdivision
regulations, a plat is approved which differs substantially from the
neighborhood plan, the Planning Commission may amend the neighborhood plan to
incorporate the plat. Such amendment shall not require further hearings or
notice.
(Code 1991, § 12-525)
Sec 94-327 Contents Of The Plan
   A.   A neighborhood plan, as provided for in these regulations, shall
consist of an alternative design for a defined neighborhood unit. This design
for the development of the neighborhood shall take into consideration all
relevant physical, social, governmental, and political factors which the
Planning Commission deems appropriate. It is intended that the following
factors, at a minimum, be considered in developing neighborhood plans:
      1.   Existing land ownership and development patterns;
      2.   Adopted land subdivision regulations, the comprehensive plan, and
functional plans for City water, sanitary sewer, parks, and storm drainage
facilities;
      3.   Physical features such as topography, geology, woodlands, and water
bodies;
      4.   Existing easements and undeveloped rights-of-way; and
      5.   Current and projected housing trends.
   B.   Neighborhood plans shall be prepared in a format which will clearly
depict existing neighborhood features and the recommended alternative
neighborhood design. The plan shall include appropriate street alignments, lot
patterns, major utilities, drainage ways, and public open spaces.
   C.   In preparing neighborhood plans, the Planning Commission shall give due
consideration to the following criteria:
      1.   The provisions of an adequate collector street system which will
discourage through traffic;
      2.   The provision of local streets which will optimize the number of
lots per linear foot of street;
      3.   The design of lots which shall minimize the need for joint
development efforts by separate land owners;
      4.   The provision of adequate parks and open spaces in accordance with
the comprehensive plan and the parks and recreation plan;
      5.   The provision of floodway and drainage easements in accordance with
delineated floodways and the drainage improvement standards of the City; and
      6.   The design of the neighborhood plan shall conform, as closely as
possible, to the principles of a neighborhood unit.
(Code 1991, § 12-526)
ARTICLE 94-6 WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS
   
94-351   Citation
   
94-352   References And Ownership
   
94-353   Purpose And Scope
   
94-354   Definitions
   
94-355   Extension Of Water Mains
   
94-356   Interpretation
Sec 94-351 Citation
This article and the sections included in this article shall be known as "the
Purcell water main extension ordinance" and shall be cited as
Chapter 94 (Subdivisions), Article 6 (Water Main Extensions).
(Ord. No. 14-06, § 1, 5-5-2014)
Sec 94-352 References And Ownership
In this article the City of Purcell will be referred to as the "City," the
Purcell Public Works Authority will be referred to as the "authority" and the
City and authority collectively will be referred to as "Purcell." The City owns
the water distribution system and the authority leases it from the City.
(Ord. No. 14-06, § 3(1), 5-5-2014)
Sec 94-353 Purpose And Scope
It is the intent of this document to provide a uniform and comprehensive water
main extension policy for the City in regard to approach mains; to provide for
the equitable distribution of the costs of water main improvements between
Purcell and developers as herein defined; to revise the method of financing the
costs of approach mains; to provide for the collection of connection fees for
the purpose of recovering investments made by Purcell and the developers for
water main improvements; to provide adequate funds for the repair and
maintenance of the existing and hereafter acquired water distribution systems
of the City; to establish a method for coordination of a water main extension
policy with availability of other public services provided by the City; and to
protect the general health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the City.
(Ord. No. 14-06, § 3(2), 5-5-2014)
Sec 94-354 Definitions
As used herein the following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth
below:
   A.   Developer shall mean any person requiring the extension of water
service to provide water to a proposed or existing development or subdivision,
whether platted or unplatted.
   B.   Approach main shall mean any main that is an off-site grid main that is
required to connect a development or subdivision to a source or sources of
ample water supply from Purcell in accordance with the policies and procedures
of Purcell as they now exist and as they may be modified from time to time in
the future.
   C.   Internal main shall mean any water main that is situated within a
development to provide water service, circulation, and fire protection to
customers, residents, or users located within the boundaries of the development
or subdivision.
   D.   Extension shall mean connecting an approach main and its internal mains
to an existing City grid main.
   E.   Grid main shall mean a water main extended in accordance with criteria
adopted and approved by Purcell from time to time.
   F.   Connection fee shall mean a charge for the privilege of connecting to a
main or an approach main, subject to reimbursement as specified in this article
which may be modified from time to time.
(Ord. No. 14-06, § 4, 5-5-2014)
Sec 94-355 Extension Of Water Mains
   A.   Written application for water main extension. Prior to beginning any
work in regard to the extension of water mains, the property owner, developer,
or others desiring the approach main shall apply in writing for such extension
with Purcell.
   B.   Ownership of new main extensions. All new main extensions and
appurtenances that are to be connected to and served by the City's existing
water distribution system shall become the property of the City upon completion
and acceptance by the City. The applicant shall convey such main extensions and
appurtenances to the City by quit claim deed, warranty deed, assignment, or
dedication along with any/or all respective easements and/or rights-of-way
obtained prior to connection with the City's existing water mains and in
addition the applicant shall furnish a one (1) year maintenance bond thereon to
run from the date of acceptance by the City. The type of conveyance shall be at
the option of the City. The applicant for the main extension shall have no
interest therein after the conveyance other than the right to receive service
therefrom and the contract rights reimbursement pursuant to the terms and
conditions outlined herein.
   C.   Acceptance of new main extensions. Before any newly constructed main is
connected to the City's existing water distribution system and final approval
and acceptance of the new main extension is made by the City, the applicant
shall furnish evidence satisfactory to the City that the cost of all materials,
labor, and equipment used to construct the new main extension has been paid.
After satisfactory evidence has been provided to the City that payment of all
construction expenses related to the main extension has been made and after
receipt by the City of the conveyance(s) described in subsection (B) above, the
City will accept the new main extension into its water distribution system from
the point of connection to the existing system to and including the water meter
(s) and thereafter be responsible for maintenance and upkeep.
   D.   All customers shall conform to City regulations. All customers
obtaining water service from the City water distribution system shall conform
to all rules, regulations, ordinances, rates, conditions of service, and
practices now prevailing or which may be established by Purcell in the future.
   E.   No water mains until on-site sewerage systems are assured. Water mains
shall not be extended to any user until provisions have been made for on-site
sanitary sewerage facilities to serve the user, and the construction of an
approved system is assured, except where water is to be used for agricultural
or other purposes that do not result in the production of objectionable waste.
The approval shall be by the Department of Environmental Quality. Purcell shall
not have any obligation or responsibility to inspect or approve sanitary
sewerage facilities.
   F.   Water facilities constructed to Purcell standards. All water mains,
valves, fire hydrants, service connections to the property line, meters, and
appurtenances shall be constructed in accordance with Purcell specifications.
   G.   Cost of mains. All approach mains and internal mains and/or respective
easements and/or rights-of-way will be constructed/obtained at the expense of
the person or persons desiring service which may be either the property owner,
developer, or others desiring distribution main installations; provided, that
with the approval of Purcell, the City may extend any grid main which is
determined to be feasible and in accordance with existing or future policies of
Purcell. Provided further that if the City requires an approach main or
boundary main of a diameter greater than what is necessary to provide adequate
water service to the proposed development, the City may pay the cost in excess
of the cost for the approach main proposed by the developer based upon the
actual bid prices compared to costs as calculated by the City for the greater-
sized main.
   H.   Approach mains, recovery of costs. When an approach main is installed
by a developer to serve a subdivision, and such main is located along a section
line right-of-way, and said main abuts intervening property, the developer
shall be entitled to recover a part of the costs of said approach or boundary
main from the owners of the property connecting to such main prior to such
properties obtaining service from the main in accordance with the connection
fee outlined below. Where such mains are constructed by the City, or at the
request of the City for a greater size main, the City shall be entitled to a
similar or a proportion of the reimbursement, respectively, at a rate to be
established in accordance with the connection fee then in force and effect.
   I.   Water tap fee. All taps that are required to be made to the City's
existing water system to serve new mains that have been constructed by
applicant shall be made by the applicant or applicant's contractor. The water
tap fee shall be in addition to the connection fee and will be based on City
tap fees as they exist at the time of connection which may be modified by the
City from time to time. Regardless, such taps shall be made at the expense of
the applicant. All connections to the taps shall be made by the contractor at
applicant's expense under the supervision of the City. The sterilization shall
be performed by applicant or applicant's contractor when authorized by the City
and shall comply with standards approved by Purcell. The applicant's
responsibilities include prevention of contamination, preliminary flushing, and
provisions for adequate drainage. The applicant's cost shall include payment
for water, chemicals, or other materials used in the sterilization process.
   J.   Connection fees.
      1.   Policy for application of connection fees. The policy of Purcell is
that property owners connecting to approach and internal mains shall
participate in the cost of water main extensions which serve their property
prior to obtaining any water service from such mains.
      2.   Basis for connection fee. The amount of connection fee shall be set
by Purcell by resolution based upon agreement between Purcell and each
developer.
      3.   Records. Purcell shall maintain records of all mains where
connection fees are applicable and shall collect such fees prior to allowing
taps on such mains.
      4.   Time period limitation. The developer who has borne the cost of
installing approach and internal water mains shall be entitled to reimbursement
from the connection fees actually collected by the City for a period of ten
(10) years from the date that such main extensions are approved by the Oklahoma
Department of Environmental Quality or until developer has been reimbursed all
costs associated with the water main extension, whichever occurs first. Purcell
will be entitled to all fees after the ten (10) years or after developer has
been fully reimbursed. Where approved mains are constructed with Purcell funds,
the City and/or authority, respectively, will be entitled to reimbursement of
the connection fees, until the expenditures of the City and/or authority have
been recovered. Reimbursement for the developer's cost of construction of a
project shall only be pursuant to the receipt of the connection fees as set
forth herein.
      5.   No connection fee shall be charged for Purcell-owned fire hydrants
or connections to properties or facilities owned by the Purcell.
      6.   Ten percent (10%) of all connection fees collected by the Purcell
shall be retained by Purcell to defray administration costs.
      7.   The City Manager is hereby authorized to adopt rules, regulations
and forms consistent with this policy for administration of this policy.
(Ord. No. 14-06, § 5, 5-5-2014)
Sec 94-356 Interpretation
In the event of a conflict or any ambiguity in this policy, the coordinator
shall interpret this policy. The coordinator shall interpret this policy and
any provisions so as to meet the goals and intents expressed herein and in the
best interest of the City and the trust.
(Ord. No. 14-06, § 6, 5-5-2014)
CHAPTER 98 TAXATION
ARTICLE 98-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 98-2 UTILITIES TAX
ARTICLE 98-3 USE TAX
ARTICLE 98-4 LODGING TAX
Cross reference- Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the
payment of money for the City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
City or any evidence of the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation
assumed by the City saved from repeal, §
1-7(B); Ordinance Nos. 735, 934, 1001, 00-19, 09-07 and any other ordinances
consistent with this Code levying or imposing taxes or pertaining to tax rates
saved from repeal, §
1-7(G); administration, Ch.
2; finance, §
2-111 et seq.; business Ch.
18.
State Law reference- Tax exemption for new manufacturing establishments and
public utilities, 11 O.S. § 17-112; municipal taxation, 68 O.S. § 2701 et seq.;
tax ordinance to be approved by voters, 68 O.S. § 2706.
ARTICLE 98-1 IN GENERAL
   
98-1   Sales And Use Taxes
Sec 98-1 Sales And Use Taxes
   A.   The permanent rules of the State Tax Commission pertaining to the sales
and use tax, as codified in title 710, chapter 65, of the Oklahoma
Administrative Code (O.A.C. § 710:65-1-1 et seq.), promulgated through June 25,
2000, for the purpose of compliance with the Administrative Procedures Act (75
O.S. § 250 et seq.) and to facilitate the administration, enforcement, and
collection of taxes under the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code (68 O.S. § 1350 et seq.)
and the Oklahoma Use Tax Code (68 O.S. § 1401 et seq.), under the authority of
68 O.S. § 203, are adopted as a part of this section as if set out at length in
this section.
   B.   Under the authority of City of Purcell, the provisions of this division
shall become effective after May 1, 1981 by authority of Ordinance No. 1001
that an increase from Two Percent (2%) Excise Tax (Sales Tax) to Three percent
(3%) Excise Tax (Sales Tax) be in place. Additional revenues shall provide
revenues for making capital improvements to water, sanitary sewer and electric
system of the City of Purcell, Oklahoma paying the costs and expenses of
operation and maintenance thereof and the payment of the principal of and
interest on indebtedness incurred by the City of Purcell or any duly
constituted authority thereof for said purposes. The revenues of said
additional excise tax (sales tax) shall be used for those purposes and not
otherwise.
   C.   Under the authority of City of Purcell, the provisions of this division
shall be cited as the City of Purcell Hospital Sales Tax Ordinance of 2018 and
shall become effective on and after August 28, 2018. Said excise tax (sales
tax) levies an excise tax (sales tax) of one percent (1%) (in addition to any
and all other excises taxes now in force); by modification of termination to
December 31, 2039.
   D.   Under the authority of City of Purcell, the provisions of this division
shall become effective on and after August 28, 2018 subject to approval by a
majority of the qualified electors of the City voting on the same in the manner
prescribed by law. The one percent (1%) excise tax referenced herein shall
cease to be collected after September 30, 2040.
(Ordinance Nos. 735, 934, 00-19)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 1001 on 3/5/1981 Amended by Ord. 19-07 on 11/2/2009 Amended by
Ord. 16-03 on 4/25/2016 Amended by Ord. 18-05 on 6/4/2018 Amended by Ord. 18-04
on 6/4/2018
ARTICLE 98-2 UTILITIES TAX
   
98-26   Utility Tax Levied
   
98-27   Not To Apply To Franchises
   
98-28   Payment Of Tax
   
98-29   Failure To Pay Tax
   
98-30   Tax Constitutes Lien
   
98-31   Record Of Sales
Cross reference- Utilities, Ch.
110.
State Law reference- Municipal utility tax on gross receipts, 68 O.S. § 2601 et
seq., applicable to franchises, 68 O.S. § 2602.
Sec 98-26 Utility Tax Levied
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) upon the
gross receipt from residential and commercial sales of power, light, heat, gas,
electricity, or water within the City, which tax shall be in lieu of any other
franchise, license, occupation, or excise tax levied by the City, in accordance
with the provisions of 68 O.S. §§ 2601-2605, and other applicable provisions of
State law.
(Ord. No. 98-09, § 1, 4-6-1998)
Sec 98-27 Not To Apply To Franchises
The tax levied under this article shall apply to all persons, firms,
associations, or corporations engaged in the business of furnishing power,
light, heat, gas, electricity, or water within the City limits, except it shall
not apply to any person, firm, association, or corporation operating under a
valid franchise from the City granted pursuant to OK Const. Art. XVIII, § 5(a)
nor shall it apply to those entities exempt from taxation under applicable
provisions of State law.
(Ord. No. 98-09, § 2, 4-6-1998)
Sec 98-28 Payment Of Tax
The tax levied under this article shall be levied for a term of not less than
one (1) year and shall be payable quarterly on or prior to January 10, April
10, July 10, and October 10 of each year, as applicable, and the proceeds
thereof shall be placed in the general revenue fund of the City.
(Ord. No. 98-09, § 3, 4-6-1998)
Sec 98-29 Failure To Pay Tax
Any person, firm, association, or corporation failing or refusing to pay such
tax shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such City and, in
addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm,
association, corporation for the amount of the tax and all expenses of
collecting same, including reasonable attorney's fees.
(Ord. No. 98-09, § 4, 4-6-1998)
Sec 98-30 Tax Constitutes Lien
The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the City of the person, firm, association, or corporation
engaged in the business of selling utility services within the City limits.
(Ord. No. 98-09, § 5, 4-6-1998)
Sec 98-31 Record Of Sales
It shall be the duty of any person, firm, association, or corporation subject
to the tax levied under this article to keep and maintain records as to the
amount of gross receipts of sales of power, light, heat, gas, electricity, or
water within the City, and such records shall be subject to review and audit by
the City upon reasonable request. In addition, a summary of such sales for the
preceding calendar quarter, including the number of customers served, the
number of customers exempt from taxation under applicable State sales tax laws,
the number of units of gas, electricity, or water (cubic feet, kilowatt hours,
or gallons, respectively) sold to exempt and nonexempt customers, the gross
receipts from sales to exempt and nonexempt customers, and the amount of sales
tax charged and collected with respect to such sales, shall be provided to the
City at the time of payment of the tax pursuant to Section
98-28.
(Ord. No. 98-09, § 6, 4-6-1998)
ARTICLE 98-3 USE TAX
DIVISION 98-3-1 EXCISE TAX; INTANGIBLE, PERSONAL PROPERTY
DIVISION 98-3-2 CITY SALES TAX ORDINANCE OF 2016
Editor's note- Ord. No. 05-05, §§ 1-19, adopted September 6, 2005, did not
specify manner of inclusion; hence, inclusion as Article III, §§ 98-51-98-69,
was at the editor's discretion.
DIVISION 98-3-1 EXCISE TAX; INTANGIBLE, PERSONAL PROPERTY
   
98-51   Excise Tax On Storage, Use Or Other Consumption Of Intangible, Personal
Property Levied
   
98-52   Exemptions
   
98-53   Time When Due; Returns; Payment
   
98-54   Tax Constitutes Debt
   
98-55   Collection Of Tax: By Retailer Or Vendor
   
98-56   Collection Of Tax: By Retailer Or Vendor Not Maintaining A Place Of
Business Within State Or Both Within And Without State; Permits
   
98-57   Revoking Permits
   
98-58   Remunerative Deductions Allowed Vendors Or Retailers Of Other States
   
98-59   Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
   
98-60   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
   
98-61   Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
   
98-62   Fraudulent Returns
   
98-63   Records Confidential
   
98-64   Provisions Cumulative
   
98-65   Provisions Severable
   
98-66   Definitions
   
98-67   Tax Collector Defined
   
98-68   Classification Of Taxpayers
   
98-69   Purpose Of Revenues
Sec 98-51 Excise Tax On Storage, Use Or Other Consumption Of Intangible,
Personal Property Levied
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using,
or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible, personal property
purchased or brought into this municipality an excise tax on the storage, use
or other consumption within the municipality of such property equal to the
sales tax rate on the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid
by every person storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the municipality,
tangible personal property purchased or brought into the municipality. The
additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or
storage of the property within the municipality and shall be assessed to only
property purchased outside the State; provided that the tax levied herein shall
not be levied against tangible, personal property intended solely for use
outside the municipality, but which is stored in the municipality pending
shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily retained in the
municipality for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration,
maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the tax
authorized herein, may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the municipality had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 1, 9-6-2005; Ord. No. 16-03, 4-25-2016; Ord. No. 24-05, 6-3-
2024)
Sec 98-52 Exemptions
The provisions of this article shall not apply:
   A.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by a nonresidential individual visiting in this
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   B.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   C.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the State use tax
code and this article, has been paid by the person using such tangible,
personal property in the municipality, whether such tax was levied under the
laws of this State or some other state or municipality, of the United States.
If any article of tangible, personal property has already been subjected to a
tax by the State or any other state or municipality in respect to its sale or
use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the State use tax code and
the City use tax measured by the difference only between the rate provided by
both the State use tax code and this article, and the rate by which the
previous tax upon the sale or use was computed. Provided that no credit shall
be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality, if that state or
municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in the state and
municipality;
   D.   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons to the
operation of manufacturing plants already established in the municipality.
Provided this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is
incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing
property subject to taxation under the sales tax code of the municipality. The
term "manufacturing plants" shall mean those establishments primarily engaged
in manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
   E.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the municipality;
   F.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of this municipality where such personal property is for such individual's
personal use or enjoyment;
   G.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property used
or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads;
   H.   In respect to livestock purchased outside the State and brought into
this municipality for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 2, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-53 Time When Due; Returns; Payment
The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the State use tax under the use tax code of
the State.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 3, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-54 Tax Constitutes Debt
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 4, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-55 Collection Of Tax: By Retailer Or Vendor
Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and without
the State, and making sales of tangible, personal property from place of
business outside this State for use in this municipality shall at the time of
making such sales, collect the use tax levied by this article from the
purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefore in the manner and from
prescribed by the Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission shall, by regulation,
require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the Tax
Commission the name and address of all his agents operation in this
municipality and location of any and all distribution or sales houses or
offices or other places of business in this City.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 5, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-56 Collection Of Tax: By Retailer Or Vendor Not Maintaining A Place Of
Business Within State Or Both Within And Without State; Permits
The Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application authorize the
collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a
place of business within this State but who makes sales of tangible personal
property for use in this municipality and by the out-of-state place of business
of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the State and making sales of tangible personal property at such out-
of-state places of business for use in this municipality, Such retailer or
vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by the
Tax Commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements,
as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such
retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible, personal property sold
to his knowledge for use within this municipality. Such authority and permit
may be cancelled when at any time the Tax Commission considers that such tax
can more effectively be collected from the person using such property in this
municipality. Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are
made or completed by delivery to the purchaser within this municipality by the
retailer or vendor in such retailer's or vendor's vehicle, whether owned or
leased (not by common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be
subject to applicable municipality sales tax at the point of delivery and the
tax shall be collected and reported under taxpayer's sales tax permit number
accordingly.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 6, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-57 Revoking Permits
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
State, or both within and without this State, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this article or
the State use tax code or any order, rules or regulations of the Tax Commission
may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in 68 O.S. § 1408, 1981, by order
revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if
use tax permit, if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such
retailer or vendor is a corporation authorized to do business in this State
may, after notice and hearing above provided, cancel said corporation's license
to do business in this State and shall issue a new license only when such
corporation has complied with the obligations under this article, the State use
tax code, or any order, rules or regulations of the Tax Commission.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 7, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-58 Remunerative Deductions Allowed Vendors Or Retailers Of Other States
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the State use tax code; and remittances
of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as may be
allowed by said code for the collection of State use tax.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 8, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-59 Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
68 O.S. § 217, 1981, is hereby adopted and made a part of this article, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this article. Provided that the failure of any
retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in
the time and manner required by this article shall cause such tax to be
delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five (5)
days, the retailer of vendor shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed
under this article.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 9, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-60 Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer's or vendor's failure to pay the municipality tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance
as applied in administration of the State use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 227,
1981, and to accomplish the purposes of this section the applicable provisions
of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
article.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 10, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-61 Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
Refund of erroneous payment of the municipality use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, 1981, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made part of this article.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 11, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-62 Fraudulent Returns
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this article shall be an offense and upon conviction thereof the offending
taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) each day of noncompliance with this article shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 12, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-63 Records Confidential
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the municipality use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205, 1981, of the
State use tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference
and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the municipality
use tax as is herein set forth in full.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 13, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-64 Provisions Cumulative
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the municipality ordinances.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 14, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-65 Provisions Severable
The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable, and if any section,
paragraph, sentence or clause of this article is for any reason held invalid or
inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect any other section, paragraph, sentence or clause hereof.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 15, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-66 Definitions
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the State use tax
code, 68 O.S. § 1401, 1981, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this article. In addition thereto, the following words and terms shall be
defined as follows:
   A.   City shall mean the City of Purcell, Oklahoma.
   B.   Transaction shall mean sale.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 16, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-67 Tax Collector Defined
The term "tax collector" as used herein means the department of the
municipality government or the official agency of the State, duly designated
according to law or contract authorized by law, to administer the collection of
the tax herein levied.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 17, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-68 Classification Of Taxpayers
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the State use tax code.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 18, 9-6-2005)
Sec 98-69 Purpose Of Revenues
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the City, and any
and all revenue derived hereunder may be expended by the City Council for any
purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended and authorized.
(Ord. No. 05-05, § 19, 9-6-2005)
DIVISION 98-3-2 CITY SALES TAX ORDINANCE OF 2016
   
98-70   Citations
   
98-71   Tax Imposed
   
98-72   Purpose Of Revenues
   
98-73   (Reserved)
   
98-74   No Repeal Of Tax
   
98-75   Subsisting State Permits
   
98-76   Payment Of Tax
   
98-77   This Tax In Addition To Taxes Currently Levied; Administrative
Procedures
   
98-78   Amendments
   
98-79   Provisions Cumulative
   
98-80   Severability
Sec 98-70 Citations
This division shall be known and may be cited as the City of Purcell Sales Tax
Ordinance of 2016.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 1, 4-25-2016)
Sec 98-71 Tax Imposed
There is hereby imposed an excise tax (sales tax) of one percent (1%) (in
addition to any and all other excise taxes now in force) to be levied upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the
Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 2, 4-25-2016)
Sec 98-72 Purpose Of Revenues
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this division to provide
revenues to fund the construction, support. and operation of healthcare
facilities, equipment, and services serving the residents of the City of
Purcell, Oklahoma, including but not limited to operation, maintenance,
construction, acquisition, remodeling, and equipping of the Purcell Municipal
Hospital facilities, and/or for the payment of debt service in connection with
obligations issued to finance said improvements and related costs.
   B.   The provisions of this division and the collection of the one percent
(1%) excise tax referenced herein shall become effective on and after August
28, 2018, subject to approval by a majority of the qualified electors of the
City of Purcell, Oklahoma, voting on the same in the manner prescribed by law.
The provisions of this division and the collection of the one percent (1%)
excise tax referenced herein shall terminate and shall cease to be levied after
December 31, 2039.
(Ord. No. 16-03, §§ 4 and 5, 4-25-2016)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 18-04 on 6/4/2018
Sec 98-73 (Reserved)
Sec 98-74 No Repeal Of Tax
This division and the excise tax levied pursuant hereto shall not be repealed
by the city council or by referendum of the registered qualified voters of the
city in the event the proceeds of the referenced excise tax are being used or
have been pledged by the city or any public trust having the city as
beneficiary for the purpose of paying debt service on obligations issued by the
city or any public trust having the city as beneficiary.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 5, 4-25-2016)
Sec 98-75 Subsisting State Permits
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of
this division, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 6, 4-25-2016)
Sec 98-76 Payment Of Tax
The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the State
Tax Law of the State of Oklahoma.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 7, 4-25-2016)
Sec 98-77 This Tax In Addition To Taxes Currently Levied; Administrative
Procedures
The tax levied hereby is in addition to any and all other excise taxes levied
or assessed by the city pursuant to existing city ordinances (the "existing
ordinances"); provided, however, that those provisions, if any, of said
existing ordinances relating to definitions; tax collector defined;
classification of taxpayers-permit to do business; subsisting state permits;
the portion of tax rate-sales subject to tax, pertaining to sales subject to
tax (not rate of tax); the provisions of said existing ordinances regarding
exemptions and other exempt transfers; the provisions of said existing
ordinances regarding tax due when-returns-records; the portion of said existing
ordinances regarding tax constituting debt; vendor's duty to collect tax;
returns and remittances-discounts; interest and penalties-delinquency; waiver
of interest and penalties; erroneous payments-claim for refund; fraudulent
returns; and records confidential shall apply to the excise tax levied and
assessed by this division. For purposes of this division, references in said
existing ordinances, to specific provisions of the Oklahoma Statutes shall be
deemed to be references to said statutory provisions, as amended.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 8, 4-25-2016)
Sec 98-78 Amendments
The people of the City of Purcell, Oklahoma, by their approval of this division
at the election hereinabove provided for, hereby authorize the city by
ordinance duly enacted to make such administrative and technical changes or
additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcing this
division as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness or in order
to make the same consistent with the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, as amended,
except that the rate of the tax herein provided for shall not be changed
without approval of the qualified electors of the city as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 9, 4-25-2016)
Sec 98-79 Provisions Cumulative
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 10, 4-25-2016)
Sec 98-80 Severability
The provisions of this division are severable, and if any part or provision
hereof shall be adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
adjudication shall not affect or impair any of the remaining parts or
provisions hereof.
(Ord. No. 16-03, § 11, 4-25-2016)
ARTICLE 98-4 LODGING TAX
   Sec
98-85   Citation
   Sec
98-86   Definitions
   Sec
98-87   Tax Rate
   Sec
98-88   Exemptions
   Sec
98-89    Documentation of Exemption Required
   Sec
98-90   Tax to Be Separately Designated on Bills
   Sec
98-91    Operator Responsible for Collection
   Sec
98-92    Records to Be Kept
   Sec
98-93    Returns
   Sec
98-94    Payment of Tax
   Sec
98-95    Bond Required
   Sec
98-96    Assessment and Determination of Tax
   Sec
98-97    Refunds
   Sec
98-98    Notices
   Sec
98-99    Remedies Exclusive
   Sec
98-100    General Powers of the Clerk
   Sec
98-101    Administration of Oaths and Compelling Testimony
   Sec
98-102    Certificates of Registration
   Sec
98-103    Interest and Penalties
   Sec
98-104    Delinquent Taxes
   Sec
98-105    Collection by Suit
   Sec
98-106    Use of Funds
   Sec
98-107    Lodging Tax Committee
   Sec
98-108   Records Confidential
   Sec
98-109    Proceedings to Recover Tax
   Sec
98-110    Creation of Special Fund
   Sec
98-111    Amendments
   Sec
98-112   Provisions Cumulative
Sec 98-85 Citation
This article and the sections included in this article shall be known and cited
as "The Purcell Lodging Tax Ordinance" and shall be cited as Chapter 98,
Article 4, Section
98-85 -
98-112.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-86 Definitions
As used in this article the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
hereinafter set forth:
   A.   Clerk means the Clerk of the City of Purcell.
   B.   Hotel means any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other
facility in which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping
accommodations, whether such rooms are in one or several structures. The term
shall include hotels, apartment hotels, motels, tourist homes, houses or
courts, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, r.v. parks,
trailer motels, dormitory space where bed space is rented to individuals or
groups, apartments not occupied by "permanent residents," and all other
facilities where rooms or sleeping facilities or space are furnished for a
consideration. The term shall not include hospitals, sanitariums or nursing
homes nor shall this term affect permanent resident facilities as defined below
for residents for terms in excess of thirty-one (31) days.
   C.   Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or
possession, of any room or rooms in a hotel, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of any room or rooms.
   D.   Occupant means a person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or
has the right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel under
lease, concession, permit, right to access, license to use, or other agreement.
   E.   Operator means any person operating a hotel in the City of Purcell,
included, but not limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sub-lessee,
mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such
hotel.
   F.   Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money,
whether in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
   G.   Return means any return filed or required to be filed as herein
provided.
   H.   Room means any room or rooms, in any part or portion of a hotel and
space of any kind which is available for or let out for use or possessed for
any purpose other than a place of assembly. As used herein, "place of assembly"
means a room or space which is capable of being occupied by seventy-five (75)
or more persons and which is used for educational, recreational or amusement
purposes and shall include: Dance halls, cabarets; nightclubs; restaurants; any
room or space for public or private banquets, feasts, socials, card parties or
weddings; lodge and meeting halls or rooms; skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming
pools; billiard, bowling and table tennis rooms; halls or rooms used for public
or private catering purposes; funeral parlors; markets; recreational rooms;
concert halls; broadcasting studios, and all other places of similar type of
occupancy.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-87 Tax Rate
There is hereby levied an excise tax of five percent (5%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room
or rooms in a hotel in the City of Purcell, except that the tax shall not be
imposed where the rent is less than the rate of three dollars ($3.00) per day.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-88 Exemptions
The following shall be exempt from the tax levied in this article:
   A.   The United States Government or any agency or division thereof;
   B.   The State of Oklahoma; and
   C.   Any resident of Purcell having a permanent address.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-89 Documentation of Exemption Required
Anyone claiming to be exempt from the tax must provide a certificate to the
operator that the organization, association or corporation with which he/she is
affiliated is exempt from the tax. The operator shall require documentation
from the said organization, association or corporation that the occupant is its
agent, representative or employee, and that his or her occupancy of the room is
required in connection with the affairs of said organization; and upon such
proof, if the tax has been previously paid, a refund may be obtained from the
respective operator. This documentation shall be available for inspection from
each operator.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-90 Tax to Be Separately Designated on Bills
The operator shall separately designate, charge and show the tax on all bills,
statements, receipts or any other evidence of charges or payment of rent for
occupancy issued or delivered by the operator.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-91 Operator Responsible for Collection
The tax levied by this article shall be paid by the occupant to the operator,
whether person, firm or corporation, as trustee for and on account of the City
of Purcell. Each and every operator, whether person, firm or corporation, in
the City of Purcell shall collect from the occupant the full amount of the tax
levied by this article. Every person required to collect any tax imposed by
this article, and in the case of a corporation, each principal officer thereof,
shall be personally liable for said tax.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-92 Records to Be Kept
Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in such form as the Clerk
may by regulation require. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination at any time upon demand by the Clerk, or a duly authorized agent or
employee of the City of Purcell and shall be preserved for a period of three
(3) years; except that the Clerk may consent to their destruction within that
period or may require that they be kept longer.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-93 Returns
Every operator shall file with the Clerk a return of occupancy and of rents and
of the taxes payable on a per-month basis. Said return shall be due from the
operator and taxes payable thereon to the Clerk within fifteen (15) days of the
tax period accounted for in such return and is past-due thirty (30) days from
the date of the tax period accounted for.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-94 Payment of Tax
At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator shall
pay to the Clerk the taxes imposed by this article upon the rents included in
such return, as well as all other monies collected by the operator acting or
purporting to act under the provisions of this article. All the taxes for the
period for which a return is required to be filed shall be due from the
operator and payable to the Clerk on or before the date fixed for the filing of
the return for such period without regard to whether a return which is filed
correctly shows the amount of rents and the taxes thereon.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-95 Bond Required
   A.   Where the Clerk believes that any operator is about to cease business,
leave the State, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other similar reason
he/she deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under this article, he/
she may require such operator to file with the City of Purcell a bond issued by
a surety company authorized to transact business in this State in such amount
as the Clerk may fix to secure the payment of any tax or penalties and interest
due, or which may become due from such operator.
   B.   In the event that the Clerk determines that an operator is to file such
bond, he/she shall give notice to such operator specifying the amount of bond
required. The operator shall file such bond within five (5) days after the
giving of such notice unless within such five (5) days the operator shall
request in writing a hearing before the Purcell City Council or its designee,
at which the propriety and amount of the bond shall be determined by the
Purcell City Council or its designee. Such determination shall be final and
shall be complied with within fifteen (15) days thereafter. In lieu of such
bond, securities approved by the Clerk, or cash in such amount as he/she may
prescribe, may be deposited with the Clerk, who may at any time after five (5)
days notice to the depositor, apply them to any tax and/or any penalties due,
and for that purpose the securities may be sold at private or public sale.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-96 Assessment and Determination of Tax
If a return required by this article is not filed, or if a return when filed is
incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the Clerk
from such information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the tax may be
estimated on the basis of external indices such as number of rooms, location,
scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and services, number
of employees, or other factors. Written notice of such assessments shall be
given to the person liable for the collection and payment of the tax. Such
assessment shall finally and irrevocably fix and determine the tax unless the
person against whom it is assessed, within ninety (90) days after the giving of
notice of such assessment, shall apply in writing to the Purcell City Council
or its designee for a hearing or unless the Clerk on his or her own motion
shall reassess the same. After such hearing, the Purcell City Council or its
designee shall give written notice of its determination to the person against
whom the tax is assessed and such determination shall be final.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-97 Refunds
   A.   Procedure. The Clerk shall refund or credit any tax erroneously,
illegally or unconstitutionally collected if written application to the Clerk
for such refund shall be made within two (2) years from the date of payment
thereof. For like causes, and in the same period, a refund may be so made upon
the initiative and the order of the Clerk. Whenever a refund is made, the
reasons therefor shall be stated in writing. Such application may also be made
by the person who has collected and paid such tax to the Clerk, providing that
the application is made within two (2) years of the payment of the occupant to
the operator, but no refund of money shall be made to the operator until he has
repaid to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is made.
The Clerk, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow credit thereof
on payment due from the applicant.
   B.   Determination and hearing. Upon application for a refund, the Clerk may
receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such investigation as he/she
deems necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the Clerk shall
give notice thereof to the applicant. Such determination shall be final unless
the applicant, within ninety (90) days after such notice, shall apply in
writing to the Purcell City Council or its designee for a hearing. After such
hearing, the Purcell City Council or its designee shall give written notice of
its decision to the applicant.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-98 Notices
Notices provided for under this article shall be deemed to have been given when
such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the
United States mail to the last known address of the operator.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-99 Remedies Exclusive
The remedies provided in this article shall be the exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this article.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-100 General Powers of the Clerk
In addition to all other powers granted to the Clerk, the Clerk is hereby
authorized and empowered:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate for the
carrying out of this article;
   B.   To extend, for good cause shown, the time for filing a return for a
period not exceeding sixty (60) days; and for good cause shown waive, remit, or
reduce penalties or interest;
   C.   To delegate his or her functions hereunder to an assistant or other
employee or employees of the City of Purcell;
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes imposed
by this Article; and
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining taxable and nontaxable rents.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-101 Administration of Oaths and Compelling Testimony
The Clerk, or his or her designated representative, shall have the power to
administer oaths and take affidavits in relation to any matter or proceeding in
the exercise of his/her powers and duties under this article. The Clerk shall
have the power to subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the
production of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent to
the performance of his or her duties hereunder and the enforcement of this
article and to examine them in relation thereto.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-102 Certificates of Registration
Every operator shall file with the Clerk a certificate of registration in a
form prescribed by said Clerk within ten (10) days after the effective date of
this article, or in the case of operators commencing business or opening new
hotels after such effective date, within three (3) days after such commencement
or opening. The Clerk shall, within five (5) days after such registration,
issue, without charge, to each operator a certificate of authority empowering
such operator to collect the tax from the occupant and duplicates thereof for
each additional hotel. Each certificate of authority shall be permanently
displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be seen and come to the
notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such certificates shall
be nonassignable and nontransferable, and shall be surrendered immediately to
the Clerk upon the cessation of business at the hotel named, or upon its sale
or transfer.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-103 Interest and Penalties
   A.   If any tax levied by this article becomes delinquent, the person
responsible and liable for such tax shall pay interest on such unpaid tax at
the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) percent per month on the unpaid balance
from the date of delinquency.
   B.   In addition to the interest, if a return is not filed and the total
amount of taxes due remitted within thirty (30) days of the due date as defined
in this article, a penalty of ten (10) percent of the total amount of taxes due
shall be assessed; but if a return is not filed and/or the total amount of the
taxes is not paid after sixty (60) days from such due date, the penalty shall
increase to twenty-five (25) percent of the total amount of taxes due.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-104 Delinquent Taxes
The tax levied by this article shall be due and payable at the time filing of
the returns provided for in this article is required. All taxes not paid within
five (5) days from the time they become due shall be delinquent.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-105 Collection by Suit
Such taxes and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a prior,
superior and paramount claim as against the claim of unsecured creditors and
may be collected by suit as any other debt.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-106 Use of Funds
All taxes collected pursuant to provisions of this article shall be spent on
advertising of and promotion of tourism events and venues, for tourism events
and venue infrastructure, and administration as designated by a committee
created pursuant to Section 98-107 herein.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-107 Lodging Tax Committee
There is hereby created a Lodging Tax Committee to oversee the distribution of
the monies received by this tax. The committee shall be composed of the
following:
Member                                Appointed By:
Hotel Representative                  Heart of Oklahoma Chamber of Commerce
Chamber of Commerce Director          Heart of Oklahoma Chamber of Commerce
Purcell Parks and Recreation Employee Purcell City Council
Purcell City Council Member           Purcell City Council
Citizen at Large                      Purcell City Council
Merchant                              Heart of Oklahoma Chamber of Commerce
Purcell City Manager                  Purcell City Council
 
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-108 Records Confidential
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared, and
to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S., § 205 of the State Sales Tax
Code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and made
fully effective and applicable to administration of the Purcell Lodging Tax as
herein set forth.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-109 Proceedings to Recover Tax
   A.   Whenever any taxpayer or other person shall fail to collect and pay
over any tax or any tax penalty due and owing, or interest imposed by this
article as herein provided, the Purcell City Attorney shall, upon the request
of the Clerk, take appropriate action to enforce the payment of the same.
   B.   Further, pursuant to the authority of Title 68 O.S. § 2704, all taxes,
interest and penalties imposed by this article are hereby declared to
constitute a lien in favor of the City of Purcell upon all franchises, property
and rights to property, whether real or personal, then belonging to or
thereafter acquired by the person, firm or corporation owing the tax, whether
such property is employed by such person, firm or corporation in the conduct of
its business, or in the hands of an assignee, trustee or receiver for the
benefit of creditors, from the date said taxes are due and payable under the
provisions of this article.
   C.   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected under this
article shall be deemed to be held in trust for the City of Purcell; and, as
trustee, the collecting person, firm or corporation shall have a fiduciary duty
to the City of Purcell in regards to such sums and shall be subject to the
trust laws of this state. Any person, firm or corporation who willfully or
intentionally fails to remit the tax, after tax levied by this article was
collected from the occupant, and appropriates the tax held in trust to his or
her own use, or to the use of any person, firm or corporation not entitled
thereto, without the authority of law, shall be guilty of embezzlement.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-110 Creation of Special Fund
There is hereby created a special fund that all monies received pursuant to the
Lodging Tax shall be placed.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-111 Amendments
The people of the City of Purcell, by their approval of this article at the
election herein provided, hereby authorize the City Council of the City of
Purcell by ordinance duly enacted, to make such administrative and technical
changes or additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcing
this article as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness; except
that the rate of the tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval
of the qualified electors of the City of Purcell as provided by law.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
Sec 98-112 Provisions Cumulative
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the City of Purcell ordinances.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 20-03 on 10/5/2020
CHAPTER 102 TELECOMMUNICATIONS
   
102-1   Cable Television Ordinance
   
102-2   Telecommunications Facilities
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; utilities, Ch.
110; zoning, Ch.
122.
State Law reference- Municipal certificate, license or permit for the operation
of a cable television system, 11 O.S. § 22-107.1; cable television, delinquent
accounts, fees, 11 O.S. § 22-107.2; telecommunications, 17 O.S. § 131 et seq.
Sec 102-1 Cable Television Ordinance
The City of Purcell, Oklahoma, having determined that the financial, legal, and
technical ability of Classic Cable of Oklahoma, Inc., d/b/a Suddenlink
Communications, is reasonably sufficient to provide services, facilities and
equipment necessary to meet thefuture cable-related needs of the community,
does hereby ordain as follows:
Article 1.   Definitions of Terms.
For the purpose of this ordinance (the "ordinance"), the following teams,
phrases, words and abbreviations shall have the meanings ascribed to them
below. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future tense, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
"Affiliate" means as entity which owns or controls, is owned or controlled by,
or is under common ownership or control with Grantee.
"Basic Cable" means the tier of cable service regularly provided to all
subscribers that includes the retransmission of local broadcast television
signals.
"Cable service" means (i) the one-way transmission to subscribers of video
programming or other programming service, and (ii) subscriber interaction, if
any, which is required for the selection or use of such video programming or
other programming service.
"Cable system" means a facility, consistent of a set of closed transmission
paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment or
other equipment that is designed to provide cable service or other service to
subscriber.
"FCC" means Federal Communications Commission or successor government entity
thereto.
"Franchise" means the initial authorization or renewal thereof, issued by
franchising authority, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise,
permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, or otherwise, which
authorizes construction and operation of the cable system for the purpose of
offering cable service or other service to subscribers.
"Franchising authority" means the City of Purcell, Oklahoma or the lawful
successor, transferee, or assignee thereof,
"Grantee" means Classic Cable of Oklahoma, Inc., d/b/a Suddenlink
Communications, or the lawful successor, transferee, or assignee thereof.
"Gross revenues" means the monthly revenues for the provision of cable service
received by grantee from subscribers located within the service area. "Gross
revenues" does not include" (i) any revenues received from any advertising
carried on the cable system; (ii) any taxes or fees on cable service which are
imposed directly or indirectly on any subscriber by any governmental unit or
agency, and which are collected by grantee on behalf of such governmental unit
or agency; (iii) any revenues derived from services sold on a per channel or
per view basis; or (iv) any revenues derived from installation or repair
charges,
"Person" means an individual, partnership, association, joint stock company,
trust corporation, or governmental entity.
"Public way" means the surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk,
parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle, or other public rights-of-way;
including, but not limited to public utility easements, dedicated utility
strips, or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary or
permanent fixture or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by
franchising authority in the service area which shall entitle franchising
authority and grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of public travel, or
for utility or public service use dedicated for compatible uses, and shall
include other easements or rights-of-way as shall within their proper use
thereof be used for the purposes of installing or transmitting grantee's cable
service or other service over poles, wires, cables, conductors, ducts,
conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and
other related property or equipment as may be necessary or appurtenant to the
cable system.
"Service area" means the present municipal boundaries of franchising authority
if franchising authority is a City, and shall include any additions thereto by
annexation or other legal means; and means the county boundaries of franchising
authority if franchising authority is a county.
"Subscriber" means a user of the cable system who lawfully receives cable
service or other there from with grantee's express permission.
"Video programming" means programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.
Article 2.   Grant of Franchise.
   A.   Grant. Franchising authority hereby grants to grantee a nonexclusive
franchise which authorizes grantee to construct and operate a cable system and
offer cable service and other service in, along, among, upon, across, above,
over, under, or in any manner connected with public ways within the service
area, and, for that purpose, to erect, install, construct, repair, replace,
reconstruct, maintain, or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across, or along
any public way and all extensions thereof and additions thereto, such poles,
wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conditions, vaults, manholes, pedestals,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and other related property or equipment as
may be necessary or appurtenant to the cable system.
   B.   Term. The Franchise granted pursuant to this ordinance shall be for an
initial term of fifteen (15) years from the passed and adopted date of the
franchise unless otherwiselawfully terminated in accordance withthe terms of
this ordinance.
   C.   Acceptance. Grantee shall accept the franchise granted pursuant hereto
by signing this ordinance and filing same with the City Clerk orother
appropriate official or agency of franchising authority within sixty (60) days
after the passage and final adoption of this ordinance,
   D.   Favored nations. In the event franchising authority enters into a
franchise, permit, license, authorization, or other agreement of any kind with
any person other than grantee to enter into franchising authority's streets and
public ways for the purpose of constructing or operating a cable system or
providing cable service to any part of the service area, the material
provisions thereof shall be reasonably comparable to those contained herein, in
order thatone operator not be granted an unfair competitive advantage over
another, and to provide all parties equal protection under the law.
   E.   Renewal of franchise. By mutual consent, the grantee shall have the
option to renew this franchise for an additional period not to exceed ten (10)
years. Should grantee desire to exercise this option, it shall so notify the
franchising authority in writing, not less than three (3) months prior to
expiration of this franchise.
Article 3.   Standards of Service.
   A.   Conditions of street occupancy. All transmission and distribution
structures, pole, other lines, and equipment installed or erected by grantee
pursuant to the terms hereof shall be located so as to cause a minimum of
interference with the proper use of public ways and with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who own property that adjoins any of
such public ways.
   B.   Restoration of public ways. If during the course of grantee's
construction, operation, or maintenance of the cable system there occurs a
disturbance of any public way by grantee, it shall, at its expense, replace and
restore such public way to a condition reasonably comparable to the condition
of the public way existing immediately prior to such disturbance.
   C.   Relocation at request of franchising authority. Upon its receipt of
reasonable advance notice, not to be less than thirty (30) days, grantee shall,
at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate in the
public way, or remove from the public way, any property of grantee when
lawfully required by franchising authority by reason of traffic conditions,
public safety, street abandonment, freeway and street construction, change or
establishment of street grade, installation of sewers, drains, or water pipes,
or any other type of structures or improvement by franchising authority; but,
grantee shall in all cases have the right of abandonment of its property. If
public funds are available to any company using such street, easement, or right
of way for the purpose of defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, such
funds shall also be made available to grantee.
   D.   Relocation at request of third party. Grantee shall, on the request of
any person holding a building moving permit issued by franchising authority,
temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of such building,
provided: (i) the expense of such temporary raising or lowing of wires is paid
by such person, including, if required by grantee, making such payment in
advance; and (ii) grantee is given not fewer than then ten (10) business days
advance written, notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   E.   Trimming of trees and shrubbery. Grantee shall have the authority to
trim trees or other natural growth overhanging any of its cable system in the
service area so as to prevent branches from coming in contact with grantee's
wires, cables, or other equipment. Grantee shall be permitted to charge persons
who own, or are responsible for, such trees or natural growth for the cost of
such trimming, provided that similar charges are assessed, by and paid to the
utilities of franchising authority for tree trimming. Grantee shall reasonably
compensate franchising authority or property owner for any damages caused by
such trimming, or shall, in its sole discretion and at its own cost and
expense, reasonably replace all trees or shrubs damaged as a result of any
construction of the system undertaken by Grantee. Such replacement shall
satisfy any and all obligations grantee may have to franchising authority or
property owner pursuant to the terms of this section.
   F.   Safety requirements. Construction, installation, and maintenance of the
cable system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All such
work shall be performed in substantial accordance with applicable FCC or other
federal, state, and local regulations. The cable system shall not unreasonably
endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or property in the service
area.
   G.   Aerial and underground construction. In those areas of the service area
where all of the transmission or distribution facilities of the respective
public utilities providing telephone communications and electric services are
underground, grantee likewise shall construct, operate, and maintain all of its
transmission and distribution facilities underground; provided that such
facilities are actually capable of receiving grantee's cable and other
equipment without technical degradation of the cable system's signal quality,
In those areas of the service area where the transmission or distribution
facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are both aerial and underground, grantee
shall have the sole discretion to construct, operate, and maintain all of its
transmissions and distribution facilities, or any part thereof, aerial or
underground. Nothing contained in this Article 3, subsection (G) shall require
grantee to construct, operate, and maintain underground any ground- mounted
appurtenances such as subscriber taps, line extenders, system passive devices
(splitters, directional couplers), amplifiers, power supplies, pedestals, or
other related equipment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
this Article 3, subsection (G) in the event that all of the transmission or
distribution facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone
communications and electric services are placed underground after the effective
date of this ordinance, grantee shall only be required to construct, operate,
and maintain all of its transmission and distribution facilities underground if
it is given reasonable notice and access to the public utilities' facilities at
the time that such are placed underground.
   H.   Required extensions of service. The cable system, as constructed as of
the date of the passage and final adoption of this ordinance, substantially
complies with the material provisions hereof grantee is hereby authorized to
extend the cable system as necessary, as desirable, or as required pursuant to
the terms hereof within the service area. Whenever grantee shall receive a
request for service from at least fifteen (15) subscribers within one thousand
three hundred twenty (1,320) cable-bearing strand feet (one-quarter cable mile)
of its trunk or distribution cable, it shall extend its cable system to such
subscribers at no cost to such subscribers for system extension, other than the
usual connection fees for all subscribers; provided that such extension is
technically feasible, and if it will not adversely affect the operation,
financial condition, or market development of the cable system, or as provided
for under Article 3, subsection (I) of this ordinance.
   I.   Subscriber charges for extension of service. No subscriber shall be
refused service arbitrarily. However, for unusual circumstances, such as a
subscriber's request to locate his cable drop underground, existence of more
than one hundred fifty (150) feet of distance from distribution cable to
connection of service to subscribers, or a density of fewer than fifteen (15)
subscribers per one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) cable-bearing strand
feet to trunk or distribution cable, cable service or other service may be made
available on the basis of a capital contribution in aid of construction,
including cost of material, labor, and easement. Potential subscribers shall
bear the costs of the construction and other costs on pro rata basis. Grantee
may require payment in advance of the capital contribution in aid of
construction borne by such potential subscribers.
   J.   Service to public buildings. Grantee shall provide without charge one
(1) outlet of basic cable to franchising authority's office building(s) and
public school building(s) that are passed by its cable system. The outlets of
basic cable shall not be used to distribute or sell cable service in or
throughout such buildings; nor shall such outlets be located in common or
public areas open to the public. Users of such outlets shall hold grantee
harmless from any and all liability or claims arising out of their use of such
outlets, including, but not limited to, those arising from copyright liability.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Article 3,
subsection (J), grantee shall not be required to provide an outlet to such
buildings where the drop line from the feeder cable to such building or
premises exceeds one hundred fifty (150) cable feet, unless it is technically
feasible and it will not adversely affect the operation, financial condition,
or market development of the cable system to do so, or unless the appropriate
governmental entity agrees to pay the incremental cost of such drop line in
excess of one hundred fifty (150) cable feet. In the event that additional
outlets of basic cable are provided to such buildings, the building owner shall
pay the usual installation fees associated therewith, including, but not
limited to, labor and materials. Upon request of grantee, the building owner
may also be required to pay the service fees associated with the provision of
basic cable and the additional outlets relating thereto.
Article 4.   Regulation by Franchising Authority.
   A.   Franchise fee.
      1.   Grantee shall pay the franchising authority a franchise fee equal to
three percent (3%) of gross revenue from the provision of cable services within
the franchise area received by grantee on a quarterly basis; provided, however,
that grantee may credit against any such payments: (i) any tax, fee, or
assessment of any kind imposed by franchising authority or other governmental
entity on a cable operator, or subscriber, or both, solely because of their
status as such; (ii) any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability which
is unduly discriminatory against cable operators or Subscribers (including any
such tax, fee, or assessment imposed, both on utilities and cable operators and
their services), and (iii) any other special tax, assessment, or fee such as a
business, occupation, and entertainment tax. For the purpose of this section,
the three (3) month period applicable under the franchise for the computation
of the franchise fee shall be a calendar quarter, unless otherwise agreed to in
writing by the franchising authority and grantee. The franchise fee payment
shall be due and payable sixty (60) days after the close of the preceding
calendar quarter. Each payment shall be accompanied by a letter from a
representative of grantee showing the basis for the computation.
      2.   Limitation on franchise fee actions. The period of limitation for
recovery of any franchise fee payable hereunder shall be three (3) years from
the date on which payment by grantee is due. Unless within three (3) years from
and after such payment due date franchising authority initiates a lawsuit for
recovery of franchise fees in a court of competent jurisdiction, recovery shall
be barred and franchising authority shall be stopped from asserting any claims
whatsoever against grantee relating to alleged franchise fee deficiencies.
   B.   Rates and charges. Franchising authority may not regulate the rates for
the provision of cable service or other service, including, but not limited to,
ancillary charges relating thereto, except as expressly provided herein and
except as may be authorized pursuant to federal and state law. From time to
time, and at any time, grantee has the right to modify its rates and charges,
at its discretion and without consent of franchising authority, including, but
not limited to, the implementation of additional charges and rates; provided,
however, that grantee shall give notice to franchising authority of any such
modifications or additional charges thirty (30) days prior to the effective
date thereof.
   C.   Conditions of sale. Except to the extent expressly required by federal
or state law, if a renewal or extension of the franchise is denied or the
franchise is lawfully terminated, and franchising authority either lawfully
acquires ownership of the cable system or by its actions lawfully effects a
transfer of ownership of the cable system to another party, any such
acquisition or transfer shall be at a fair market value, determined on the
basis of the cable system valued as a going concern.
Grantee and franchising authority agree that in case of a lawful revocation of
the franchise, at grantee's request, which shall be made in its sole
discretion, grantee shall be given a reasonable opportunity to effectuate a
transfer of its cable system to a qualified third party. Franchising authority
further agrees that during such a period of time, it shall authorize grantee to
continue to operate pursuant to the terms of its prior franchise; however, in
no event shall such authorization exceed a period of time greater than six (6)
months from the effective date of such revocation. If, at the end of that time
grantee is unsuccessful in procuring a qualified transferee or assignee of its
cable system which is reasonably acceptable to franchising authority, grantee
and franchising authority may avail themselves of any rights they may have
pursuant to federal or state law; it being further agreed that grantee's
continued operation of its cable system during the six (6) month period shall
not be deemed to be a waiver, nor an extinguishment of, any rights of either
franchising authority or grantee. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set
forth in this Article 4, subsection (C), neither franchising authority nor
grantee shall be required to violate federal or state law.
   D.   Transfer of franchise. All of the rights and privileges and all of the
obligations, duties and liabilities created by the franchise shall pass to and
be binding upon the successors of the franchising authority and the successors
and assigns of grantee; and the same shall not be assigned or transferred
without the written approval of the City Council, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld; provided, however, that this section shall not prevent
the assignment or hypothecation of the franchise by grantee as security for
debt without such approval; and provided further that transfers or assignments
of this franchise between any parent and subsidiary corporation or between
entities of which at least fifty percent (50%) of the beneficial ownership is
held by the same person, persons, or entities which are controlled or managed
by the same person, persons, or entities, shall be permitted without the prior
approval of the franchising authority ("intra-company transfer"). Grantee shall
notify franchising authority in writing within thirty (30) days of the closing
of such intra-company transfer.
Article 5.   Compliance and Monitoring.
   A.   Books and records. Grantee agrees that franchising authority may review
such of grantee's books and records, during normal business hours and on a non-
disruptive basis, as are reasonably necessary to monitor compliance with the
terms hereof. Such records include, but are not limited to, any public records
required to be kept by grantee pursuant to the rules and regulations of the
FCC. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, grantee shall
not be required to disclose information which it reasonably deems to be
proprietary or confidential in nature. Franchising authority agrees to treat
any information disclosed to it by grantee as confidential, and to disclose it
only to employees, representatives, and agents of franchising authority that
have a need to know, or in order to enforce the provisions hereof.
Article 6.   Insurance, Indemnification, and Bonds or Other Surety.
   A.   Insurance requirements. Grantee shall maintain in full force and effect
during the term of the franchise, at its own cost and expense, comprehensive
general liability insurance in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000).
Such insurance shall designate franchising authority as an additional insured.
   B.   Indemnification. Grantee agrees to indemnify, save and hold harmless,
and defend franchising authority, its officers, boards, and employees, from and
against any liability for damages and for any liability or claims resulting
from property damage or bodily injury (including accidental death) which arise
out of grantee's construction, operation or maintenance of its cable system,
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney's fees and costs.
   C.   Bonds and other surety. Except as expressly provided herein, grantee
shall not be required to obtain or maintain bonds or other surety as a
condition of being awarded the franchise or continuing its existence.
Franchising authority acknowledges that the legal, financial, and technical
qualifications of grantee are sufficient to afford compliance with the terms of
the franchise and the enforcement thereof. Grantee and franchising authority
recognize that the costs associated with bonds and other surety may ultimately
be borne by the subscribers in the form of increased rates for cable service or
other service. In order to minimize such costs, franchising authority agrees to
require bonds and other surety only in such amounts and during such times as
there is a reasonably demonstrated need thereof. Franchising authority agrees
that in no event, however, shall it require a bond or other related surety in
an aggregate amount greater than ten thousand dollars ($10,000), conditioned
upon the substantial performance of the material terms, covenants, and
conditions of the franchise.
Initially, no bond or other surety shall he required. In the event that one is
required in the future, franchising authority agrees to give grantee at least
sixty (60) days prior written notice thereof stating the exact reason for the
requirement. Such reason must demonstrate a change in grantee's legal,
financial, or technical qualifications which would materially prohibit or
impair its ability to comply with the terms of the franchise or afford
compliance therewith.
Article 7.   Enforcement and Termination of Franchise.
   A.   Notice of violation. In the event that franchising authority believes
that grantee has not complied with the terms of the franchise, it shall notify
grantee in writing of the exact nature of the alleged default.
   B.   Grantee's right to cure or respond. Grantee shall have sixty (60) days
from receipt of the notice described in Article 7, subsection (A): (i) to
respond to franchising authority contesting the assertion of default; (ii) to
cure such default; or (iii) in the event that, by the nature of the default,
such default cannot be cured within sixty (60) day period, to initiate
reasonable steps to remedy such default and to notify franchising authority of
the steps being taken and the projected date that they will be completed.
   C.   Public hearing. In the event that grantee fails to respond to the
notice described in Article 7, subsection (A) pursuant to the procedures set
forth in Article 7, subsection (B), or in the event that the alleged default is
not remedied within one hundred twenty (120) days after grantee is notified of
the alleged default pursuant to Article 7, subsection (A), franchising
authority shall schedule a public meeting to investigate the default. Such
public meeting shall be held at the next regularly scheduled meeting of
franchising authority which is scheduled at a time which is no fewer than five
(5) business days therefrom. Franchising authority shall notify grantee of the
time and place of such meeting and provide grantee with an opportunity to be
heard.
   D.   Enforcement. Subject to applicable federal and state law, in the event
franchising authority determines, after such meeting, that grantee is in
default of any provision of the franchise, franchising authority may:
      1.   Foreclose on all or any part of any security provided under the
franchise, if any, including, without limitation, any bonds or other surety;
provided, however, that the foreclosure shall only be in such a manner and in
such amount as franchising authority reasonably determines is necessary to
remedy the default;
      2.   Commence an action at law for monetary damages or seek other
equitable relief;
      3.   In the ease of a substantial default of a material provision of the
franchise, declare the franchise agreement to be revoked; or
      4.   Seek specific performance of any provision which reasonably lends
itself to such remedy, as an alternative to damages. Grantee shall not be
relieved of any of its obligations to comply promptly with any provision of the
franchise by reason of any failure of franchising authority to enforce prompt
compliance.
   E.   Acts of God. Grantee shall not be held in default of the provisions of
the franchise, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty relating thereto, where
such alleged default is caused by strikes, acts of god, power outages, or other
events reasonably beyond its ability to control.
Article 8.   Unauthorized Reception.
   A.   Misdemeanor. In addition to those criminal and other remedies provided
by state and federal law, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to create or
make use inductively, or otherwise, with any part of the cable system without
the express consent of grantee. Further, without the express consent of
grantee, it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to tamper with, remove, or
injure any property, equipment, or part of cable system or any means of
receiving cable service or other service. Subject to applicable federal and
state law, franchising authority shall incorporate into its criminal code, if
not presently a part thereof, criminal misdemeanor law which shall enforce the
intent of Article 8, subsection A.
Article 9.   Miscellaneous Provisions.
   A.   Preemption. If the FCC or any other federal or state body or agency
shall now or hereafter exercise any paramount jurisdiction over the subject
matter or the exercise of the like jurisdiction by franchising authority, the
jurisdiction of franchising authority shall cease and no longer exist.
   B.   Employee requirements. Grantee shall afford equal opportunity in
employment to all qualified persons. No person shall be discriminated against
in employment because of race, color, religion, national origin or sex. Grantee
shall maintain and carry out a continuing program of specific practices
designed to assure equal opportunity in every aspect of its employment policies
and practices.
   C.   Actions of franchising authority. In any action by franchising
authority or representative thereof mandated or permitted under the terns
hereof, such party shall act in a reasonable, expeditious and timely manner.
Furthermore, in any instance where approval or consent is required under the
terms hereof, such approval or consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   D.   Notice. Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every
notice or response to be served upon franchising authority or grantee shall he
in writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly given to the required party
five (5) business days after having been posted in a properly sealed and
correctly addressed envelope by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid,
at a post office or branch thereof regularly maintained by the U.S. Postal
Service.
      The notices or responses to franchising authority shall be addressed as
follows:
      Express Delivery or Packages Only
      City of Purcell, Oklahoma
      230 W. Main Street
      Purcell, Oklahoma 73080
 
      The notices or responses to grantee shall be addressed as follows:
Suddenlink Communications
      Attention: Michael Zarrilli
      12444 Powerscourt Drive
      Suite 450
      Purcell, Oklahoma 73080
 
      CC: Suddenlink Communications
      Attention: Charles Hembree
      2206 N. Green Ave.
      St. Louis, MO 63131
      Franchising authority and grantee may designate such other address or
addresses from time to time by giving written notice to the other party.
   E.   Descriptive heading. The captions to sections contained herein are
intended solely to facilitate the reading thereof. Such captions shall not
affect the meaning or interpretation of the text herein.
Editor's note- Cable franchise extended for an additional six (6) months
beginning 8/7/2010 and ending 2/7/2011, Ord. No. 10-11, 8/2/2010; Ord. No. 11-
02 adopted 1/3/2011.
Per city's instruction, ordinance provisions have been formatted in approximate
accordance with Code style.
Sec 102-2 Telecommunications Facilities
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations for telecommunications
facilities are:
      1.   To facilitate the provision of telecommunications services
throughout the City;
      2.   To enhance the ability to provide telecommunications services to the
community quickly, effectively and efficiently;
      3.   To encourage the location of towers in non-residential zoned
districts;
      4.   To minimize the total number of towers in the community;
      5.   To encourage the joint use of new and existing tower locations;
      6.   To ensure that towers are located in areas that minimize adverse
impacts;
      7.   To ensure towers and antennas are configured in a way that minimizes
adverse visual impacts by careful design, appropriate setting and landscape
screening;
      8.   To encourage the attachment of antennas on existing structures;
      9.   To consider public health and safety effects of telecommunications
facilities;
      10.   To avoid damage to adjacent properties from tower failure through
careful engineering and locating of tower structures; and
      11.   To protect residential areas and lands by minimizing adverse
impacts of towers.
   B.   Definitions.
      Accessory support facilities shall mean support buildings, structures and
equipment cabinets for telecommunications facilities containing, electrical and
mechanical equipment and devices used for the reception of or transmission of
voice, data, image, graphic and video programming information between or among
points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or
similar facilities.
      Alternative tower structure shall mean clock towers, bell steeples,
building structures or building equipment normally maintained above the roof
line of a structure, light poles and similar alternative design mounting
structures. An alternative tower structure must be compatible with the natural
setting and surrounding structures, must camouflage or conceal the presence of
antennas and/or towers and be a minimum of thirty (30) feet in height. This
term also includes any antenna or antenna array attached to the alternative
tower structure.
      Antenna shall mean any exterior transmitting or receiving devices mounted
on a tower, building or structure and used in communications that radiate or
capture electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio
frequencies (excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or
other communication signals.
      Backhaul network shall mean the lines that connect a provider's tower/
cell sites to one (1) or more cellular telephone switching offices, and/or long
distance providers, or the public switched telephone network.
      Co-location shall mean the use of a single mount or tower on the ground
by more than one (1) carrier or several antennas on an existing building or
structure by more than one (1) carrier.
      FAA shall mean the Federal Aviation Administration.
      FCC shall mean the Federal Communications Commission.
      Fall zone shall mean the area of ground within a prescribed radius from
the base of a telecommunications tower and antenna. The fall zone is the area
within which there is a potential hazard of falling debris or collapsing
material.
      Telecommunications facilities shall mean the plant, equipment and
property, including, but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts,
pedestals, antennae, towers, alternative tower structures, electronics and
other appurtenances used to transmit, receive, distribute, provide or offer
telecommunications services.
      Telecommunications service shall mean the providing or offering for rent,
sale or lease, or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of
voice, data, image, graphic and video programming information between or among
points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or
similar facilities, with or without benefits or any closed transmission medium.
      Tower shall mean any structure designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one (1) or more antennas, including self-supporting
lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and
television transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers,
cellular telephone towers, and other similar structures. This term also
includes any antenna or antenna array attached to the tower structure.
      Tower height shall mean, when referring to a tower or other alternative
tower structure, the distance measured from the lowest point within ten (10)
feet of the structure to the highest point on the tower or other alternative
tower structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
   C.   Permit required. Telecommunications facilities shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this section and the zoning ordinances of the City.
      1.   A telecommunications facility shall obtain a building permit as a
condition for the setting, construction or operation of the telecommunications
facility.
      2.   These regulations shall apply to all towers and antennas as defined,
except:
         a.   Any tower or antenna not more than seventy (70) feet in height,
owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator if it
is used exclusively as a receive only facility;
         b.   Any antenna co-located on an existing telecommunications
facility, except as expressly provided in this section; or
         c.   A telecommunications facility located or co-located on property
which is owned by the City and designated by the City as a site suitable for
location of a telecommunications facility.
      3.   Any violation of this section is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. In addition to any other relief or penalty provided by law, the City
may apply to the McClain County District Court for an injunction to prohibit
the continuation of any violation of this section.
   D.   Co-location requirements.
      1.   All applicants for a telecommunications facility permit shall co-
locate on an existing facility if it is feasible to do so. An existing facility
shall be deemed to be available to the applicant for co-location if the
facility is within the search ring of the applicant or within a reasonable
distance so as to fit into the applicant's design; space is available on the
facility; and the facility owner will lease space to applicant at a reasonable
market rate.
         a.   If the applicant finds co-location is not feasible, it shall
submit to the City a written statement of the reasons for the infeasibility.
The City may retain a technical expert in the field of radio frequency (RF)
engineering to determine whether co-location at the site is feasible. The cost
for such a technical expert will be at the expense of the applicant.
         b.   The City may deny the permit unless the applicant demonstrates to
the City by that existing telecommunications facilities cannot accommodate the
applicant's proposed antenna.
      2.   A telecommunications tower shall not be permitted unless the owner
of the proposed tower certifies to the City that the tower is available for use
by other telecommunications service providers on a reasonable and
nondiscriminatory basis. Towers shall be designed and built to accommodate a
minimum of three (3) telecommunications facilities.
      3.   To facilitate co-location and coordination of telecommunication
sites all telecommunication service providers shall, within ninety (90) days of
the passage of the ordinance from which this section is derived, provide the
City with their respective master antenna plans. Said plans shall include
detailed maps showing the locations of all telecommunications towers serving
any portion of the City and indicating their coverage areas.
      4.   Providers shall also provide the City with any updates to the above
documents within ninety (90) days of their creation.
   E.   Telecommunication facility standards.
      1.   The exterior of equipment buildings and/or metal equipment cabinets
visible from residential areas or public right-of-way must have a neutral
aggregate finish or be painted to reflect the color and character of adjoining
structures or blend with adjacent landscaping and other surroundings.
      2.   At the telecommunications facility, the design of the buildings and
related structures used in conjunction with telecommunications facilities
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend the telecommunications facilities to the natural
setting and the built environment.
      3.   The base of the tower and any accessory support facilities such as
anchored locations of guy wires shall be screened from view with a solid fence,
which shall be a minimum of six (6) feet in height.
      4.   If a telecommunication facility is adjacent to a residential zone,
the base of the tower, accessory support facilities, anchors, parking area,
etc. shall have a locked six (6) foot continuous solid fence between and around
all appurtenances for securing of these items. Additionally a five (5) foot
horizontal buffer of landscaping outside the perimeter of the fenced facilities
is required.
      5.   Guy wires must be anchored no closer than twenty-five (25) feet from
any property line. Guy wires shall not cross or encroach any overhead
telephone, electric power lines, cable television lines, or any public
easement, alley, street or property.
      6.   The height of a single antenna tower shall not exceed one hundred
(100) feet. The height of a tower with two (2) or more antennas shall not
exceed one hundred ninety-five (195) feet. Maximum height shall be measured
from ground at base to highest point on tower and antenna. A conditional use
permit will be required for any structure that exceeds one hundred ninety-five
(195) feet.
      7.   Applicants will be required to demonstrate that the planned
telecommunications facility will not cause radio frequency interference with
other equipment. Such interference is prohibited.
      8.   Illumination of a tower is prohibited except as required by the FAA.
Strobes shall not be used for nighttime lighting. Any required lighting shall
be directed upward and away from adjoining properties. In addition, the ground
level security lighting shall not be more than twenty (20) feet in height and
shall be focused to avoid conflict with vehicle operators in a public right-of-
way and adjacent residential zones and or structures.
      9.   The applicant will be required to provide ingress/egress only from
approved access points and a minimum of one (1) off-street parking space per
provider.
      10.   Fall zone/setback requirements. All wireless telecommunications
towers and their equipment shelters shall comply with the building setback
provisions of the zoning district in which it is located. In addition, the
following requirements shall be observed:
         a.   In order to insure public safety, the minimum distance from the
base of any ground-mounted wireless telecommunications service facility to any
property line, road, habitable dwelling, business or institutional use, or
public recreation area shall be the height of the tower and any antenna mounted
on it. This setback is considered a "fall zone";
         b.   In the event that an existing structure is proposed for mounting
an antenna, a fall zone shall not be required, but the setbacks of the zoning
district shall apply. In the case of pre-existing, nonconforming structures,
wireless telecommunications service facilities and their equipment shelters
shall not increase any nonconformities, except as provided in subsection (E)
(10)(c) of this section;
         c.   In reviewing an application for a permit for a wireless
telecommunications facility, the Planning Commission may reduce the required
setback or fall zone by as much as fifty percent (50%) of the required
distance, if the Planning Commission finds that a substantially better design
will result from such a reduction. In making such a finding, the Planning
Commission shall consider both the visual and safety impacts of the proposed
use.
      11.   Signs on telecommunication towers shall only display the name,
registration and emergency contact number of the tower owner with the exception
of signs required by FCC regulations or signs containing warning or safety
instructions. Signs are limited to four (4) square feet in size and advertising
is expressly prohibited.
      12.   No tower shall be closer than five hundred (500) feet from another
tower. Any new telecommunications tower in excess of one hundred eighty (180)
feet in height must be located a minimum of one (1) mile from any existing
tower in excess of one hundred eighty (180) feet in height.
      13.   Support facilities can be no more than three hundred fifty (350)
square feet of gross floor area nor more than twelve (12) feet in height per
user. Minimum setback requirements of the zoning district apply to the
accessory support facilities.
   F.   Alternative structures standards. Telecommunications facilities may be
permitted on an alternative tower structure at least thirty (30) feet tall
under the following conditions, which shall be in addition to the requirements
of subsections (E) and (G) of this section:
      1.   The facility and its accessory support facilities comply with all
zoning requirements applicable to the alternate structure and the provisions of
subsection (E) of this section;
      2.   If the facility or an accessory support facility is located upon the
roof of a structure, each such facility shall be set back a distance from the
roof edge at least equal to the height of the telecommunications facility
unless the facilities are screened or camouflaged in a manner that is
compatible with the surrounding property. The top of the antenna or other
facility shall not be more than thirty percent (30%) of the height of the
alternate structure, or seventy-five (75) feet, whichever is less;
      3.   The alternative structure must be similar in color, scale and
character to adjoining buildings or structures or blend with the landscaping
and other surroundings immediately adjacent to them so as to generally avoid
the creation of unique visual objects that stand out in the environment; and
      4.   Prior to the installation of any building/roof mounted
telecommunications facility, the applicant shall furnish to the City a
structural engineer's certification that the building structure will support
and not be adversely affected by the proposed antenna and accessory support
facility or equipment.
   G.   Specific standards.
      1.   All telecommunications facilities shall be erected and operated in
compliance with current Federal Communication Commission (FCC) and Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) rules and regulations and other applicable
federal, state and local standards.
      2.   The tower owner is required to provide documentation that the power
density levels do not exceed federally approved levels or American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) standards, whichever provides the stricter
requirements.
      3.   An applicant must provide a copy of its FCC license or, if the
applicant is not an FCC license holder, a copy of at least one (1) letter of
commitment from an FCC license holder to locate at least one (1) antenna on the
applicant's tower.
      4.   Telecommunication facilities shall not be permitted in any wetland,
floodplain, or wilderness or wildlife area and disturbance to wetland buffer
areas shall be minimized. A telecommunication facility shall not be permitted
in any area where it would threaten endangered species or critical habitats.
Telecommunication facilities shall not be permitted where they would
significantly change surface area, contribute significantly to deforestation or
create significant water diversions. Storm water run-off shall be contained on-
site at all telecommunication facilities. Ground- mounted equipment for
personal wireless service facilities shall not generate noise in excess of
fifty (50) decibels at the property line. Roof- mounted or side-mounted
equipment for personal wireless service facilities shall not generate noise in
excess of fifty (50) decibels at ground level at the base of the building
closest to the antenna.
      5.   Telecommunications tower structures must conform to the post current
revision of EIA 222 standards. Guyed telecommunications towers shall be
designed and located such that, if the structure should fall, it will avoid
habitable structures and public ways (refer to subsection (E)(10) of this
section). The applicant must supply a structural engineer's certification of
the structural integrity of the tower and associated equipment. If more than
one (1) user is involved, the applicant shall supply certification that the
tower has sufficient integrity to accommodate more than one (1) user.
      6.   Telecommunications facilities shall be designed and engineered to
withstand wind loadings and other design standards as defined by BOCA and ANSI
for McClain County, Oklahoma.
   H.   Permit condition.
      1.   No owner or occupant of property within the City shall permit, leave
or cause to be left on said property any telecommunications facility which has
been abandoned or discontinued for use. The provider shall remove its facility
within ninety (90) days of the date that it discontinues its use of the
facility. If the provider fails to remove the facility within the required
time, the facility shall be deemed to be abandoned. The City shall have
authority to enter the premises and remove the abandoned facilities. All costs
of removal shall be collected from the provider in the manner provided for
summary abatement cf nuisance. This requirement shall apply to co-located
facilities unless the co-location agreement provides for the removal of
abandoned facilities by the tower operator.
      2.   Defective or unsafe antennas, telecommunication towers or
telecommunication facilities are to be repaired or removed within ninety (90)
days at the owner or operator's expense. If the facilities are not operated for
a continuous period of twenty-four (24) months they shall be considered
abandoned and must be removed within ninety (90) days. If not removed, the City
may remove at the expense of the owner or operator.
      3.   Any telecommunications towers or telecommunications facilities
existing at the time of the adoption of the ordinance from which this section
is derived and not conforming to its provisions shall be considered legal and
nonconforming. These facilities shall be permitted to remain provided that they
are not:
         a.   Expanded or increased in height;
         b.   Restored after damage or destruction, by any means, exceeding
fifty percent (50%) of the estimated replacement value; and
         c.   A hazard to safety, health or welfare.
   I.   Permit approval process.
      1.   Except for a proposed telecommunications facility which will co-
locate on an existing tower, the applicant for a telecommunications facility
permit shall notify all property owners within three hundred (300) feet of the
outer boundary of the property proposed for location of the facility. Such
notice shall describe the boundaries of the property included in the
application, explain the character and dimensions of the proposed
telecommunications facility and give an address for the property owners to
submit written comments to the applicant. The notice shall include a drawing or
other representation of the visual aspect of the proposed facility. The notice
shall also contain the date, which shall be not less than fifteen (15) days
after the mailing date, set for consideration of the application by the
Planning Commission.
      2.   The permit process will be administered by the Code Enforcement
Department.
      3.   Applicant shall pay a fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to
cover the cost of the permit process. That permit fee is nonrefundable even if
the permit is denied.
      4.   The applicant must submit to the office of the Code Enforcement
Department along with his application, an inventory and contour map of existing
facilities that are within the City within five (5) miles of the City limits,
including specific information about the location, height, coverage, capacity
and design of each telecommunications facility, telecommunication tower and
antenna.
      5.   The Code Enforcement Department will develop, update and maintain an
inventory of towers and antennas.
(Code 1991, § 12-223; Code 2016, § 122-74(3); Ord. No. 99-03, § 1, 1-4-1999;
Ord. No. 01-03, 3-5-2001; Ord. No. 14-07, § 1(ii), 7-7-2014)
CHAPTER 106 TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
ARTICLE 106-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 106-2 ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE 106-3 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT, SIZE
ARTICLE 106-4 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
ARTICLE 106-5 DRIVING; OVERTAKING; PASSING
ARTICLE 106-6 TURNING MOVEMENTS
ARTICLE 106-7 SPEED
ARTICLE 106-8 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
ARTICLE 106-9 PEDESTRIANS
ARTICLE 106-10 BICYCLES
ARTICLE 106-11 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
ARTICLE 106-12 JUNKED, WRECKED VEHICLES
ARTICLE 106-13 RAILROADS
ARTICLE 106-14 USED MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS; AUTOMOTIVE DISMANTLERS; PARTS
RECYCLERS
Cross reference- Courts, Ch.
30; litter from motor vehicles, §
46-197; law enforcement, Ch.
54; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, Ch.
70; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; water, mud from vehicles, §
90-33.
State Law reference- Municipal traffic regulations, 11 O.S. § 22-117 et seq.;
uniformity of motor vehicle law, 47 O.S. § 15-101; local powers as to traffic,
etc., 47 O.S. § 15-102.
ARTICLE 106-1 IN GENERAL
   
106-1   Definitions
   
106-2   Uniform Vehicle Code Adopted
   
106-3   Coasters, Roller Skates, And Similar Devices
   
106-4   Persons Working On Streets, Exceptions
   
106-5   Maintenance And Construction Zones
Sec 106-1 Definitions
   A.   The definitions in 47 O.S. §§ 1-101-1-186 shall be applicable to this
chapter.
   B.   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      1.   Alley means any narrow highway ordinarily located in the interior
portion of platted blocks and ordinarily used for service or delivery purposes
at the rear of stores, dwellings, or buildings.
      2.   Ambulance means a motor vehicle constructed, reconstructed, or
arranged for the purpose of transporting ill, sick, or injured persons.
      3.   Center lane means any clearly marked center lane. If the center lane
is not marked and no cars are parked on the roadway, then the center lane is
equally distanced between the curbs or travelled portion of the roadway. In the
event a vehicle or vehicles are parked on one (1) side of the roadway only,
then the center lane is equally distanced from the side of the parked vehicle
or vehicles toward the street and curb on the opposite roadway. If vehicles are
parked on each side of the roadway, then the center lane is equally distanced
from the edges of the parked vehicles.
      4.   Commercial vehicle means every vehicle designed, maintained, or used
primarily for the transportation of property.
      5.   Controlled access highway means every highway, street, or roadway in
respect to which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in
such manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction
over such highway, street, or roadway.
      6.   Department means the State department of public safety, acting
directly or through its duly authorized officers and agents.
      7.   Double park means parking or stopping a vehicle on the roadway side
of another vehicle already parked adjacent to the edge or curbing of the
roadway.
      8.   Emergency means an unforeseeable occurrence of temporary duration
causing or resulting in an abnormal increase in traffic volume, cessation or
stoppage of traffic movement, or creation of conditions hazardous to normal
traffic movement, including fire, storm, accident, riot, or spontaneous
assembly of large numbers of pedestrians in such a manner as to impede the flow
of traffic.
      9.   Emergency vehicle means vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and ambulances.
      10.   Limit lines means boundaries of parking areas, loading zones, and
non- traffic areas and lines indicating the proper place for stopping where
stops are required.
      11.   Limited access highway. See Controlled access highway.
      12.   Loading zone means a space adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or
material. A freight curb loading zone is a loading zone for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight; a passenger curb
loading zone is a loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers.
      13.   Official time shall mean whenever certain hours are named in this
chapter they shall mean Central Standard Time or daylight savings time, as may
be in current use in the City.
      14.   Public parking lot means a parking lot or right-of-way dedicated to
public use or owned by the State or a political subdivision thereof.
      15.   School zone means all streets or portions of streets immediately
adjacent to a school or school ground where the same is adjacent and for a
distance of three hundred (300) feet in each direction.
      16.   U-turn means a turn by which a vehicle reverses its course of
travel on the same street.
(Code 1991, § 15-103)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Highway Safety Code, definitions, 47 O.S. § 1-101 et seq.
Sec 106-2 Uniform Vehicle Code Adopted
The provisions of the Uniform Vehicle Code (47 O.S. § 1-101 et seq.),
including, but not limited to, the Rules of the Road (47 O.S. § 1-101 et seq.),
are hereby adopted incorporated in this section by reference and are
enforceable by the City within the City limits as fully as if set out at length
in this section.
(Code 1991, § 15-104)
Sec 106-3 Coasters, Roller Skates, And Similar Devices
   A.   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any
skateboard, coaster, toy vehicle, or similar device shall go upon any roadway
except while crossing a street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing, such
person shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
   B.   No person shall ride a skateboard upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   C.   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to have
erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of skateboards
thereon by any person, and when such signs are in place, no person shall
disobey the same.
   D.   Whenever any person is riding a skateboard upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Code 1991, § 15-207)
Sec 106-4 Persons Working On Streets, Exceptions
Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this chapter, except
those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not
apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street or to persons, motor vehicles, and
other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance, or repair
of public utilities. All street or highway and public utility operations shall
be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices, or flag persons. The
provisions of this chapter shall apply to any of the persons and vehicles
exempted by this section when traveling to and from such work.
(Code 1991, § 15-209)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-105.
Sec 106-5 Maintenance And Construction Zones
   A.   Authority for closure. City personnel or contractors, while repairing
or improving the streets of the City, and City personnel and utility companies,
when installing, improving, or repairing lines or other utility facilities in
the streets, are hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the City
Manager, to close any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair,
maintenance, or construction. In exercising this authority, the appropriate
personnel, contractor, or utility company shall erect or cause to be erected
proper control devices and barricades to warn and notify the public that the
street has been closed to traffic.
   B.   Driving onto closed streets prohibited; exceptions. When any street has
been closed to traffic under the provisions of subsection (A) of this section
and traffic control devices or barricades have been erected, it is unlawful for
any person to drive any vehicle through, under, over, or around such traffic
control devices or barricades or otherwise to enter the closed area. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons entering the closed
area or zone for the protection of lives or property. Persons having their
places of residence or places of business within the closed area may travel,
when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   C.   Traffic control devices required; obedience. Whenever construction,
repair, or maintenance of any street or utility line or facility is being
performed under traffic, the City personnel, contractor, or utility company
concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic control devices to warn
and guide the public. Every person using the street shall obey all signs,
signals, markings, flag persons, or other traffic control devices which are
placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic through the construction or
maintenance area.
   D.   Determination of speed. Where any street in the City limits shall be
under construction or repair or a detour shall have been designated by reason
of construction or repairs in progress and the City shall have determined a
maximum safe, careful, and prudent speed on the street or detour during the
period of the construction or repairs and shall have plainly posted at each
terminus thereof the determined maximum speed, no person shall drive any
vehicle upon the portion of the street or upon the detour at a speed in excess
of the speed so determined and posted.
   E.   Doubling of fines. Violation of the posted speed limit in the
maintenance or construction zone may result in the doubling of the appropriate
fine. For purposes of this section, "maintenance or construction zone" means
any location where maintenance or construction work is actually in progress and
workers present.
(Code 1991, § 15-210; Ord. No. 01-08, §§ 1, 2, 8-6-2001)
ARTICLE 106-2 ENFORCEMENT
   
106-31   Penalties
   
106-32   Enforcement Of Traffic Laws
   
106-33   Direction Of Traffic; By Hand Or Voice
   
106-34   Same; By Unauthorized Persons
   
106-35   Obedience To Police And Fire Officials
   
106-36   Emergency And Experimental Regulations
   
106-37   Issuance Of Citation Tags
   
106-38   Disposition And Records Of Traffic Citations And Complaints
   
106-39   When Copies Of Citations Shall Be Deemed A Lawful Complaint
   
106-40   Failure To Obey Promise To Appear
   
106-41   Compliance With Citations Attached To Vehicle
   
106-42   Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
   
106-43   Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citations
   
106-44   Violation By Parent Of Child Or By Owner Of Vehicle
Sec 106-31 Penalties
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter or who performs any unlawful act as defined in this
chapter, or who fails to perform any act required by this chapter, shall be
guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided
in Section 1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 15-1402)
Sec 106-32 Enforcement Of Traffic Laws
It is the duty of the officers of the Police Department or any officers that
are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all traffic laws of this City
and all the State vehicle laws applicable to traffic in this City. Officers of
the department shall make arrests for traffic violations, investigate
accidents, and cooperate with other officers in the administration of the
traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions and
to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the department by this chapter
and any other traffic ordinances of this City. Officers may issue written
notice to appear to any driver of a vehicle involved in an accident when, based
on personal investigation, the officer has reasonable and probable grounds to
believe that the person has committed an offense under the provisions of the
traffic code in connection with the accident.
(Code 1991, § 15-201)
Sec 106-33 Direction Of Traffic; By Hand Or Voice
   A.   Officers of the Police Department or any officers designated by the
Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand, or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   B.   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity.
(Code 1991, § 15-202)
Sec 106-34 Same; By Unauthorized Persons
No unauthorized person shall direct or attempt to direct traffic, except in
case of emergency where no officer is present.
(Code 1991, § 15-203)
Sec 106-35 Obedience To Police And Fire Officials
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(Code 1991, § 15-204)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-103.
Sec 106-36 Emergency And Experimental Regulations
   A.   The City Manager, subject to any directions which the Council may give
by motion or resolution, is empowered to adopt regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of this City and to make
temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than ninety (90) days.
   B.   The City Manager may have traffic control devices tested under actual
conditions of traffic.
(Code 1991, § 15-205)
Sec 106-37 Issuance Of Citation Tags
   A.   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this chapter by delivering citation tags to violators
or, in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation
of this chapter, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation the occurred. Such citation tags, among other things, shall bear
briefly the charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and
shall direct the violator to present the tag at the police station or other
designated place within the time as may be specified thereon.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
   C.   The City Manager may require that the police officers use citation tags
furnished by the City Clerk and that such tags are serially numbered, and may
regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(Code 1991, § 15-220)
Sec 106-38 Disposition And Records Of Traffic Citations And Complaints
   A.   Delivery to superior officer, Municipal Court, and central records
section; retention in citation book and delivery to City Clerk. Every police
officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged violator of any provision
of this traffic ordinance shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of
the citation to an immediate superior officer who, shall cause the original to
be delivered to the Municipal Court of the City and the duplicate copy to the
central records section of the Police Department.
   B.   Disposition or dismissal. Upon the filing of such original citation in
the Municipal Court of this City, the citation may be disposed of by the City
Attorney, by trial in the court or by other official action by a judge of the
court, including the settlement of bail or the payment of a fine, or may be
dismissed by the judge, in his opinion the actions complained of do not
constitute a violation of traffic ordinances.
   C.   Return to Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall require the return
to him of each traffic citation and all copies thereof except that copy
required to be retained in the book as provided in this section, which has been
spoiled or upon which an entry has been made, and has not been issued to an
alleged violator.
   D.   Chief to maintain record of disposition. The Chief of Police shall also
maintain or cause to be maintained in connection with every traffic citation
issued by a member of the Police Department a record of the disposition of the
charge by the Municipal Court of the City.
   E.   Chief to maintain record of warrants, traffic fines, and final
disposition of warrant. The Chief of Police shall also maintain or cause to be
maintained a record of all warrants issued by the Municipal Court of the City,
all the traffic fines which are delivered to the Police Department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrant.
   F.   Inappropriate disposal deemed official misconduct. It is unlawful and
official misconduct for any member of the Police Department or other officer of
public employ to dispose of, alter, or deface any traffic citation or any copy
thereof or the record of issuance of any traffic citation, complaint, or
warrant in any manner other than is required in this section.
(Code 1991, § 15-221)
Sec 106-39 When Copies Of Citations Shall Be Deemed A Lawful Complaint
In the event the form of citation provided in this section includes information
and is sworn to, then such citation, when filed with the Municipal Court, shall
be deemed to be a lawful complaint for the purpose of prosecution under this
chapter.
(Code 1991, § 15-222)
Sec 106-40 Failure To Obey Promise To Appear
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his written promise to
appear given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation regardless
of the disposition of the charge for which citation was originally issued.
(Code 1991, § 15-223)
Sec 106-41 Compliance With Citations Attached To Vehicle
If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of days as specified on the
citation, the Clerk of the Municipal Court may send to the owner of the motor
vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the
violation and warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for the
specified period of days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion
where two (2) or more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same
motor vehicle and the traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of
arrest may be issued without
sending the letter provided in this section. (Code 1991, § 15-224)
Sec 106-42 Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   B.   The presumption in subsection (A) of this section shall apply only when
the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
(Code 1991, § 15-225)
Sec 106-43 Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citations
It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any
traffic citation in any manner other than is provided by this chapter.
(Code 1991, § 15-226)
Sec 106-44 Violation By Parent Of Child Or By Owner Of Vehicle
   A.   It is an offense against the City for the parent of any child or for
the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   It is an offense for any person to authorize or knowingly to permit any
vehicle registered in his name to be driven or to stand or to be parked in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1991, § 15-1401(B), (C))
ARTICLE 106-3 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT, SIZE
   
106-71   Vehicles Or Objects Injurious To Street
   
106-72   Obstructive And Dangerous Vehicles
State Law reference- Equipment of vehicles, 47 O.S. § 12-101 et seq.
Sec 106-71 Vehicles Or Objects Injurious To Street
No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street.
(Code 1991, § 15-301)
Sec 106-72 Obstructive And Dangerous Vehicles
No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
Chief of Police and in accordance with the terms of such permit.
(Code 1991, § 15-302)
ARTICLE 106-4 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
   
106-96   Authority Of City Manager
   
106-97   Uniform Requirements
   
106-98   Obedience To Official Traffic Control Devices
   
106-99   When Official Traffic Control Devices Required For Enforcement
Purposes
   
106-100   Designation Of Crosswalks And Safety Zones
   
106-101   Traffic Lanes
   
106-102   Corner Cutting Prohibited To Avoid Devices
Sec 106-96 Authority Of City Manager
The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the City Council by motion
or resolution, shall have placed and maintained traffic control signs, signals,
and markings when and as required under the traffic ordinances of this City to
make effective the provisions of such ordinances and may have placed and
maintained such additional traffic control signs, signals, and markings as he
may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of this
City or under State law or to guide or warn traffic.
(Code 1991, § 15-601)
State Law reference- Traffic control devices, 47 O.S. § 11-201 et seq.
Sec 106-97 Uniform Requirements
All traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications for a uniform system of traffic control device adopted by the
State transportation commission.
(Code 1991, § 15-602)
Sec 106-98 Obedience To Official Traffic Control Devices
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject
to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
chapter.
(Code 1991, § 15-603)
State Law reference- Drivers to obey traffic control devices, 47 O.S. § 11-201.
Sec 106-99 When Official Traffic Control Devices Required For Enforcement
Purposes
No provision of this chapter for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official traffic control device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic control
devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no official
traffic control devices are erected or in place.
(Code 1991, § 15-604)
Sec 106-100 Designation Of Crosswalks And Safety Zones
The City Manager, subject to any direction given by the City Council, may:
   A.   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such
other places as he may deem necessary; and
   B.   Establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Code 1991, § 15-613)
Sec 106-101 Traffic Lanes
The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the City Council, may be
authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street where a
regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
(Code 1991, § 15-614(A))
State Law reference- Driving on roadways laned for traffic, 47 O.S. § 11-309.
Sec 106-102 Corner Cutting Prohibited To Avoid Devices
No driver shall drive through a service station driveway or other driveway or
private property so as to avoid the use of a street or traffic control device.
(Code 1991, § 15-615)
ARTICLE 106-5 DRIVING; OVERTAKING; PASSING
   
106-126   Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession
   
106-127   Drivers In A Procession
   
106-128   Overtaking And Passing In School Zones
   
106-129   Driving On Sidewalk
   
106-130   Careless Or Negligent Driving, Stopping, Or Parking
   
106-131   Full Time And Attention
   
106-132   Driving In A Careful And Prudent Manner
   
106-133   Speed Contests Prohibited
   
106-134   Permits Required For Parades And Processions
   
106-135   Starting Parked Vehicle
   
106-136   Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
   
106-137   Unlawful Riding
   
106-138   Service Drives
   
106-139   Truck Driving And Route Restrictions
   
106-140   Through Streets
   
106-141   Intersections Where Stop Or Yield Required
   
106-142   Vehicles Entering Traffic From Parking
   
106-143   Stop When Traffic Obstructed
   
106-144   Obedience To Signal Indicating Approach Of Train
   
106-145   Seat Belts And Child Passenger Restraints Required
   
106-146   Texting While Driving Prohibited
Sec 106-126 Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or
other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously identified as required in this chapter. This provision shall not
apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals
or police officers.
(Code 1991, § 15-510)
State Law reference- Powers of local authorities to regulate processions, 47
O.S. § 15-102.
Sec 106-127 Drivers In A Procession
Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the right-
hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
close as is practical and safe.
(Code 1991, § 15-511)
Sec 106-128 Overtaking And Passing In School Zones
   A.   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in motion
and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the hours
posted on all days when schools are in session.
   B.   Wherever a school zone is located on a multiple-lane street which is
divided into three (3) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic or where the
right half of the roadway has been divided into two (2) or more lanes or on
one-way streets, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being
driven in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane
movement.
(Code 1991, § 15-513)
Sec 106-129 Driving On Sidewalk
No person shall drive any vehicle over or upon any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Code 1991, § 15-516)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 106-130 Careless Or Negligent Driving, Stopping, Or Parking
It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be parked,
or stop any vehicle:
   A.   In a careless manner;
   B.   In a negligent manner;
   C.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property; or
   D.   In such a manner or condition as to interfere with the lawful movement
of traffic or use of the streets.
(Code 1991, § 15-523)
Sec 106-131 Full Time And Attention
The operator of every vehicle while driving upon the streets and highways of
the City shall devote full time and attention to such driving.
(Code 1991, § 15-524)
Sec 106-132 Driving In A Careful And Prudent Manner
Any person driving a vehicle on a public road or way shall drive the same in a
careful and prudent manner and at a careful and prudent speed not greater than
nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface, and width of the public way and any other conditions then existing.
(Code 1991, § 15-525)
Sec 106-133 Speed Contests Prohibited
   A.   No person shall engage in, aid, or abet any motor vehicle speed contest
or exhibition of speed on any street or highway.
   B.   No person shall for the purpose of facilitating or aiding or as an
incident to any motor vehicle speed contest upon any street or highway in any
manner obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction upon any street or
highway.
   C.   When three (3) or more persons assemble to witness or participate in an
unlawful speed contest, such assembly is an unlawful assembly and any person
who participates in such unlawful assembly is guilty of an offense.
(Code 1991, § 15-528)
Sec 106-134 Permits Required For Parades And Processions
No procession or parade containing two hundred (200) or more persons or fifty
(50) or more vehicles, except the military forces of the United States and the
military forces of this State, shall occupy, march, or proceed along any street
except in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and such other
regulations as are set forth in this chapter which may apply.
(Code 1991, § 15-529)
State Law reference- Power of local authorities to regulate processions, 47
O.S. § 15- 102.
Sec 106-135 Starting Parked Vehicle
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Code 1991, § 15-531)
Sec 106-136 Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Code 1991, § 15-534)
Sec 106-137 Unlawful Riding
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Code 1991, § 15-535)
Sec 106-138 Service Drives
It is unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle through a service drive
situated at a street intersection within the City unless the operator of such
vehicle transacts business on the premises where such service drive is located.
(Code 1991, § 15-537)
Sec 106-139 Truck Driving And Route Restrictions
The City Manager, subject to such directions as the City Council may give, may
prescribe routes through the City for the use of trucks in general, trucks of
particular kinds, or other vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger
vehicles passing through the City. Appropriate and adequate signs shall be
placed along such routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the
routes. When such signs are so erected and in place, the driver of a truck or
other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed, as provided in this
section, while passing through the City, shall keep on such route and shall not
deviate therefrom except in case of emergency. Drivers of such vehicles shall
follow such routes so far as practicable also when driving within the City and
not merely through the City.
(Code 1991, § 15-538)
Sec 106-140 Through Streets
   A.   The City Manager, subject to such direction as the City Council may
give, may designate any street or part of a street a through street.
   B.   Whenever the City Manager designates and describes a through street,
the stop sign, or yield sign if deemed more appropriate, shall be placed and
maintained on every street intersecting a through street or intersecting that
portion thereof, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled at all times
by traffic control signals.
   C.   At the intersection of two such through streets or at the intersection
of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs
shall be erected at the approaches of either of the street as may be determined
by the City Manager if deemed desirable.
(Code 1991, § 15-545)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 106-141 Intersections Where Stop Or Yield Required
The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the City Council by motion
or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections
upon other than through streets where particular hazards exist and to determine
whether:
   A.   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event he shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
   B.   Vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different street
as provided in this chapter, in which event he shall cause to be erected a
yield sign at every place where yield is required.
(Code 1991, § 15-546)
Sec 106-142 Vehicles Entering Traffic From Parking
Any vehicle attempting to reenter traffic while parked at the curb shall yield
the right-of- way to oncoming traffic in the street approaching from the rear.
The parked vehicle shall proceed into the line of traffic only after the driver
has given the appropriate signal which indicates his intention of turning from
the curb and into the line of traffic. The vehicle shall in no event enter the
line of traffic until the driver has ascertained that no hazard exists.
(Code 1991, § 15-551)
Sec 106-143 Stop When Traffic Obstructed
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
(Code 1991, § 15-553)
Sec 106-144 Obedience To Signal Indicating Approach Of Train
   A.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within fifty (50) feet but not less than fifteen (15)
feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and shall not proceed until he can
do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flag person gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      3.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand five
hundred (1,500) feet of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such
distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
      4.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(Code 1991, § 15-554)
Sec 106-145 Seat Belts And Child Passenger Restraints Required
   A.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
this City shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208. For the purposes of this section,
"passenger car" shall mean "vehicle" as defined in 47 O.S. § 1102, except that
"passenger car" shall not include trucks, truck-tractors, recreational
vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles or vehicles used primarily for farm
use and licensed pursuant to State law, 47 O.S. § 1134. Violation of this
subsection shall be considered in and of itself as grounds for stopping a
vehicle if that is the only violation observed by the officer.
   B.   Subsection (A) shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a
passenger car in which either the operator or passenger possess written
verification from a physician licensed in this State that he or she is unable
to wear a safety belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of such a
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a seat belt system.
Subsection (A) shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who is a route
carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
   C.   Every driver when transporting a child under four (4) years of age in a
motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of this City shall
provide for the protection of the child by properly using a child passenger
restraint system or a properly secured seat belt in the rear seat of the motor
vehicle. For purposes of this subsection, "child passenger restraint system"
means an infant or child passenger restraint system that meets the federal
standards for crash-tested restraint systems as set by the United States
Department of Transportation. Children four (4) years of age and above shall be
protected by the use of a child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to:
      1.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to State
or federal laws;
      2.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      3.   A driver of a vehicle if all of the, seat belts in the vehicle are
in use; and
      4.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable to
be placed in such devices.
A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if it appears
that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this subsection.
The officer shall have the option of advising the driver of the possible danger
to children resulting from the failure to install or use a child passenger
restraint system or seat belts in the motor vehicle or issue a ticket for such
violation. A violation of the provisions of this subsection shall not be
admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages. In any
action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal injuries or wrongful
death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure of any person to have
the infant properly restrained in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of damages.
   D.   Any person convicted of violating subsection (A) shall be punished by a
fine and costs as allowed by State law.
   E.   Any person convicted of violating subsection (C) shall be punished by a
fine and costs as allowed by State law. This fine shall be suspended in the
case of the first offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition by loan of a
child passenger restraint system.
(Code 1991, § 15-556; Ord. No. 91-2101, § 2, 6-3-1991; Ord. No. 97-13, § 1, 1-
5-1998; Ord. No. 06-04, § 1, 3-6-2006)
Editor's note- Ord. No. 06-04, § 1, adopted March 6, 2006, changed the title of
§ 106-145 from "Seat belts" to "Seat belts and child passenger restraints
required."
Sec 106-146 Texting While Driving Prohibited
   A.   Definitions.
      1.   Cellular telephone means an analog or digital wireless telephone
authorized by the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency
bandwidth reserved for cellular telephones.
      2.   Compose, send or read with respect to a text message means the
manual entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any
person or device.
      3.   Electronic communication device means an electronic device that
permits the user to manually transmit a communication of written text by means
other than through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not
include a device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor
vehicle or a voice-operated global positioning or navigation system that is
affixed to a motor vehicle, or a hands-free device that allows the user to
write, send or read a text message without the use of either hand except to
activate, deactivate or initiate a feature or function; and
      4.   Text message includes a text-based message, instant message,
electronic message, photo, video or electronic mail.
   B.   Texting while driving prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate a motor vehicle on any street or highway within the City of Purcell
while using a hand-held electronic communication device to manually compose,
send or read an electronic text message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   C.   Penalty. Any person who violates the provisions of subsection (B) of
this section shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court costs.
   D.   Exceptions. The provisions of subsection (B) of this section shall not
apply if the person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication
device for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following
regarding an imminent emergency situation:
      1.   An emergency response operator;
      2.   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
      3.   A provider of ambulance services;
      4.   A provider of firefighting services; or
      5.   A law enforcement agency.
   E.   Pre-existing rights of action preserved. The amendment or repeal of any
ordinance by the enactment of the ordinance from which this section is derived
shall not impair, alter, or affect any rights, right of action or cause of
action, whether now pending in any court or not, which are now existing or
which may arise or come into existence, before the date when the ordinance from
which this section is derived becomes effectual.
(Ord. No. 15-07, §§ 1-5, 11-2-2015)
ARTICLE 106-6 TURNING MOVEMENTS
   
106-171   Turning Markers Or Indicators
   
106-172   Designation Of Restricted Turns
   
106-173   U-Turns
Sec 106-171 Turning Markers Or Indicators
   A.   The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the City Council
by motion or resolution, is authorized to place markers, buttons, or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at such intersections. The course to be traveled, as so
indicated, may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   B.   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(Code 1991, § 15-901)
Sec 106-172 Designation Of Restricted Turns
The City Manager is hereby authorized to determine those street intersections
at which drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left, or U-turns and shall
have proper signs placed at the intersections. The making of the turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours. Where
turns are restricted during certain hours pursuant to this section, the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when turns are
permitted.
(Code 1991, § 15-902)
Sec 106-173 U-Turns
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in the City at the following locations:
      1.   At intersections controlled by traffic control devices or signals
unless such turns are specifically authorized;
      2.   Where a police officer is directing traffic except at the latter's
direction; or
      3.   At any other location where an official "No U-turn" sign has been
placed and is maintained.
   B.   A U-turn may be made only when it can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic. No person shall make a U-turn except in the
following manner:
      1.   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the right
curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to give a signal
for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make the turn across
the intersection;
      2.   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the vehicle;
      3.   By yielding the right-of-way at all times to all vehicles until such
turn in completed; and
      4.   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle.
(Code 1991, § 15-904)
ARTICLE 106-7 SPEED
   
106-201   Speed Limits Generally; Exceptions
   
106-202   School Zones
   
106-203   Obedience To Maximum And Minimum Speed Limits
State Law reference- Speed restrictions, 47 O.S. § 11801 et seq.; local
authority to set speed limits, 47 O.S. §§ 11-803, 15-102.
Sec 106-201 Speed Limits Generally; Exceptions
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than twenty-five (25)
miles per hour upon any street or highway within the City except:
      1.   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this Code;
or
      2.   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted.
   B.   The City Manager may reduce or increase the speed limits provided in
this Code by the appropriate placement of signs on such streets or parts of
streets indicating a lower or higher speed limit.
(Code 1991, § 15-401)
Sec 106-202 School Zones
No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than that posted speed per hour
between the hours posted on any street adjacent to any school in a designated
school zone on days when school is in session unless a different speed limit or
time is otherwise designated and posted.
(Code 1991, § 15-402)
Sec 106-203 Obedience To Maximum And Minimum Speed Limits
Where official signs and markings give notice of both maximum and minimum speed
limits in effect on any street, no vehicle shall be driven at rates in excess
of the maximum nor slower than the minimum except as required by an authorized
officer or in obedience to posted official signs.
(Code 1991, § 15-405)
ARTICLE 106-8 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
DIVISION 106-8-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 106-8-2 LOADING
DIVISION 106-8-1 GENERALLY
   
106-226   Illegal Parking Declared Public Nuisance
   
106-227   Application Of Standing Or Parking Regulations
   
106-228   Parking Time Limits May Be Established; Signs
   
106-229   Parking More Than Seventy-Two (72) Hours
   
106-230   Brakes; Motor Not To Be Left Running
   
106-231   Signs Or Marking Indicating Angle Parking
   
106-232   Obedience To Angle, Parking Signs Or Markings
   
106-233   Parking In Spaces Marked Off
   
106-234   Permits For Loading Or Unloading At An Angle To The Curb
   
106-235   Hazardous Or Congested Places; Stopping, Standing, Parking
   
106-236   Stopping, Standing, Or Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
   
106-237   Standing Or Parking; On One-Way Roadway
   
106-238   Same; On Left Side Of One-Way Streets
   
106-239   Parking Adjacent To Schools
   
106-240   Parked Vehicles Not To Extend Too Far Into Street
   
106-241   Parking Prohibited On Narrow Streets
   
106-242   Parking In Alleys, Blocking Driveways
   
106-243   Entry On Private Property; Trespass; Evidence; Burden Of Proof
   
106-244   Truck Parking Prohibited In Certain Areas
   
106-245   Double Parking
   
106-246   Parking Prohibited For Trucks Transporting Hazardous Materials
   
106-247   Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
   
106-248   Method Of Parking, Standing Or Parking Close To Curb
   
106-249   Negligent Parking
   
106-250   Right-Of-Way To Parallel Parking Space
Sec 106-226 Illegal Parking Declared Public Nuisance
Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this article governing,
limiting, or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any street or
public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, and
each separate traffic citation issued as authorized in this division for such
violation shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or operator
of such vehicle.
(Code 1991, § 15-701)
Sec 106-227 Application Of Standing Or Parking Regulations
The provisions of this article shall not be applicable when it is necessary for
a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
(Code 1991, § 15-702)
Sec 106-228 Parking Time Limits May Be Established; Signs
The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the City Council by motion
or resolution may establish parking time limits or prohibit parking on
designated streets or parts of streets and have appropriate signs placed on the
streets. When the signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle in violation of such signs. By virtue of enacting this section:
   A.   Parking shall be restricted to employees of the City of Purcell on the
east side of the 100 block of South 3rd Avenue between City Hall and the South
Alley at any time.
   B.   The City Manager is further directed to obtain and install signs
reflecting the policies set forth herein at such places as the City Manager
deems it appropriate.
(Code 1991, § 15-703)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 21-05 on 4/5/2021
Amended by Ord. 21-06 on 5/3/2021
Amended by Ord. 21-11 on 12/6/2021
 
Sec 106-229 Parking More Than Seventy-Two (72) Hours
No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer than
twenty-four (24) hours. The parking of a vehicle for more than seventy-two (72)
hours shall constitute prima facie evidence of abandonment of the vehicle.
(Code 1991, § 15-704)
Sec 106-230 Brakes; Motor Not To Be Left Running
Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked.
(Code 1991, § 15-705)
Sec 106-231 Signs Or Marking Indicating Angle Parking
The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the City Council by motion
or resolution, shall determine upon what streets and parts of streets angle
parking shall be permitted and shall have such streets marked or signed.
(Code 1991, § 15-706)
State Law reference- Angle parking, 47 O.S. § 11-1004(c).
Sec 106-232 Obedience To Angle, Parking Signs Or Markings
On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
(Code 1991, § 15-707)
Sec 106-233 Parking In Spaces Marked Off
In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off and not on or over a line delimiting a space.
(Code 1991, § 15-708)
Sec 106-234 Permits For Loading Or Unloading At An Angle To The Curb
   A.   The City Manager is authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permits may be issued to either the owner or the lessee of real property
or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the privilege as
therein stated and authorized in this section. The City Manager may revoke such
permits at any time.
   B.   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(Code 1991, § 15-709)
Sec 106-235 Hazardous Or Congested Places; Stopping, Standing, Parking
   A.   The City Manager is hereby authorized to determine and regulate by
proper signs the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles when such stopping,
standing, or parking would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
   B.   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, as
authorized in subsection (A) of this section, no person shall violate such
signs.
(Code 1991, § 15-710)
Sec 106-236 Stopping, Standing, Or Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, park a trailer of any kind whether
attached to or unattached from a vehicle or part a vehicle, except in
emergencies or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the law or the directions of a police officer or traffic
control device in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area, or between the sidewalk and the
street;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant except in a parking space
officially marked;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty (20) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty (30)
feet of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      10.   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy-five (75) feet of the entrance when properly sign-posted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; or
      15.   In another property owner's private driveway or along the property
line of another person's private residence without the property owner or the
current occupant's approval.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a curb.
(Code 1991, § 15-711; Ord. No. 13-12, § 1, 6-3-2013)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1003.
Sec 106-237 Standing Or Parking; On One-Way Roadway
   A.   If a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one (1) direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
   B.   The City Council may determine when standing or parking may be
permitted upon the left hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect
signs giving notice thereof.
(Code 1991, § 15-713)
Sec 106-238 Same; On Left Side Of One-Way Streets
The City Manager may have signs erected upon the left-hand side of any one-way
street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles. When the signs are in
place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of any such signs.
(Code 1991, § 15-714)
Sec 106-239 Parking Adjacent To Schools
   A.   The City Manager may have signs erected indicating no parking upon
either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such
parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation.
   B.   No person shall park a vehicle in violation of any such signs.
(Code 1991, § 15-715)
Sec 106-240 Parked Vehicles Not To Extend Too Far Into Street
No vehicle shall be parked at an angle on a street so that it or its load will
extend more than fifteen (15) feet from the curb or edge of the roadway towards
the center of the roadway. No vehicle shall be parked parallel to the curb or
edge of the roadway so that it or its load shall extend more than nine (9) feet
from the curb or edge toward the center of the roadway.
(Code 1991, § 15-716)
Sec 106-241 Parking Prohibited On Narrow Streets
   A.   The City Manager is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no
parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty
(20) feet, or upon one (1) side of a street as indicated by such sins when the
width of the roadway does not exceed thirty (30) feet.
   B.   When such signs are so erected and in place, no person shall park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such sign.
(Code 1991, § 15-717)
Sec 106-242 Parking In Alleys, Blocking Driveways
No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than twenty (20) feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position
as to block a driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Code 1991, § 15-718)
Sec 106-243 Entry On Private Property; Trespass; Evidence; Burden Of Proof
   A.   No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon real property owned
or legally occupied by another without the owner's or occupant's consent except
where such private property is provided as public parking and the general use
of the property is not restricted by signs or proper markings.
   B.   Where entry is made upon real property owned or legally occupied by
another without the owner's or occupant's consent, except on unrestricted
public parking, and is complained of by the owner or legal occupant of the
premises, the burden is put upon the person making the entry to show that
permission for such entry was given.
(Code 1991, § 15-719)
Sec 106-244 Truck Parking Prohibited In Certain Areas
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park any commercial
vehicle or trailer of all types, including travel, camping, and hauling, in
excess of twenty-four (24) feet in length on any public street in a residential
district.
(Code 1991, § 15-720)
Sec 106-245 Double Parking
   A.   No driver shall double park or double stop a vehicle under the
following conditions:
      1.   Within fifty (50) feet of an intersection except alley intersections
or within ten (10) feet of an alley intersection;
      2.   Opposite a double parked or double stopped vehicle across the
street;
      3.   When such double parking or double stopping would or does block or
interfere materially with the normal movement of traffic;
      4.   When parking space adjacent to the curb is available;
      5.   When directed by a police officer to move on; or
      6.   In any position other than parallel to the curb and within two (2)
feet of the adjacent vehicle parked next to the curb.
   B.   A driver may double park or double stop a vehicle only as authorized in
this section. There must be a licensed driver in any vehicle while it is double
parked or double stopped.
   C.   A driver may double stop for the purpose of, but only while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, subject,
however, to all the general conditions set out in this division.
   D.   A driver may double park for the purpose of, but only while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of merchandise, subject,
however, to all the general conditions set out in this division. No such
vehicle shall be double park longer than ten (10) minutes.
(Code 1991, § 15-721)
Sec 106-246 Parking Prohibited For Trucks Transporting Hazardous Materials
It is unlawful to park, store, or otherwise let stand a truck or other vehicle
which is used for the purpose of transporting or delivering flammable and
combustible liquids as defined by the City's fire prevention code and trucks or
other vehicles which are used for the transportation and delivery of liquefied
petroleum gases in any area within the City. However, the trucks and vehicles
restricted in this section may be temporarily parked at locations otherwise
zoned for the purpose of loading and unloading flammable and combustible
liquids and liquefied petroleum gases for a period not to exceed one and one-
half (1 1/2) hours during any twenty-four (24) hour period.
(Code 1991, § 15-722)
Cross reference- Environment, Ch.
34.
Sec 106-247 Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of:
   A.   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   B.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   C.   Washing, cleaning, or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Code 1991, § 15-723)
Sec 106-248 Method Of Parking, Standing Or Parking Close To Curb
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked
with the right- hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within eighteen (18)
inches of the right hand curb. Any vehicle stopped or parked upon the left-hand
side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs shall be parked or
stopped with the left-hand wheels parallel to and within eighteen (18) inches
of the left-hand curb.
(Code 1991, § 15-724)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1004.
Sec 106-249 Negligent Parking
No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop, or leave unattended any vehicle
as follows:
   A.   In a careless or negligent manner;
   B.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property; or
   C.   In such manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic or
use of the streets.
(Code 1991, § 15-725)
Sec 106-250 Right-Of-Way To Parallel Parking Space
   A.   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking space
where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by another
vehicle shall stop his vehicle to the rear of the parking space until the
vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic. He then shall be
deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space over any other vehicle
attempting to park therein.
   B.   The first of two (2) or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of an
unoccupied parallel parking space, where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy, shall be deemed to have the right-of-way to such parking space.
(Code 1991, § 15-726)
DIVISION 106-8-2 LOADING
   
106-276   Definitions
   
106-277   Curb Loading Zones; Designation
   
106-278   Loading Zones To Be Used Only For Designated Purpose
   
106-279   Stopping, Standing, Or Parking; In Passenger Curb Loading Zone
   
106-280   Same; In Commercial Curb Loading Zone
   
106-281   Designation Of Public Carrier Stops And Stands
   
106-282   Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands Restricted
   
106-283   Stopping, Standing, And Parking Of Buses And Taxis
Sec 106-276 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Commercial vehicle means:
      1.   A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name of the owner
or his business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly used during
normal business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight
and which bears a regular State commercial license tag; and
      2.   A passenger vehicle used regularly and actually engaged during
normal business hours in the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight
and which bears a special-numbered license plate issued by the City at the rear
of the vehicle attached to the State license plate together with an identically
numbered decal, issued for the vehicle;
   B.   Freight loading zones means all curb loading zones authorized and
regularly used exclusively for the loading and unloading of merchandise for
storage, trade, shipment or resale.
   C.   Passenger loading zones means all loading zones authorized and used
regularly and exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers except
bus stops, taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier
vehicles.
(Code 1991, § 15-801)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec 106-277 Curb Loading Zones; Designation
   A.   The City Manager, subject to any directions given by the City Council
by motion or resolution, may determine the location of passenger and freight
curb loading zones and shall have placed and maintained appropriate signs
indicating the zones and stating the hours during which the provisions of this
section are applicable.
   B.   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of signs erected
in accordance with this section.
   C.   If any loading zone is established on request of any person, the signs
shall not be placed until the applicant pays to the City an amount of money
estimated by the City Council to be adequate to reimburse the City for all
costs of establishing and signing the same.
(Code 1991, § 15-802)
Sec 106-278 Loading Zones To Be Used Only For Designated Purpose
No curb loading zone authorized and established as a passenger loading zone
shall be used as a freight loading zone, and no freight loading zone shall be
used as a passenger loading zone except as may be specifically provided by law.
(Code 1991, § 15-803)
Sec 106-279 Stopping, Standing, Or Parking; In Passenger Curb Loading Zone
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a passenger curb loading zone
for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers during the hours when the regulations applicable to
such curb loading zones are effective and then only for a period not to exceed
three (3) minutes.
(Code 1991, § 15-804)
Sec 106-280 Same; In Commercial Curb Loading Zone
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a commercial curb
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials during hours when the
provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the stop
for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. Vehicles
using any commercial loading zone shall be subject to the licensing
requirements and regulations provided by this chapter.
   B.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to enter the zone.
(Code 1991, § 15-805)
Sec 106-281 Designation Of Public Carrier Stops And Stands
The City Manager may establish loading zones for common carriers, including,
but not limited to, bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands, and stands for other
passenger common carrier motor vehicles on such public streets in such places
and in such number as he shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and
convenience to the public. Every such loading zone shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
(Code 1991, § 15-806)
Sec 106-282 Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands Restricted
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop
or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been
officially designated and the appropriate signs are in place. The driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Code 1991, § 15-807)
Sec 106-283 Stopping, Standing, And Parking Of Buses And Taxis
   A.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided in this
section.
   B.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
except in a bus stop, stand, or loading zone designated as provided in this
section, except in case of an emergency.
   C.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right-
front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen (18) inches from the curb
and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the
movement of other vehicular traffic.
   D.   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided in
this section. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(Code 1991, § 15-808)
ARTICLE 106-9 PEDESTRIANS
   
106-306   Pedestrians Soliciting Rides, Business Or Donations
State Law reference- Pedestrians' rights and duties, 47 O.S. § 11-501 et seq.
Sec 106-306 Pedestrians Soliciting Rides, Business Or Donations
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, donation, employment, or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall:
      1.   Stand in any street, roadway, or park and stop or attempt to stop
and engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting
contributions or the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about
to be parked on a street;
      2.   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any vehicle;
      3.   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill, any political campaign literature, any sample,
souvenir, or gift; or
      4.   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway,
attempt to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar
purpose.
(Code 1991, § 15-1007)
ARTICLE 106-10 BICYCLES
   106-331   Speed Of Bicycle
   
106-332   Parking
   
106-333   Riding On Sidewalks
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
State Law reference- Operation of bicycles, 47 O.S. § 11-1201 et seq.
Sec 106-331 Speed Of Bicycle
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code 1991, § 15-1106)
Sec 106-332 Parking
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against the building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code 1991, § 15-1109)
Sec 106-333 Riding On Sidewalks
   A.   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   B.   The City Council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to have
erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles
thereon by any person, and when such signs are in place, no person shall
disobey the same.
   C.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Code 1991, § 15-1110)
ARTICLE 106-11 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
   
106-361   Purpose And Effect Of Impoundment Provisions
   
106-362   Place Of Impoundment
   
106-363   Duration Of Impoundment
   
106-364   Police Granted Authority To Impound Vehicles
   
106-365   Disabled Vehicles
   
106-366   Vehicles On Bridge
   
106-367   Arrest And Detention Of Driver Of Vehicle
   
106-368   Vehicle Constitutes Traffic Hazard
   
106-369   Illegal Trespass By Vehicle
   
106-370   Vehicles Parked Overtime
   
106-371   Vehicles Blocking Fire Exits Or Hydrants
   
106-372   Vehicles Parked In Intersection
   
106-373   Stolen Vehicles; Recovery By Police
   
106-374   Vehicles With Outstanding Traffic Citations
   
106-375   Inventory Prior To Removal
State Law reference- Abandonment of vehicles, 47 § 901 et seq.; wreckers and
towing services, 47 O.S. § 951 et seq.; removal of vehicles from real property
or roadway, 47 §§ 954A, 955.
Sec 106-361 Purpose And Effect Of Impoundment Provisions
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety, welfare, and the safeguarding of property and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Code 1991, § 15-1301)
Sec 106-362 Place Of Impoundment
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the City.
(Code 1991, § 15-1302)
Sec 106-363 Duration Of Impoundment
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority
of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release
is received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau or other
authorized Police Department employee.
   B.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release issued of all impoundment costs
and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
(Code 1991, § 15-1302)
Sec 106-364 Police Granted Authority To Impound Vehicles
Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances enumerated in
this article. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter.
(Code 1991, § 15-1304)
Sec 106-365 Disabled Vehicles
A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   A.   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   B.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Code 1991, § 15-1305)
Sec 106-366 Vehicles On Bridge
An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, or causeway or in any tube
or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hazard,
may be impounded.
(Code 1991, § 15-1306)
Sec 106-367 Arrest And Detention Of Driver Of Vehicle
Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest
and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which leaves
or will leave a vehicle unattended on any City street, highway, or other
parking area the vehicle was driven onto by the driver immediately upon leaving
a City street or highway, the vehicle may be impounded. The vehicle shall not
be impounded if the parking area is located on property owned or controlled by
the driver or person in charge of the vehicle.
(Code 1991, § 15-1307; Ord. No. 02-11, § 1(15-1307), 7-15-2002)
Sec 106-368 Vehicle Constitutes Traffic Hazard
A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley, or thoroughfare and so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Code 1991, § 15-1308)
Sec 106-369 Illegal Trespass By Vehicle
   A.   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this chapter may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   B.   If a violation of the provisions of this chapter occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner's or legal occupant's property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   C.   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this
chapter have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Code 1991, § 15-1309)
Sec 106-370 Vehicles Parked Overtime
Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one (1) hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this chapter regarding more than forty-eight
(48) hours shall be impounded.
(Code 1991, § 15-1310)
Sec 106-371 Vehicles Blocking Fire Exits Or Hydrants
Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device, or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
(Code 1991, § 15-1311)
Cross reference- Fire prevention and protection, Ch.
38.
Sec 106-372 Vehicles Parked In Intersection
Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Code 1991, § 15-1312)
Sec 106-373 Stolen Vehicles; Recovery By Police
   A.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered owner
cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one (1) hour or cannot
be determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in the
vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen cars,
the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of impoundment and
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department.
   B.   If the registered owner is identified, located, and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one (1)
hour from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Code 1991, § 15-1313)
Sec 106-374 Vehicles With Outstanding Traffic Citations
Any vehicle for which two (2) or more citations have been issued for violation
of an ordinance and have not been presented as required may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Code 1991, § 15-1314)
Sec 106-375 Inventory Prior To Removal
Prior to removal for impoundment of any vehicle, a member of the Police
Department will inventory all items in the vehicle.
(Code 1991, § 15-1315)
ARTICLE 106-12 JUNKED, WRECKED VEHICLES
   
106-401   Definitions
   
106-402   Penalty
   
106-403   Nuisance
   
106-404   Automobile Wrecking Or Salvage Yards
   
106-405   Junk Vehicle On Private Property Prohibited
   
106-406   Impoundment; Release
   
106-407   Leaving Junked Vehicle On Street
   
106-408   Junk Vehicles Nuisance; Removal
   
106-409   Notice
   
106-410   Removal
   
106-411   Recovery By Owner
   
106-412   Sale
State Law reference- Junk dealers, 21 O.S. § 1041 et seq. and 59 O.S. § 1401 et
seq.; storage or accumulation of wrecked or abandoned motor vehicle or parts
thereof within view of preexisting residence or adjoining property, 21 O.S. §
1048; abandonment of vehicles, 47 O.S. § 901 et seq.; removal of abandoned
motor vehicle from real property, 47 O.S. § 954A; vehicle on highway, ground
for removal, 47 O.S. § 955; Oklahoma Junkyard and Scrap Metal Processing
Facility Control Act, 69 O.S. § 1251 et seq.
Sec 106-401 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Automobile wrecking or salvage yard means an area outside of a building
where motor vehicles are disassembled, dismantled, junked, or wrecked, or where
motor vehicles not in operable conditions, or used parts of motor vehicles, are
stored.
   B.   Junked motor vehicle means any motor vehicle, which does not have
lawfully affixed thereto an unexpired license plate or plates and the condition
of which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative,
unserviceable, abandoned, or discarded.
   C.   Motor vehicle means any vehicle that is self-propelled and designed to
travel along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles,
buses, motor bikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts,
golf carts, campers and trailers.
   D.   Private property means any real property within the City which is
privately owned and which is not public property as defined in this section.
   E.   Public property means any street, alley, or highway which shall include
the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly owned or
maintained for the purposes of vehicular travel and shall also mean any other
publicly owned property or facility.
(Code 1991, § 8-302(1), (2), (4), (5))
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec 106-402 Penalty
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be punished as
provided in Section
1-12 of this Code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1991, § 8-312)
Sec 106-403 Nuisance
Motor vehicles which are abandoned, dismantled, partially dismantled, wrecked,
junked, inoperative, discarded, or left about the City in places other than
authorized junkyards or other areas authorized by the City Council and which
tend to do anyone or more of the following are hereby declared to be a
nuisance:
   A.   Impede traffic in the streets;
   B.   Reduce the value of private property;
   C.   Create fire hazards;
   D.   Extend and aggravate urban blight; or
   E.   Result in a serious hazard to the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, and welfare of the residents of the City.
(Code 1991, § 8-301)
Cross reference- Nuisances, §
34-56 et seq.
Sec 106-404 Automobile Wrecking Or Salvage Yards
   A.   The operation and maintenance of automobile wrecking or salvage yards
within the City limits would tend to cause the conditions enumerated in Section
106-403, and in addition, would tend to attract person seeking outlets for
stolen goods.
   B.   In order to protect the public interest for reasons that include, but
are not limited to, those referred to in subsection (A) of this section, the
operation and maintenance of automobile wrecking or salvage yards within the
City limits are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and are hereby
prohibited, except as may be allowed under
Chapter 122.
(Code 1991, § 8-303)
Sec 106-405 Junk Vehicle On Private Property Prohibited
No person in charge or control of any property within the City, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked, or unlicensed vehicle to remain on
such property longer than seven (7) days and no person shall leave any such
vehicle on any property within the City for a longer time than seven (7) days.
This section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building,
a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place
and manner when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise, or a
vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the City.
(Code 1991, § 8-304)
Sec 106-406 Impoundment; Release
   A.   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove and
impound vehicles in violation of this article and under any of the
circumstances enumerated in this article.
   B.   Prior to removal for impoundment of any vehicle, a member of the Police
Department will inventory all items in the vehicle.
(Code 1991, § 8-305)
Sec 106-407 Leaving Junked Vehicle On Street
No person shall leave any junked motor vehicle on any street, highway, or alley
within the City limits of the City.
(Code 1991, § 8-306)
Cross reference- Streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
Sec 106-408 Junk Vehicles Nuisance; Removal
The accumulation or storage of one (1) or more junked motor vehicles or parts
thereof shall constitute a nuisance detrimental to the health, safety, and
welfare of the inhabitants of the City. It is the duty of the owner or person
in control of such vehicle, or the parts thereof, or the owner of the private
property, lessee, or person in possession or control of the property upon which
such vehicle is located, to cause to be removed or remove the vehicle from such
property or have the vehicle housed in a building where it will not be visible
from the street or other private property. Such removal or enclosure shall be
made within seven (7) calendar days after notice is given to the owner or
person in control of the vehicle or the owner, lessee, or person in control of
the property upon which such vehicle is located. The time limit may be extended
by the City Manager or his designee in the case of obvious hardship.
(Code 1991, § 8-307)
Sec 106-409 Notice
The Chief of Police, the Health Officer, or any officer of the Health
Department he may assign, upon complaint of any citizen or on the officer's own
volition, shall cause notice to be posted on such junked motor vehicle that the
vehicle is a nuisance and shall be removed within the time limit as required in
Section
106-405.
(Code 1991, § 8-308)
Sec 106-410 Removal
Upon any failure of the owner or person in control of the junked motor vehicle
or the owner, lessee, or person in control of the property upon which the
junked motor vehicle may be located to remove the vehicle or place it in an
enclosed building within the time limit after notice has been placed on the
vehicle, the Health Officer, the Police Department, or any officer of that
department the Health Officer may assign, shall notify, in writing, to the
Police Department of the City which shall promptly cause the vehicle and its
parts to be removed and stored in a proper place.
(Code 1991, § 8-309)
Sec 106-411 Recovery By Owner
The owner or person in control of any vehicle so removed may regain possession
thereof by making application to the Chief of Police within sixty (60) days
after its removal and upon payment to the City of all reasonable costs of
removal and storage which shall have accrued to such vehicle.
(Code 1991, § 8-310)
Sec 106-412 Sale
If no claim for the junked motor vehicle is made within sixty (60) days after
removal by the City, the vehicle may be sold for the best price obtainable as
junk or otherwise and the proceeds shall be used first to pay all reasonable
removal or storage fees against the vehicle.
(Code 1991, § 8-311)
ARTICLE 106-13 RAILROADS
   
106-436   Duties As To Paving, Street Improvements
   
106-437   Sidewalks To Be Constructed By Railroads
   
106-438   Trespassing On Trains
Editor's note- Sections 16-104 and 16-105 of the former City Code have been
deleted. The subject of such sections are controlled by the Federal Railroad
Safety Act (45 USC 421 et seq.). As to former § 16-105, see CSX Transportation,
Inc., v. City of Plymouth, Michigan, 86 F.3d 626 (6th Cir. 1996).
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 36-116.
Sec 106-436 Duties As To Paving, Street Improvements
   A.   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks running
in the general direction of the street, either on or adjacent thereto, the
railway company shall improve the space between its tracks and two (2) feet on
either side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to
be improved or with such other material as the Council by motion or resolution
may approve. Where any railway company occupies an alley with its track or
tracks, the company shall be required to improve, gutter, drain, and grade such
alley and shall surface or pave it with the same material that is to be, or has
been, used on the alley or with such other satisfactory material as the Council
by motion or resolution may approve. Where any railway company crosses any
street that is being or has been paved, the railway company shall pave so much
of the street as may be occupied by its track or tracks and two (2) feet on
each side, and when more than one (1) track crosses the street within a
distance of one hundred (100) feet, measuring from inside rail to inside rail,
the railway company shall grade, gutter, drain, curb, pave, chat, gravel, or
improve between its tracks in the same manner as the City may be improving or
has improved the other portion of the street. Provided, however, any Council
may, at the time of the construction of the tracks, the granting of any street
railway franchise, or at the time of the publication of the resolution waive
any or all of the requirements of this subsection if it deems it to be in the
best interests of the City to do so.
   B.   Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in a
good state of repair at all times.
(Code 1991, § 16-101)
Sec 106-437 Sidewalks To Be Constructed By Railroads
Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights-of-way using
the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the streets when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company shall
keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times.
(Code 1991, § 16-102)
Sec 106-438 Trespassing On Trains
Any person, other than a railway employee in the discharge of his duty, who,
without authority from the conductor of the train, rides or attempts to ride on
top of any car, coach, engine, or tender on any railroad in this City, or on
the draw heads between the cars, or under cars or truss-rods or trucks, or in
any freight car, or on the platform of any baggage car, express car, or mail
car, or any train in this City, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1991, § 16-103)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1365.
ARTICLE 106-14 USED MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS; AUTOMOTIVE DISMANTLERS;
PARTS RECYCLERS
   
106-451   Used Motor Vehicle Dealers And Automotive Dismantlers And Parts
Recyclers
Editor's note- Ord. No. 03-04, § 1, adopted August 4, 2003, enacted provisions
intended for use as § 7-10. To preserve the style of this Code, and at the
discretion of the editor, said provisions have been re-designated as Article
XIV, § 106-451.
Sec 106-451 Used Motor Vehicle Dealers And Automotive Dismantlers And Parts
Recyclers
   A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm, association,
corporation or trust to sell, offer for sale, or display for sale one (1) or
more used motor vehicles within the City, without first obtaining a license
therefore from the appropriate State authorities as set forth in 47 O.S. § 581
et seq., or amendments thereto. It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
owner of real property, lessee of real property, or person having an interest
in real property to allow the sale, or display for sale, of one (1) or more
used motor vehicles within the City unless said property is zoned for such use.
Provided that this section shall not apply to any person making such use of
their own personal residence, and involving no more than one (1) vehicle
licensed in their own name as owner.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and constitute an offense for any person, firm,
association, corporation or trust to fail to show a valid State license under
Title 47 O.S., upon the request of any properly identified officer or employee
of the City.
   C.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm, association,
corporation or trust to violate any of the provisions of the Automotive
Dismantlers and Parts Recycler Act, also known as 47 O.S. § 591.1 et seq.,
within the City limits.
   D.   Each day during which any of the above business operations are
conducted in violation of this section shall be considered a separate offense;
each successfully consummated transaction during which the provisions of this
section are violated shall constitute a separate offense.
   E.   Members of the Police Department or code enforcement officers are
hereby authorized to remove a vehicle from any property to a garage or other
place of safety when such vehicle has been parked on more than one (1) occasion
for the principle purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale in violation of
this chapter or the City Zoning Code. City personnel shall be required to show
that an official notice, warning, citation, or warrant has been issued by the
City for the vehicle involved prior to the incident for which the vehicle is to
be towed.
   F.   The prohibition contained in subsection (A) shall not apply to
mortgagees or secured parties who are selling motor vehicles which were
collateral on a mortgage or security agreement if:
      1.   Such mortgages or secured parties do not realize for their own
account from such sales any monies in excess of the outstanding balance secured
by such mortgage or security agreement, plus costs of collection; and
      2.   The sale is conducted as a lawful secondary use on such mortgagees'
or secured parties' business property.
(Ord. No. 03-04, § 1, 8-4-2003)
CHAPTER 110 UTILITIES
ARTICLE 110-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 110-2 PURCELL PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY RULES AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 110-3 DRAINAGE STANDARDS
Editor's note- The City has leased the operation of its water, sewer, electric,
and refuse systems to the Purcell Public Works Authority, including setting
rates for use of the systems and all regulations governing them. The City has
adopted such regulations by reference in § 17-102 of the former City Code.
Pursuant to instructions from the City, the regulations are to be formatted,
edited, etc. and included at length in the new Code book. See also the Purcell
Public Works Authority Trust Indenture in a separate volume entitled "The
PPWA."
Cross reference- Administration, Ch.
2; electricity, §
14-266 et seq.; businesses, Ch.
18; environment, Ch.
34; floods, Ch.
42; health and sanitation, Ch.
46; manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62; natural resources, Ch.
66; tampering with or damage public utilities, §
70-36; planning, Ch.
82; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; subdivisions, Ch.
94; water and sewerage improvements in subdivisions, §
94-241 et seq.; drainage improvements in subdivisions, §
94-276 et seq.; utilities tax, §
98-26 et seq.; telecommunications, Ch.
102.
State Constitution reference- Franchises, OK Const. Art 18, § 5 et seq.
State Law reference- Utilities, 11 O.S. § 22-104; utility relocations, 11 O.S.
§ 32-104; public utilities, 11 O.S. § 35-101 et seq.; sewer and water systems,
11 O.S. § 37-101 et seq.; solid waste disposal site near highway, 21 O.S. §
1205; local solid waste management systems, 27A DB, §§ 2-10-901, 2-10-1001;
waters and water rights, 82 O.S. Supp. No. 2.
ARTICLE 110-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 110-2 PURCELL PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY RULES AND REGULATIONS
DIVISION 110-2-1 GENERALLY
DIVISION 110-2-2 WATER DEPARTMENT AND SERVICES
DIVISION 110-2-3 SEWER SYSTEM AND SERVICES
DIVISION 110-2-4 ELECTRIC SYSTEM
DIVISION 110-2-5 GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE
DIVISION 110-2-1 GENERALLY
   
110-26   Declaration Of Public Utility
   
110-27   Definitions
   
110-28   Utility Fees And Billings
   
110-29   Utility Taps And Connections; Fees; Utility Deposits
   
110-30   Failure To Pay Utility Bills; Penalty; Disconnection Of Service
   
110-31   Other Utility Fees And Charges
   
110-32   Personnel May Inspect Private Premises
   
110-33   Liability For Service
   
110-34   Penalty
Sec 110-26 Declaration Of Public Utility
The water system, sanitary sewer system, electric utility system, broadband
wireless system and the refuse and garbage collection system of the City are
hereby declared public utilities and a proper source of revenues and
expenditures for the upkeep and maintenance of such systems and for other
purposes, under the direct supervision, control, and responsibility of the City
Public Works Authority.
Sec 110-27 Definitions
The following terms, when used in this article, shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section unless the context clearly
requires otherwise:
   A.   Ashes means and includes the residue from substances used for fuel in
connection with ordinary conduct of heating and cooking and also such refuse as
broken crockery, glass, metal other than tin cans, and other similar items
which may not be suitable for burning in an incinerator, but which may be
dumped with ashes.
   B.   Authority means the Purcell Public Works Authority.
   C.   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) means the quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure five
(5) days at twenty (20) degrees centigrade expressed in terms of weight and
concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   D.   Broadband wireless means direct high speed internet service and will
adhere to and be subject to, all policies and procedures for all City public
works authorities as set forth in this article.
   E.   Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five (5) feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   F.   Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the
public sewer or other place of disposal.
   G.   City means the corporate limits of the City of Purcell, Oklahoma.
   H.   Combined sewer means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   I.   Commercial unit means all premises other than those defined as
"residential units."
   J.   Council means the City Council of the City of Purcell, Oklahoma.
   K.   Garbage means and includes kitchen and table refuse, offal, and every
accumulation of animal and vegetable matter that attends the preparation, decay
of, dealing in, or storage of, meats, fruits, vegetables, and other provisions
for human subsistence.
   L.   Industrial waste means the liquid wastes from industrial processes, as
distinct from sanitary sewage.
   M.   Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface water or groundwater.
   N.   Person extends and is applied to an actual person or persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and
corporate or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any of
them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
   O.   pH means the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration
of hydrogen ions expresses in grams per liter of solution.
   P.   Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half (½) inch in
dimension.
   Q.   Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights and is controlled by public authority.
   R.   Refuse includes garbage, trash, rubbish, and solid wastes.
   S.   Residential unit means any single-family dwelling or any single-family
unit, whether located in a separate structure, apartment, group of rooms or
residences, having a single kitchen, which is connected with a City water meter
and which is not using such water meter in connection with, or in conjunction
with, another family dwelling or unit. Included in this definition are
churches, schools, and government consumers.
   T.   Sanitary sewer means a sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   U.   Sewage means a combination of the water carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
   V.   Sewage treatment plant means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
   W.   Sewage works means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating,
and disposing of sewage.
   X.   Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   Y.   Storm sewer and storm drain mean a sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial
wastes.
   Z.   Superintendent means the person designated by the authority to
supervise the operation of publicly owned treatment works (POTW) and who is
charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his duly
authorized representative.
   AA.   Suspended solids means solids that either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   AB.   Trash means and includes paper, rags, containers of paper, wood or
tin, tin cans, yard and house sweepings, and all other household wastes except
tree trimmings, building and manufacturing wastes, sewage, garbage and ashes as
defined in this section, grasses, weeds, leaves, and rocks.
   AC.   User means any person who contributes, causes, or permits the
contribution of wastewater into the authority's POTW.
   AD.   Wastewater means the liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic
wastes from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and
institutions together with such groundwater, surface water and stormwater which
may be present, whether treated or untreated which is contributed into or
permitted to enter the POTW.
   AE.   Watercourse means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   AF.   Waters of the State means all streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through, or border upon the State or any portion
thereof.
Cross reference- Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec 110-28 Utility Fees And Billings
All fees and charges in connection with any customer's use of the sanitary
sewer system, the water facility system, the collection and disposal of refuse
and garbage, or the electrical service system are billed in accordance with
applicable rates set by resolution of the authority. A copy of the current fees
and charges shall be kept on file in the authority's office. All fees and
charges owing for any of these utility services shall be billed monthly. The
utility bill submitted under the terms of this section are payable on or before
the past due date which is printed on the bill.
Sec 110-29 Utility Taps And Connections; Fees; Utility Deposits
   A.   Water taps. A water tap is essentially the right to receive water from
the Public Works Authority and is a physical connection between the authority's
main and the private line which includes installation of meters and hardware.
All water taps are to be made by the authority or an authorized developer or a
licensed plumber, and to ensure proper installation and health standards are
met a final inspection by a City Inspector is required. All work is to be in
accordance to City Code and State health standards.
   B.   Sewer taps. A sewer tap is essentially the right to discharge
wastewater into the authority's wastewater system and is a physical connection
between the authority's main and the private line which includes installation
of fittings and hardware. All sewer taps are to be made by the authority, an
authorized developer, or a licensed plumber, and to ensure that proper
installation and health standards are met a final inspection by a City
Inspector. All work is to be in accordance to City Code and State health
standards.
   C.   Requests for connection. The authority shall approve any request for
water tap and connection, a sewer tap on an existing line or a sewer tap on a
new line, and any electrical service connection. Prior to granting this
approval, the customer shall have paid the deposit and connection or tap charge
as applicable. Taps must be physically completed and, as appropriate, the meter
installed within one (1) year of the purchase date or fees will be forfeited.
Applicable minimum monthly billing will commence once the tap is completed.
   D.   Reconnection. A fee for reconnection of utility service due to turn-off
or a meter disconnected by the authority for any reason shall be set by
resolution by the authority.
   E.   Deposit. Any person desiring to secure utility services from the
authority shall make application therefor, accompanied by the required deposit,
to the authority on an application form to be provided. The applicant shall
give such reasonable information as the authority may request. The applicant
agrees, by making such application, that he will abide by all ordinances,
rules, and regulations governing the utility systems. The deposit shall serve
as a guarantee for the payment of charges for utility service and other amounts
owed in connection with the utility service. Deposit amounts shall be set by
resolution of the authority. The deposit shall be held in trust by the
authority. When a customer's utility service is disconnected, the deposit or
any part of such amount deposited which remains after all such charges and
amounts due the authority have been satisfied shall be returned to the customer
or to the authority if unclaimed by the customer after notice as required by
law.
      1.   Letter of credit. The authority will accept a letter of credit for
residential and commercial customers with twelve (12) months' consecutive
service with another electrical utility indicating no more than one (1) late
payment and no return checks during the twelve (12) month period. If the new
account becomes delinquent to the point of disconnection of service or has
checks for payment returned, the authority will require the appropriate deposit
posted to maintain utility services with the authority.
      2.   Return of deposits. The authority will refund deposits to customers
with twenty-four (24) consecutive months of service if no late charges,
deferrals, or returned checks have been incurred during the twenty-four (24)
month period ending December 1. Any person receiving a security deposit refund
and is delinquent to the point of disconnection within a twelve (12) month
period shall be required to post the appropriate deposit to maintain utility
services with the authority.
   F.   Discontinue services. If at any time the person making the deposit
should desire to discontinue the use of utility services, he shall notify the
authority secretary- treasurer in writing and shall accompany his application
with all arrears, if any, in excess of the deposit amount.
Sec 110-30 Failure To Pay Utility Bills; Penalty; Disconnection Of Service
   A.   Failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility bill for any
utility services pursuant to this section by the past due date which is printed
on the bill will result in the following actions and penalties:
      1.   A penalty on all amounts owing on a utility bill may be added to any
utility bill which is not paid by the past due date printed on the bill;
      2.   Within seven (7) days from receipt of the penalty notice, the
authorized agents of the authority may disconnect or discontinue any or all
utility services to the customer after mailing or posting written notice to the
customer of the intent to disconnect or discontinue any or all of the utility
services.
   B.   If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to this
section, the authority, or its agents, shall not reconnect or reestablish the
service until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is paid,
plus the penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or
expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service.
   C.   All utility bills for water, sewer, garbage, or electricity shall be
due and payable on or before the due date set out in the statement furnished to
the customer.
      1.   Deferral of payment. One deferral arrangement is allowed in a twelve
(12) month period. The deferral must be completed prior to disconnect date and
is in effect for five (5) days thereafter.
      2.   Denial of service. The authority may refuse service to a customer
when there remains an unpaid account balance for services previously provided.
Also, the unpaid account balance will be transferred to any open account, if
applicable. The authority shall not be required to provide service to an
applicant who uses an alias, trade name, business name, or the name of a
relative or other person as a devise to escape payment of an unpaid obligation.
The authority may require, to maintain service, payment of unpaid utility bills
of another person when a previous customer with an unpaid account remains an
occupant or user of the authority at the same utility address. Further, the
authority may refuse service to any renter when the property owner has an
outstanding balance for utilities, until such time as the unpaid obligation is
paid. The authority may require photo identification of any customer receiving
service from the authority. The authority may request a renter to provide a
copy of the signed lease, rental agreement, or letter from the landlord. The
property owner or landlord may guarantee in writing a portion of, or all of the
required deposit. If the account is disconnected for nonpayment, the property
owner or landlord becomes personally responsible for the unpaid account. No
additional service will be provided on the property until the delinquent
account is satisfied.
      3.   Returned checks. If the authority receives three (3) returned checks
on any utility customer during a twelve (12) month period, all payment
transactions for that customer will be required to be made by cash or money
order only.
      4.   Delinquency cutoff. All accounts shall be subject to disconnection
of service for nonpayment five (5) days after penalty assessment. Penalties are
assessed the first working day after the tenth day following mailing of the
utility bills. Accounts with a deferral arrangement are subject to
disconnection of services ten (10) days after penalty assessment. If a landlord
becomes delinquent on an account and is subject to disconnect, or final bills
are not paid by the due date, the appropriate deposit and connect fee will be
required until the account has a favorable twelve (12) month credit history
without penalties, disconnects or returned checks.
      5.   Theft of service or meter tampering. A deposit for an amount, at the
discretion of the authority, above the stated deposit may be required for
service to be connected at any address, active or inactive, if theft of utility
service or meter tampering has occurred. Requests for deviations from the
policies stated in this section will be considered based upon demonstrated
verifiable need at the discretion of the secretary of the authority or
designee.
Sec 110-31 Other Utility Fees And Charges
The authority from time to time, by motion or resolution, has the power to
establish rates and charges governing all aspects of the utility services,
including monthly service fees, connection fees and charges, and deposits. All
payments and/or fees due to the authority shall be satisfied before service
from the authority is provided.
Sec 110-32 Personnel May Inspect Private Premises
All authorized employees or agents of the authority shall, upon presentation of
proper credentials, have free access at all reasonable hours to any premises
supplied with water services, sewer services, or electrical current from the
authority utility systems for the purpose of making inspections, observations,
measurements, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of these
rules and regulations. Failure to provide free access could result in the
authority requiring, at the customer's expense, to move services to an
accessible location.
Sec 110-33 Liability For Service
   A.   Each person receiving utility service shall be liable to the authority
for all utilities used according to rates and charges established by the
authority.
   B.   All water and electric current used for building or construction
purposes shall be charged against the property upon which it is used and the
owner thereof, and all delinquent and unpaid charges therefor shall become a
lien upon the premises supplied and be collected in the manner as other
delinquent and unpaid charges for such service.
Sec 110-34 Penalty
Any person violating the regulations in this article shall, upon conviction in
municipal court, be punished as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code, in addition to any other actions and remedies available.
DIVISION 110-2-2 WATER DEPARTMENT AND SERVICES
   
110-61   Application For Water Service
   
110-62   One (1) Premises To A Tap; Subsidiary Connection And Cross Connection
Prohibited
   
110-63   Turning On Water; Permit
   
110-64   Water May Be Cut Off
   
110-65   Water To Be Turned Back On Only By Authority
   
110-66   Customers To Keep Service Pipes In Good Repair
   
110-67   Discontinuance Of Service, Notice
   
110-68   Accounts Against The Number Of Property And Premises Described;
Exception
   
110-69   Right Reserved To Shut Off Water
   
110-70   Waste Of Water Prohibited
   
110-71   Meters; Estimate Of Bill
   
110-72   Testing Meters
   
110-73   Water Shortages, Declaration Of Emergency
   
110-74   Restriction On Water Use In Emergency
   
110-75   Proclamation And Notice Of Emergency
   
110-76   Grievances With Water Restrictions
   
110-77   Rural Water
Sec 110-61 Application For Water Service
Any person making application for water service or posting a deposit with the
authority, as set forth in Section
110-29 of these rules and regulations, shall be deemed to have applied also for
sewer and garbage service and shall be considered a customer of the authority
until such time as water service to such customer has been discontinued.
Sec 110-62 One (1) Premises To A Tap; Subsidiary Connection And Cross
Connection Prohibited
Not more than one (1) premises may be connected to anyone tap. No customer
shall make or permit to be made a subsidiary connection of another premise with
his water service. A cross connection with another water supply shall not be
permitted. The authority may require separate service for separate premises,
buildings, or houses.
Sec 110-63 Turning On Water; Permit
It is unlawful for any person to turn the water on to any premises from the
City water system except by permission of the authority. Water shall not be
turned on until the plumbing has been installed and is in operation as provided
by ordinance and until any and all deposits and charges have been paid. No
person may connect with the water system until all fees are paid and the
application is filed and a permit is issued to the applicant. All tapping shall
be done by the authority. Any such connection shall meet the requirements of
the City's plumbing code and other applicable requirements.
Sec 110-64 Water May Be Cut Off
Water may be cut off and service discontinued for any user of water from the
City water system for any of the following reasons:
   A.   Violation of any ordinance provision relating to the water system or
violation of any ordinance provision or any provision of any code adopted by
reference relating to water and sanitary plumbing;
   B.   Any act or omission in regard to the water system or sanitary sewer
system, the use of water, or the disposal of liquid wastes, which jeopardizes
the public health and safety, creates a public nuisance, or interferes with the
rights of others; or
   C.   Failure to pay a utility bill or other proper charge in connection with
the utilities by the time the bill becomes delinquent.
Sec 110-65 Water To Be Turned Back On Only By Authority
When the water of any customer has been turned off by authority personnel, it
shall not again be turned on except by permission of the authority.
Sec 110-66 Customers To Keep Service Pipes In Good Repair
   A.   All customers using water shall keep their service pipes, stop cocks,
and other water apparatus in good repair and in proper operation.
   B.   Adjustments to accounts for water leaks will only be made after
investigation and consideration by the general manager of the Purcell Public
Works Authority and must meet the following criteria:
      1.   The consumption of a leak must be at least three (3) times the
customer's average gallons of usage for a single month, based on the previous
twelve (12) months of records.
      2.   Adjustments will only be considered for unforeseen leaks due to
broken water lines.
      3.   Proof of repair with a receipt for materials and any plumbing labor
must be provided.
      4.   The Purcell Public Works Authority Water Department Supervisor will
inspect the completed repair work to determine qualification for an adjustment.
      5.   Adjustments will only be made to a single month's billing in a seven
(7) year period.
      6.   Customers will be required to pay the amount of the average billing
of water and sewer for the previous twelve (12) months plus fifty percent (50%)
of the overage caused by the water leak.
(Ord. No. 12-02, 3-5-2012)
Sec 110-67 Discontinuance Of Service, Notice
   A.   Whenever the owner or occupant of any premises connected with the water
system desires to discontinue the use of water, he shall notify the authority
in writing, unless otherwise approved by the authority, and thereupon the
authority shall disconnect the premises concerning which notice of
discontinuance has been given.
   B.   It is unlawful for any owner of any premises connected with the water
supply system to disconnect the water on the premises unless he shall have
first filed a written request that the service of water to the premises be
discontinued and shall pay all arrearages on water rates on the premises.
   C.   When the water has been shut off from any premises upon application of
the owner or occupant of the premises or for the nonpayment of water charges,
or for any other cause, it is unlawful for any person to again connect such
premises with water except upon application to and by the authority.
Sec 110-68 Accounts Against The Number Of Property And Premises Described;
Exception
All accounts for water shall be kept against the number of the premises and
property described for which the service was installed. However, any tenant and
any person holding under lease may be supplied with water on their own account
when proper application is made, and in such cases, the authority shall require
such deposit of money with the authority as shall be necessary to protect the
authority against any and all delinquent or unpaid charges for water or for
other delinquent and unpaid charges for such service.
Sec 110-69 Right Reserved To Shut Off Water
The authority reserves the right, at all times, without notice, to shut off the
water supply for repairs, extensions, nonpayment of rates, or any other reason;
and the authority shall not be responsible for any stoppages or interruptions
of water supply or for any other damage resulting from the shutting off of
water. The authority is not liable for damage due to the failure of the water
system, whether caused by accidental, natural or other causes.
Sec 110-70 Waste Of Water Prohibited
It is unlawful for any person to waste water or allow it to be wasted from
imperfect or leaking stops, valves, pipes, closets, faucets or other fixtures
or to use water closets without self-closing valves, or to use water for
purposes other than those named in the original application upon which water
rates are based, or to use it in violation of any provision of this chapter.
Sec 110-71 Meters; Estimate Of Bill
   A.   Installation of meters. The authority shall install a meter on the
service of every person using water.
   B.   Ownership of meters. All meters put in by the authority shall be owned
and remain the property of the authority and shall not be removed unless the
use of water on the premises be entirely stopped or service connections
discontinued or abandoned.
   C.   Water to pass through meter. No person shall obtain any water from the
water system except when the same shall pass through a properly installed
meter.
   D.   Placement. Water meters shall be placed as near as possible and
convenient to the curb or the property line of the property served thereby.
Residential and commercial property meters may be placed between the curb and
the sidewalk or between the sidewalk and the property line. All locations shall
be approved by the authority.
   E.   Protection. Every water meter shall be protected at all times from
freezing or other injury. In case an injury occurs, the authority will make
repairs at its own cost, except in cases of neglect of the owner or occupant,
in which case the authority will make the repair at the cost of the owner or
occupant of the premises served. A failure to keep the water box covered shall
not be the neglect of the authority, but of the user, and freezing repairs due
to the same shall be at the cost of the owner or occupant.
   F.   Placement of yard hydrants. No yard hydrant shall be placed nearer than
ten (10) feet of any water meter. In no case shall a yard hydrant be placed so
that the drainage therefrom will run toward or into the meter pit.
   G.   Repair and replacement. By all cases where meters are lost, injured, or
broken by carelessness of negligence of the owners or occupants of premises,
they shall be repaired or replaced by the authority, and the cost shall be
charged against the owner or occupant.
   H.   Improper registration of meter. In the event of the meter getting out
of order or failing to register properly, the consumer shall be charged on an
estimate based on the average monthly consumption during the last three (3)
months the same was in good order, or from what may be the most reliable data
at the command of the authority.
   I.   Multiple meters. In all cases where the consumer's piping or plumbing
is divided, necessitating the use of two (2) or more meters, each meter shall
be handled and regarded as for separate and distinct consumer, to each of which
shall apply the regular water rates and minimum charges until such time as such
plumbing or piping is so arranged as to permit the use of but one (1) meter.
Under no circumstance shall consumption shown by two (2) or more meters in use
by the same consumer be added or lumped together in order to reduce the net sum
due the authority.
Sec 110-72 Testing Meters
   A.   When the accuracy of the record of the water meter is questioned by the
consumer, it shall be removed and tested.
   B.   If the test discloses an error against the consumer of more than two
percent (2%), the authority may bear the entire expense of the test; on the
other hand, where no such error is found, the person who requested the test
shall pay the charge fixed by the authority, based on the actual time required
to make such test.
   C.   Before making a test of any meter the person requesting such test shall
make a deposit to the authority of the amount charged for such test, same to be
fixed by the authority, based on the actual time required to make such test.
   D.   No meter shall be removed nor in any way disturbed or the seal broken
except in the presence or under the control and direction of the authority.
Sec 110-73 Water Shortages, Declaration Of Emergency
   A.   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity, or failure of
equipment or material, the City Manager is hereby authorized to restrict or
prohibit the use of water from the water system.
   B.   An emergency exists whenever the City Manager reasonably determines
that the water system is unable or will within sixty (60) days become unable to
supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof, including
adequate fire protection.
Sec 110-74 Restriction On Water Use In Emergency
   A.   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the City Manager
shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with
particularity an order restricting use of water from the system. The order may:
      1.   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
      2.   Prohibit usage not essential to public health and safety. The order
may be revised from time to time as the City Manager deems necessary.
   B.   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for thirty (30) days or until such time as the
City Manager shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has
ended, whichever is shorter, unless the authority by resolution approved by a
majority of all its members votes to terminate the emergency and proclamation
upon a different date.
Sec 110-75 Proclamation And Notice Of Emergency
   A.   The proclamation required by the preceding section shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the City or, if there is no such
newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within twenty-four (24)
hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy of the
proclamation in ten (10) prominent places in the City. The emergency shall be
in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with this
section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   B.   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in subsection
(A) of this section is used, the proclamation shall be republished in
accordance with subsection (A) within twenty-four (24) hours of the first
notice.
Sec 110-76 Grievances With Water Restrictions
Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the City Manager shall have
the right to present the matter to the next regular or special meeting of the
authority board of trustees or to any emergency session called to discuss the
water emergency. The authority may exempt such aggrieved person, wholly or in
part, from compliance with the proclamation order upon showing that compliance
creates an immediate threat to the person's health or safety. The ruling of the
authority by a majority vote of all its members shall be final and binding as
to the continuance of any terms of the proclamation. Until and unless the
action of the City Manager is modified or revoked by action of the authority
all water users shall be bound by the proclamation.
Sec 110-77 Rural Water
   A.   The water lines and system outside the City limits represent an
extension of the core public water system designed to serve property located
within the City limits. Neither the authority nor the City is obligated or
required to supply water and/or extend the system to any further customer and/
or development beyond the City's corporate boundaries if such action could be
detrimental to other customers connected to the system.
   B.   Authority's responsibility regarding service line. Authority shall
establish an annual budgeted plan that sets forth the committed projects for
each fiscal year. Developers and individuals shall pay for all costs associated
to construct line extensions. Should the PPWA's committed projects for the
fiscal year be the same as the developers and individuals submitted project,
the developers and individuals shall not pay for the extension. Developers and
individuals extension request shall be submitted to PPWA/City staff for review.
Each commercial and industrial extension shall be submitted to PPWA/City staff.
Staff will formulate recommendations and submit to PPWA Trustees for review.
Trustees shall determine, as funds become available the cost and economic
benefit, so as to determine the PPWA's potential funding to extend service.
Water meters will be installed by the authority at the end of the service line.
This is in accordance with adopted water extension policies and procedures.
   C.   Denial of service.
      1.   If an existing rural main is not accessible, available, and/or of
insufficient capacity, as judged by the authority's general manager, a request
for water service shall be denied.
      2.   The general manager may cause a proposal to be formulated allowing
for a new requesting water customer to financially participate with the
authority in causing the water system to be enlarged and/or expanded so as to
provide water service to the new customer. The proposal shall be submitted by
the general manager to the authority trustees for final approval.
      3.   Each proposal submitted and approved shall be based on individual
merits and is not required to conform to any other proposal.
      4.   Any such improvement to the water system shall become the property
of the authority.
(Ord. No. 08-04, §§ 1, 2, 4-7-2008)
DIVISION 110-2-3 SEWER SYSTEM AND SERVICES
   
110-101   Tapping, Connection Charges
   
110-102   Use Of Public Sewers
   
110-103   Separate Sewers Required
   
110-104   Permits Required For New Sewer Construction
   
110-105   Specifications For Sewer Construction
   
110-106   Connection To Public Sewer
   
110-107   Measurements, Tests, And Analysis
   
110-108   Special Agreements
Sec 110-101 Tapping, Connection Charges
Taps to the sewer may be made only by authorized authority personnel:
   A.   The owner or his agent shall make application on a form provided by the
authority.
   B.   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the authority.
   C.   A permit and inspection fee for taps on sewer lines shall be paid to
the authority at the time the application is filed.
   D.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
   E.   The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
Sec 110-102 Use Of Public Sewers
   A.   Installation of toilet facilities. The owner or occupant of all
buildings used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose
situated in the City and abutting any street, alley, or right-of-way in which
there is now located, or may in the future be located, a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the authority, is hereby required, at his expense, to install
suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with
the proper public sewer within ninety (90) days after date of official notice
to do so whenever the sewer is within three hundred (300) feet of the property
line.
   B.   Prohibited facilities. Except as otherwise provided, it is unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   C.   Discharges to natural outlets prohibited. It is unlawful to discharge
to any natural outlet within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with this
chapter.
   D.   Unsanitary deposits. It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit,
or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private
property in the City or under its jurisdiction human or animal excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   E.   Permit required for opening, etc. No unauthorized person shall uncover,
make any connection with or opening into, alter, use, or disturb any public
sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
authority.
   F.   Use of old building sewers. Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the authority, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
Sec 110-103 Separate Sewers Required
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building.
However, where one (1) building stands at the rear of another or an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear of the
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front of the building may be extended to the rear of the rear of
the building and the whole considered one (1) building.
Sec 110-104 Permits Required For New Sewer Construction
   A.   Permit required. No person shall let a contract for, or commence the
construction of, any sanitary sewage system, extensions, or sewage facilities,
either whole or in part, or place or permit to be placed or discharged, or
permit to flow into the existing authority sanitary sewer system, any sewage
unless the person has first obtained a written permit signed by the authority.
   B.   Application and supplementation. The application for permission to
connect to the sewage facilities shall be made by written request and shall be
supplemented by complete plans, specifications, engineering reports, and other
pertinent information shall be forwarded by the authority to the appropriate
State agency for review, approval, and the issuance of a permit for
construction as required by State law.
   C.   Execution by authority; signature of responsible party. Plans and
specifications forwarded to the State shall be accompanied by an application
for permit to construct, properly executed and signed by the responsible
authority official, where the authority plans to accept the new sewerage
facilities upon completion of construction. In the event the authority does not
plan to accept responsibility for the facilities after construction has been
completed, the application for permit to construct must be signed by the party
who will be responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of the proposed sewerage
facilities.
   D.   Inspection by authority. A permit to connect any new sanitary sewerage
system extensions or sewerage facilities to existing authority sewerage
facilities shall not become effective until the new installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the authority and is in accordance with the requirements
of the State. The authority shall be allowed to inspect the work at any state
of construction and the applicant for the permit shall notify the authority
when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions
are covered.
   E.   Notification for inspection. The applicant for the building sewer
permit shall notify the authority when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made by
or under the supervision of the authority.
Sec 110-105 Specifications For Sewer Construction
   A.   Material. The building sewer line shall be of such material as may be
required by the authority or the City in its subdivision regulations or other
requirements.
   B.   Size and slope. Size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject
to the approval of the authority, but in no event shall the diameter be less
than four (4) inches; slope of such pipe shall be not less than one-eighth (1/
8) of an inch per foot.
   C.   Joints and connections. All joints and connections shall be made
according to the specifications established by the authority or the City.
   D.   Excavations, pipe laying, and backfill. All excavations required for
the installation of the building sewer shall be open trench work unless
otherwise approved by the authority. Pipe laying and backfill shall be
performed in accordance with City specifications except that no backfill shall
be placed until the work has been inspected.
   E.   Building sewers. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought
to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer
shall be laid parallel to, or within three (3) feet of, any bearing wall which
thereby might be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection
from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings.
   F.   Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
Sec 110-106 Connection To Public Sewer
   A.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the "Y" branch, if such is available at the suitable location. Where no
properly located "Y" branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the
public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream
direction at an angle of about forty-five (45) degrees. A forty-five (45)
degree "L" may be used to make such a connection, with the spigot end cut so as
not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the
building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or higher
elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be
made and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete.
Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the
authority.
   B.   Manholes, when required, shall be accessible and safely located, and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the authority.
   C.   Such manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall
be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Sec 110-107 Measurements, Tests, And Analysis
   A.   All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with standards adopted by the authority and shall be determined at
the control manhole provided for in this chapter.
   B.   If no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
Sec 110-108 Special Agreements
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the authority and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
DIVISION 110-2-4 ELECTRIC SYSTEM
SUBDIVISION 110-2-4-I IN GENERAL
SUBDIVISION 110-2-4-II EXTENSION
SUBDIVISION 110-2-4-III POWER LINE SITING AND DESIGN BOARD
 
SUBDIVISION 110-2-4-I IN GENERAL
   
110-136   Applications And Permits
   
110-137   Connections
   
110-138   Connection With Lines
   
110-139   Accounts Against Number Of Property And Premises
   
110-140   Unlawful To Furnish Additional Persons Or Premises
   
110-141   Unlawful To Use Current Through Defective Fixtures
   
110-142   Meters
   
110-143   Meter Ownership; Requirements, Estimates
   
110-144   Discontinuance Of Service, Notice
   
110-145   Right To Shut Off Current
Sec 110-136 Applications And Permits
All applications and permits for connection with and use of electric facilities
shall be made in conformity with authority requirements and standards for
wiring and construction prescribed by the City and on forms as required by the
authority.
Sec 110-137 Connections
Upon presentation to the authority of proper application and deposit, a permit
shall be issued to connect the electric lines with the property described in
the application, and such connections shall be made from the electric lines to
the premises or building described in the application as shall be necessary to
furnish electric power to the occupant of the premises described.
Sec 110-138 Connection With Lines
It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with any wire or fixtures
of any character belonging to the electric system of the authority without
first having obtained permission to do so from the authority.
Sec 110-139 Accounts Against Number Of Property And Premises
All accounts for the use of electricity shall be kept against the number of the
premises and property described for which the service is installed. A tenant or
person holding under lease may be supplied with electrical current on his own
account when proper application is made.
Sec 110-140 Unlawful To Furnish Additional Persons Or Premises
It is unlawful for any person whose premises are supplied with electrical
current from the authority lines to install additional fixtures on a premises
or to use current for purposes other than those stated in the application or to
furnish current to additional residential units, persons, or premises unless he
shall first make application and receive permission in the same manner as
provided in the original application and permit.
Sec 110-141 Unlawful To Use Current Through Defective Fixtures
It is unlawful for any person to use any current from the electrical system or
allow it to be used on any premises where the wiring or fixtures are not in
good repair or where the machinery is in bad repair, or does not comply with
the standards required by City ordinances or authority rules.
Sec 110-142 Meters
The authority is authorized and directed to install meters on the service of
each and every person using electrical service provided by the authority. The
user is liable for any damage and costs of making repairs arising from neglect
or wrongful use of the meter or electric service.
Sec 110-143 Meter Ownership; Requirements, Estimates
All meters put in by the authority shall be and remain the property of the
authority and are not to be removed unless the use of current on the premises
is entirely stopped and the service connection discontinued or abandoned. In
all cases where meters are lost, injured or broken by carelessness or
negligence on the part of the owners or occupants of the premises, they shall
be replaced by the authority and the costs charged against the owners or
occupants. In the event of the meter getting out of order or failing to
register properly, the consumer shall be charged on an estimate based on
average monthly consumption during the last three (3) months the same was in
good order or from what may be the most reliable at the command of the
authority.
Sec 110-144 Discontinuance Of Service, Notice
It is unlawful for any owner or person connected with the electrical system to
disconnect from the system unless he shall have first made a request, in
writing if so required by the authority, that the service of electrical current
to the premises be discontinued and shall pay all arrearages in excess of the
deposit amount due for the use of electrical current on the premises. When
current has been cut off from any premises upon application of the owner or
occupant of the premises, or for nonpayment of charges, or for any other cause,
it is unlawful to again connect such premises except upon application to and by
the authority.
Sec 110-145 Right To Shut Off Current
   A.   The authority reserves the right, at all times, without notice, to shut
off current for light and power in the event it is found necessary on account
of repairs, extensions, nonpayment of rates, noncompliance with applicable
codes, or any other reason, and the authority shall not be responsible for any
stoppages or interruptions in the supply or current or for any other damages
resulting from the shutting off.
   B.   Electrical service may be cut off and service discontinued for any user
of electricity from the City electric system for any of the following reason:
      1.   Violation of any ordinance provision relating to the electric system
or violation of any ordinance provision or any provision of any code adopted by
reference relating to electricity and electrical fixtures;
      2.   Any act or omission in regard to the electrical system or the use of
electricity which jeopardizes the public health or safety, creates a public
nuisance, or interferes with the rights of others; or
      3.   Failure to pay a utility bill or other proper charge in connection
with the utilities by the time the bill becomes delinquent.
SUBDIVISION 110-2-4-II EXTENSION
   
110-171   City Policy Established
   
110-172   Electric Line Construction
   
110-173   Rebate For Subdivisions
   
110-174   Annexation
   
110-175   Meter Boxes
   
110-176   Administration
   
110-177   Repealer
   
110-178   Electrical Trench Detail
   
110-179   Transformer Pad Detail
Editor's note- This subdivision is from Purcell Public Works Authority
Resolution No. 99-P04, adopted on March 1, 1999.
Sec 110-171 City Policy Established
It shall be the policy of the authority, on behalf of its beneficiary, the
City, to furnish and sell electric power at volumes commensurate with the needs
and demands of its customers to the greatest extent possible but no volumes are
guaranteed or assured. Minimum and maximum volumes shall be determined by the
authority from time to time as needs and circumstances change.
(Res. No. 99-P04, § 1, 3-1-1999)
Sec 110-172 Electric Line Construction
   A.   Installation according to policy; control; connection with authority's
approval only; payment of costs. It shall be the policy of the authority, on
behalf of its beneficiary, the City, to require electric distribution lines and
transformers to be installed according to the City's and the authority's
specifications. The authority shall control and inspect the installation of all
lines and transformers from the commencement of the project. No connections
shall be made to authority electric lines without prior written approval of the
authority. All connections shall be made by City and/or authority personnel or
their designees. The initial cost of construction including the cost of
transformers shall be paid by owner/developer when the distribution system is
being extended to new subdivisions or to areas not now included in the system.
   B.   Connection by developers/ owners. Except in instances listed in
subsection (C) of this section, where an individual, partnership, corporation,
or other legal entity, hereinafter called the developer/owner, desires to
connect to the authority electric distribution system, such developer/owner
shall design all electric lines and transformers within the boundaries of
developer/owner's property to meet City and authority specifications. The
design shall be approved by the appropriate representatives of the City and
authority prior to installation.
   C.   Connection of service lines.
      1.   Where the developer/owner desires to connect a single residence,
commercial building, or other building located within three hundred (300) feet
of an authority distribution line, the authority will install a service line
from the transformer to an approved and inspected weatherhead provided by the
developer/owner.
      2.   If the developer/owner desires underground electrical service from
the authority's overhead distribution line within such three hundred (300)
feet, such developer/owner shall pay the difference in the increased cost of
labor and materials required for installing underground service verses the cost
of providing overhead service.
      3.   Where a single residence, commercial building, or other building is
more than three hundred (300) feet from an authority distribution line, the
developer/owner must, at its own expense, provide the additional distribution
line and the necessary transformers beyond three hundred (300) feet.
      4.   The authority and/or the City, as the case may be, shall have the
authority to view each individual case for the purpose of determining whether
or not it is feasible, and under what conditions it is feasible, for the
authority to extend its lines. The authority reserves the right to determine
that an extension is not feasible and therefore not extend its lines and
further reserves the right to modify this policy by a majority vote of the
entire Council or trustees.
   D.   Acceptance of easements. All utility easements shall be in order,
accepted, and taken in the name of the authority and/or the City in advance of
installation. If it becomes necessary, the City and/or authority may exercise
its right of eminent domain, but is not required to do so. All expenses related
to obtaining such easements, including, but not limited to, legal fees, court
costs, filing fees, and the purchasing of easements shall be paid by the
developer/owner. The costs and fees associated with obtaining such easements
shall not be a part of the rebate costs described in Section
110-173.
   E.   Conveyance of title. Upon completion by developer/owner of such lines
and installation of transformers within its property at its cost, the
developer/owner shall convey title to the lines and transformers to the
authority after final inspection and approval by the authority and/or City
personnel.
(Res. No. 99-P04, § 2, 3-1-1999)
Sec 110-173 Rebate For Subdivisions
   A.   Determination of cost per lot. Prior to installation, the authority
shall determine the costs to the authority of materials, equipment, and
personnel to provide service including street lighting on the property of the
developer/owner. This cost will be divided by the number of building lots shown
on the final plat of the subdivision to determine the cost per lot for
electrical service. The cost per lot as so determined shall be the basis for
the rebate set forth in subsection (C) of this subsection.
   B.   Issuance of vouchers. Upon completion and acceptance of the electric
lines and transformers by the authority and/or City, the authority shall issue
one (1) voucher to the developer/owner for each building lot shown on the final
plat of the subdivision. The value of each voucher will be the cost determined
in subsection (A) of this section. Vouchers will be redeemable only within five
(5) years from the date of issuance after which time the voucher will be null
and void.
   C.   Rebate of vouchers. Upon connection of authority electric service to a
building site, the authority/city shall pay the developer/owner or the holder
of the voucher a rebate for the amount of the voucher. Rebates shall only be
paid based upon permanent connection to authority lines; i.e., if one (1) house
sets on more than one (1) lot, the authority/City will rebate only one (1)
voucher for the connection. If more than one (1) house sits on a lot, the
authority/City will only rebate for the one (1) lot.
   D.   Installation of underground utilities. If underground utilities are
desired and or required by the owner/developer, all underground cables shall be
installed in conduit in accordance with authority standards. Underground system
transformers shall be installed on the front property lot lines so as to be
directly accessible from a public street in the event an alley way is not
platted, unless instructed otherwise by the authority's general manager.
   E.   Review of rebates. The rebates provided for in subsections (A), (B),
(C), and (D) of this section shall apply only to subdivisions. However, the
authority and/or the City reserves the right to review an application for
rebate concerning a single residence, commercial, or other building from the
standpoint of feasibility as well as being in the best interest of the City and
its residents. The authority and/or City reserves the power to modify and
deviate from the provisions contained in this section based upon a vote of a
majority of the Councilmembers or trustees.
(Res. No. 99-P04, § 3, 3-1-1999)
Sec 110-174 Annexation
The developer/owner shall petition the City for annexation of any properties to
be served by such electric system. In the event a plat is to be filed of the
area involved, the developer/owner agrees that immediately upon the filing of
such plat, annexation may be effected at the City's option. Electric usage
shall determine, but not limit, the area served.
(Res. No. 99-P04, § 4, 3-1-1999)
Sec 110-175 Meter Boxes
The authority shall provide without charge the required meter base for
installation in accordance with applicable codes and State law. If a meter base
greater than two hundred (200) amps is requested or required, the owner/
developer or customer shall be assessed any additional costs incurred by the
authority.
(Res. No. 99-P04, § 5, 3-1-1999)
Sec 110-176 Administration
It shall be the duty of the secretary-treasurer of the authority to keep
records of electric improvements to the distribution system. It shall be the
duty of the general manager and the electric department superintendent to
advise the authority secretary-treasurer of any extensions to be made.
(Res. No. 99-P04, § 6, 3-1-1999)
Sec 110-177 Repealer
This resolution shall repeal any prior resolution, ordinance, or parts of prior
resolutions or ordinances in conflict with it.
(Res. No. 99-P04, § 7, 3-1-1999)
Sec 110-178 Electrical Trench Detail
ADD IMAGE
 
Note- Sweeps and 90s will be steel or aluminum.
Sec 110-179 Transformer Pad Detail
ADD IMAGE
 
SUBDIVISION 110-2-4-III POWER LINE SITING AND DESIGN BOARD
   
110-190   Power Line Siting And Design Board Established; Duties; Powers
   
110-191   Approval; Process
   
110-192   Safety Hazard; Underground Requirements
   
110-193   Board Membership
   
110-194   Application When Not Applicable
Sec 110-190 Power Line Siting And Design Board Established; Duties; Powers
There is hereby created a Power Line Siting and Design Board. The board is
hereby established to develop valid construction standards and safety rules for
the use of public ways in the City by all utilities including the Purcell
Public Works Authority's Electric Utility. The board is directed to establish
methods to encourage the orderly development of electric services, conserve
natural resources, minimize unnecessary use of the public rights-of-way, avoid
needless and wasteful duplication of electric facilities within the State, and
provide safe, economical and cost effective electric service to retail
customers. It shall be the duty of the Power Line Siting and Design Board to
ensure that the purposes of State law are achieved by reviewing all
applications and will approve the application or amend the application by
providing the methods that shall be used to accomplish the construction so that
the construction meets the goals of the Retail Electric Consumer Cost
Reduction, Safety, and Service Efficiency Act of 2008.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 4-6-2009)
Special law reference- HB 1739 passed by the Oklahoma State Legislature in
2008.
Sec 110-191 Approval; Process
Construction of all power lines within the City shall be constructed only after
submission of plans for such construction to the Power Line Siting and Design
Board. Such plans may be carried out by a utility only after approval of the
construction by the board with final approval to be provided by the PWA or City
Council of the City of Purcell. The City Council or PWA may approve or
disapprove a recommendation of the board, but it may not amend any
recommendation. It may send an application back to the Board for further
review.
(Res. No. 09-02, § 2, 4-6-2009)
Sec 110-192 Safety Hazard; Underground Requirements
HB 1739 found that duplicate overhead power lines are a safety and should not
be permitted. It is therefore the goal of the governing body of the City of
Purcell that power lines constructed in the future should be underground
wherever possible, and the Power Line Siting and Design Board should take all
measures needed to ensure the use of underground facilities by utilities. The
board shall ensure that the use of the rights of way are used in such a manner
as to ensure the public safety and the best use of limited rights-of-way area
as mandated by HB 1739 (2008).
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 3, 4-6-2009)
Sec 110-193 Board Membership
The members of the Power Line Siting and Design Board shall include the Chief
Administrative Officer of the City, the Chief Finance Officer of the City, and
the Superintendent of the Electric Utility. The members will appoint a
chairman, vice chairman, and treasurer among themselves. The board will meet
from time to time at the call of the chair.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 4, 4-6-2009)
Sec 110-194 Application When Not Applicable
The provisions of this act shall not apply to electric utilities that hold a
valid franchise for operations in the City of Purcell.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 5, 4-6-2009)
DIVISION 110-2-5 GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE
   
110-206   Garbage To Be Collected
   
110-207   Containers And Refuse Regulations
   
110-208   Garbage And Trash In Container, Cans
   
110-209   (Reserved)
   
110-210   Tree Trimmings
   
110-211   Sewage To Be Drained Off
   
110-212   Dead Animals
   
110-213   Garbage, Trash, And Ashes Collected By Authority; Placement Of
Containers
   
110-214   Garbage, How Disposed Of
   
110-215   Tampering, Scavenging Prohibited
   
110-216   Convenience Center Policies
Sec 110-206 Garbage To Be Collected
Every person using or occupying any building, house, or structure within the
City shall be required to collect, separate, and dispose of all garbage, trash,
ashes, and sewage as provided in this chapter. It is unlawful for any such
person, firm, or corporation to collect, separate, or dispose of garbage,
trash, ashes, or sewage in any manner except as is provided in this division.
It is unlawful for any person other than the City or its designated agents to
collect, transport, or dispose of refuse without written approval of the
authority, except for private hauling of items to a dump site.
Sec 110-207 Containers And Refuse Regulations
Every occupant or owner of a residential unit to which refuse collection
service is made available from the authority, or any business or industrial
establishment, including any building, house, or structure, within the City
shall comply with the following:
   A.   Placement and use of trash cans in alleys where City containers are
located is expressly prohibited. The placement or parking of vehicles in alleys
where containers are located or in the City right-of-way, so as to deny access
to the container, is expressly prohibited. The authority reserves the right to
refuse to collect refuse in containers which are not accessible by reason of
parked vehicles or other obstructions. All refuse from residential units may be
stored in such containers for the storage of refuse; however, the following
items shall not be stored in City containers: tires, furniture, appliances,
bath fixtures, steel, dirt, masonry products or any volume of materials which
because of weight would preclude the authority or its designated contractor
from dumping the container. These prohibited items may be picked up by service
as set forth in this chapter. The placement of any items on the ground beside
the container, which normally would be placed in the container, and thereby
causing litter, is prohibited.
   B.   Commercial units, including, but not limited to, businesses and
industrial establishments, shall place refuse in the container and the opening
shall be immediately closed and securely fastened. Cardboard boxes which are
placed in the containers must be nested or broken down. The same restrictions
and prohibitions that apply to residential units shall also apply to commercial
units, businesses, and industrial establishments.
   C.   It is the responsibility of each contractor, builder, commercial
landscaping contractor, and appliance or furniture dealer to dispose of their
respective items.
   D.   Storage of all refuse shall be in a manner as is approved by the City
authority and health officers.
Sec 110-208 Garbage And Trash In Container, Cans
   A.   All garbage as defined in this chapter shall be placed in the
containers provided, plastic bags, or, where permitted, garbage cans maintained
for that purpose. Before placing the garbage in the containers provided,
plastic bags, or garbage cans, all liquid portion of the garbage shall be
drained into the sanitary sewer. The lid or cover on the containers or on the
garbage cans must be kept closed and fastened so that flies and other insects
or animals may not have access to the contents therein and shall be removed
only while depositing additional garbage or trash or while the collectors
removing and unloading the contents of the containers or the garbage cans for
disposal.
   B.   All trash as defined in this chapter shall be placed in the containers
provided or garbage cans where permitted with the garbage but only to such
extent as will permit the cover or lid of the container or can to be properly
placed thereon.
   C.   Containers or cans containing other than garbage and trash as defined
in this section will not be collected until such prohibited materials have been
removed by the person responsible for placing them in the container or can and
the collector shall promptly report such person to the authority.
Sec 110-209 (Reserved)
Sec 110-210 Tree Trimmings
   A.   Tree cuttings or trimmings shall be bundled in lengths not to exceed
three (3) feet in length and one and one-half (1 1/2) feet in diameter and not
exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight.
   B.   Tree trimmings, building and manufacturing wastes, grasses, leaves,
weeds, and rocks shall not be allowed to accumulate upon any premises in the
City so as to create a menace to health, a fire hazard or an unsightly
appearance and shall be removed at the expense of the person responsible for
the accumulation. Under no condition may tree trimmings, grasses, weeds,
leaves, or building and manufacturing wastes be burned within the City unless
they are burned by City or authority personnel acting in line of duty.
Cross reference- Vegetation, Ch.
114.
Sec 110-211 Sewage To Be Drained Off
All sewage shall be drained off and disposed of through the proper receptacles
into the sanitary sewer.
Sec 110-212 Dead Animals
   A.   The carcass of a dead animal in the container or garbage can is
prohibited. The carcass of a dead animal must be disposed of by the owner or at
his expense.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to bury, or cause to be buried, the
carcass of any dead animal in any street, park, private premises, or any other
public or private place within the City.
Cross reference- Animals, Ch.
10.
Sec 110-213 Garbage, Trash, And Ashes Collected By Authority; Placement Of
Containers
   A.   No person may deposit, or cause to be deposited, in or on any street,
alley, sidewalk area, or public right-of-way any refuse or other waste
materials. Bulky items designated for pickup may be placed curbside.
   B.   It is unlawful to place upon the sidewalk area, alleys, or streets any
sweepings or trash from stores or other buildings or any leaves, yard
cleanings, debris from pruning, or other refuse materials.
Sec 110-214 Garbage, How Disposed Of
All refuse and ashes collected shall be disposed of in such manner as the
authority may provide.
Sec 110-215 Tampering, Scavenging Prohibited
   A.   The term "scavenging," as used in this section, means the collecting,
hauling, transporting, or removal of any material or any residue or part
thereof of any kind of whatsoever nature from any dump ground, sanitary
landfill, garbage or trash disposal facility, or sewage disposal facility
provided or maintained by the City or authority for such purposes or to molest
or interfere with the contents of any receptacle containing refuse, garbage, or
trash which belongs to another without permission.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, unless expressly licensed or permitted
by the City or authority, to enter upon any dump ground, sanitary landfill,
garbage or trash disposal facility, or sewage disposal facility maintained by
the City or authority for such purposes and engage in scavenging as defined in
this section.
Sec 110-216 Convenience Center Policies
   A.   Normal hours of operations:
      Monday-Friday   1:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m.
      Saturday      10:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m.
   The center will not be available on established holidays. The center may
also be closed anytime if the center is not available to process/store items
and/or due to weather conditions.
   B.   Residential and commercial trash service; service fees. The convenience
center is provided and operated for residential and commercial trash customers
in accordance with the policy document entitled "Department: Solid Waste
Management Procedures, Administration of the Purcell Convenience Center," pages
1 through and including page 4 under revision date of August 7, 2006.
   C.   Deposits. Items are to be deposited into appropriately designated
convenience containers as marked and/or directed by the City's representative.
For example, only brush-tree limbs will be accepted at the "grinder" and only
metal products at the designated "metal" container. Failure to deposit items at
designated location may result in a special assessment being imposed.
   D.   Accepted items.
      1.   Furniture and miscellaneous household items.
      2.   Appliances; however, refrigeration and air condition units must have
compressors removed.
      3.   Items which will not fit into polycarts or dumpsters which are
otherwise prohibited.
   E.   Unacceptable items.
      1.   Any item too large to fit within designated containers and/or
restricted by ODEQ or EPA.
      2.   Hazardous items, including toxic chemicals or materials, asbestos,
acids, and batteries.
      3.   Paint, lacquer, thinner, solvents, motor oil, antifreeze, etc.
      4.   Rubber products including tires and tubes.
      5.   Household trash or garbage.
      6.   Construction debris, shingles, bricks, sheetrock, dirt, rocks,
concrete, etc.
(Ord. No. 06-12, §§ 1, 2, 8-22-2006)
Editor's note- The above section was adopted separately from the other
provisions of this article.
ARTICLE 110-3 DRAINAGE STANDARDS
   
110-251   Application
   
110-252   Definitions
   
110-253   Purpose And Intent
   
110-254   Required Documentation And Procedure
   
110-255   Design Method Standards
   
110-256   Construction Of Drainage Systems
   
110-257   Enforcement And Penalty
Editor's note- Ord. No. 02-08, §§ 1-7, adopted May 6, 2002, did not specify
manner of inclusion; hence, inclusion as Article 3, §§ 110-251-110-256, is at
the discretion of the editor.
Sec 110-251 Application
All subdivisions of land, developments, or improvements to any land in the
corporate limits of the City as now and as may be hereafter established shall
be subject to all provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 02-08, § 1, 5-6-2002)
Sec 110-252 Definitions
The definition of terms set forth in this article shall be given the meaning
indicated unless the content clearly requires a different meaning.
   A.   Applicant means a person, partnership, corporation, or public agency
requesting permission to engage in construction.
   B.   Construction means any alteration of land for the purpose achieving its
development or changed use, including particularly any preparation for,
building of, or erection of a structure;
   C.   Detention means a temporary storage of determined quantity of water for
a specified period of time with a release rate, that is either fixed or
variable for releasing stormwater into a downstream drainage system during the
storm.
   D.   Developer means any person, persons, corporation, or other entity who
in his or her own behalf, or as an agent of another, engages in development,
subdivision, construction of structures, or alteration of land in preparation
therefor.
   E.   Drainage system means the surface and subsurface system for the removal
of water from the land, including both the natural elements of streams,
marshes, swales, and, ponds, whether of an intermittent or; continuous nature,
and the man-made element which includes culverts, ditches, channels, retention
facilities, detention facilities, gutters, streets, and storm sewer systems.
   F.   Minor maintenance means any maintenance activity for the maintenance of
a drainage system specifically excluding repair or replacement of paved channel
liners, replacement of revetments or rip-rap, or replacement of soil lost due
to meandering of a channel. Minor maintenance includes, but is not limited to,
mowing, replacement of vegetation, filling of erosion gullies and removal of
restrictions (debris, trees, etc.).
   G.   Natural drainage means the dispersal of surface waters through ground
absorption and by drainage channels formed by the existing surface topography
which exist at the time adoption of this article or formed by any natural or
approved man-made changes in the surface topography.
   H.   Retention means long-term storage of stormwater runoff and controlled
release of this runoff during and/or after a flood or storm.
(Ord. No. 02-08, § 2, 5-6-2002)
Sec 110-253 Purpose And Intent
It is the purpose this article to set forth the minimum requirements necessary
to provide and maintain a safe, efficient, and effective stormwater management
system within the City and to establish the various public and private
responsibilities for the provision thereof with the least possible disruption
of the natural drainage system and of the environment.
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of any applicant engaged in the activity
of land subdivision, development, or improvement to:
      1.   Control and manage all drainage from the subdivision resulting from
the development including the control and management of any determined,
approved increase in runoff or runoff rate.
      2.   Prepare all drawings, plans specifications, statements, studies,
justifications, and other data required by this article in form that permits an
orderly and comprehensive review and approval to assure that all assigned
responsibilities have, sufficiently and correctly incorporated.
      3.   Control and manage all stormwater runoff and drainage from points
and surfaces within the subdivision.
      4.   Provide detention or retention facilities or storm sewer, or
improved or natural channels, or a combination thereof to provide control and
management of increased discharge.
      5.   Prevent soil dispersal, sedimentation, erosion, or other similar
forms of pollution:
         a.   From any surface of the site into drainage channels provided or
created within the development.
         b.   From the site into drainage channels adjacent to and remote from
the site.
      6.   Prevent any and all drainage interferences, obstructions, or other
adverse effects upon drainage into, through, or adjacent to the development
from upstream or higher elevation source by the use of temporary or permanent
by-pass channels, channel improvements, or other facilities as may be required.
      7.   Improve or modify all drainage systems and channels lying within or
adjacent to the subdivision to a level that meets all requirements of this
article.
      8.   Improve or modify drainage systems downstream from the subdivision
to a level that will accommodate all allowable, significant increases in
stormwater quantity or rate without adverse effect and in accordance with the
requirements of this article.
      9.   Fully consider and provide natural drainage in the design of
drainage systems and classifications applicable to the development.
      10.   Prepare and submit a professional evaluation of the impacts of
proposed development.
      11.   Maintain all installed drainage facilities in a clean, fully
functioning manner, from installation through final acceptance by the City.
      12.   Prevent any contribution to existing flooding, drainage, erosion,
runoff, pollution. Or other stormwater management problems within an area
already under a high level of development.
      13.   Prevent drainage, runoff, flooding, or problems associated with any
adverse contribution to any such potential problems.
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of all owners of property, whether
undeveloped, developed, or undergoing development, to:
      1.   Mow and provide minor maintenance of drainage channels and their
slopes for that portion of the channel lying within their property line.
      2.   Keep clear all drainage channels within the boundaries of their
properties in accordance with the requirements of this article.
      3.   Control all stormwater runoff and drainage from points and surfaces
on the property.
      4.   Prevent any and all drainage interferences, obstructions, blockages,
or any other adverse effects upon drainage, into, through, or out of the
property.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the City to:
      1.   Repair and maintain drainage channels and their slopes when located
within or upon rights-of-way dedicated to and accepted by the City.
      2.   Develop and implement standards and specifications required to
clearly and accurately interpret the physical requirements of this article.
      3.   Make such necessary improvements of primary and secondary drainage
channels that cannot or will not be improved through private development.
      4.   Improve and maintain floodway and flood fringe areas that are
dedicated and accepted-public areas, rights-of-way, park lands, or public-owned
buildings or developments.
      5.   Improve and maintain all public owned drainage channels or systems
outside the flood fringe area.
   D.   It is the intent of this article that the following principles shall be
used in the design of modifications to or the improvement of the stormwater
management system.
      1.   Natural drainage channels and techniques shall be given priority
consideration in preparation of drainage system designs and shall be designed
or improved as an integral part of the landscape of the area and shall be kept
in good repair.
         a.   The design of any development shall provide for the maximum use
of open channels and natural streams for flows and detention or retention
storage of volumes and flows in excess of those present prior to development.
         b.   Drainage channel improvement shall be developed and designed that
preserve and protect large trees and other worthy botanical and geological
features to the greatest possible extent.
         c.   Wherever channel improvements are required to accommodate
calculated flows in a specified manner, the designs shall provide maximum
utilization of turf, sodding, and other natural drainage techniques.
      2.   Closed, underground drainage conduits shall be employed only when
there is no viable alternative to fit site or geographic conditions or to meet
the requirements of this article and all specifications and performance
standards pertaining thereto.
      3.   The rate of runoff after development shall not exceed that rate
experienced before development.
         a.   In no case shall the release rate of stormwater runoff from all
developments in a drainage area, controlled or uncontrolled, exceed the "safe"
storm drainage capacity of the downstream outlet channel(s) or storm drainage
system as determined by the City Engineer or other designated representatives
by the City Manager.
         b.   Within already developing or developed areas where "safe" storm
drainage capacity of downstream outlet channel(s) or storm drainage system has
been exceeded, the developer shall add no increased runoff unless the
downstream outlet capacity has been increased to accommodate all flows.
         c.   Improvements may be required in channels or sewers flowing into,
through, or from the subdivision or development, or in channels or sewers
located upstream or downstream that are affected by the flow of water from the
subdivision; development, or change thereto. The following types of
improvements, among others not specifically listed, may be required.
            (1)   Enlargement or replacement of undersized structures.
            (2)   Removal of obstructions.
            (3)   Straightening, widening, and/or deepening of channels.
            (4)   Construction of erosion and sedimentation facilities.
            (5)   Construction of closed- or open-paved or natural drains for
the purpose of closing gaps or maintaining the continuation of the overall
stormwater drainage system.
            (6)   Detention or retention facilities.
            (7)   Improvements as otherwise required by this article to assure
efficient and safe stormwater management.
         d.   When subdivision development or property improvements will result
in an increased runoff beyond the boundaries of the development or improvement
which cannot be accommodated through channel improvements without flooding or
potential flooding upstream or downstream, the City through its duly designated
representative and/or board shall require the construction of one (1) or more
detention or retention facilities on the subdivision or property being improved
and/or required detention or retention techniques to be used off site which
will result in flows, during construction and thereafter, from the property at
a rate and volume no greater than the discharge from the undeveloped site.
      4.   All those engaged, in land improvements or modifications shall
prevent the erosion of soil and movement of sedimentation into, unto, or
through streets, gutters, catch basins, culverts, or other drainage channels
and shall prevent erosion as a result of flows from streets, gutters, culverts,
or other drainage channels.
         a.   Where it can be demonstrated that there is no alternative to
rapid runoff water because of identifiable restrictions, the developer shall be
required to provide measures to prevent erosion, damage, flooding, or other
adverse effects.
         b.   The City Engineer or the duly appointed City representative shall
require the cleaning, straightening, and/or repair of any natural drainage
channel or natural features of other drainage channels when necessary to
provide for the free flow of water or to eliminate and/or prevent erosion
upstream and downstream.
      5.   The City Engineer or the duly appointed City representative may
approve stormwater runoff into a street or alley provided the developer fully
and adequately demonstrates that the street or alley or an improvement thereof
will provide drainage in full conformance with all other provisions of this
article and which will prevent runoff or overflow onto adjacent or nearby
residential property.
   E.   It is the further intent of this article that the following
requirements be met to ensure the least possible disruption to the existing
drainage system.
      1.   Detention and retention, separately, or in combination, shall be
considered and incorporated, where possible, in all drainage systems design
consistent with safety, convenience, and restrictions place upon stormwater
runoff rates and velocities for the developments, property, and drainage
channels through or therefrom.
      2.   The City may require improvements, provision of drainage easements;
and for provision of improvements, agreements, and/or easements beyond the
boundaries of the subdivision, development, or property improvement to
facilitate flow of stormwater from or through the property, to avoid damage
from changed runoff conditions, to provide continuous improvement of the
overall storm drainage system, and to accommodate all drainage conditions or
requirements, where stormwater runoff flows require the logical extension of
any street and its associated drainage in order to prevent flooding, ponding,
or uncontrolled runoff, the extension shall be provided by the developer.
      3.   Improvements provided by the developer shall be fully and properly
maintained from initial approval of installation(s) through final acceptance of
the development improvements by the City. The continuing maintenance of
detention or retention facilities shall be assured by the developer in the
manner described for other drainage facilities.
      4.   No action shall be taken in any land improvement by any developer,
contractor, or lot owner that will alter or otherwise change designed and
installed stormwater management control, nor shall any action be taken on
existing property that shall adversely affect stormwater runoff in any manner
contrary to the provisions of this article, whether temporary in nature to
service, only the construction phase of development, or whether a combination
of temporary and permanent serving a dual purpose, the first techniques to be
employed in the development of a site shall be the management of stormwater and
drainage in manner consistent with the requirements of this article.
   F.   If any determination based upon the provision of this subsection is
felt to be unreasonable or inapplicable, a developer or lot owner may appeal
that determination to the board of adjustment. Upon the written request for the
appeal which shall include all justifications and reasons for that appeal, the
question will be heard at the next available meeting of the board of
adjustment. If not satisfied with the decision of the board of adjustment, a
developer or, lot owner may appeal the decision of the board of adjustment to
district court.
(Ord. No. 02-08, § 3, 5-6-2002)
Sec 110-254 Required Documentation And Procedure
   A.   Preliminary plats submitted for review and approval shall be
accompanied by the following documents, which shall be submitted to the City
Engineer or the duly appointed City representative:
      1.   Five (5) copies of predevelopment report accurately describing:
         a.   Dimensions, size and location;
         b.   Existing topography;
         c.   Soil types;
         d.   Vegetation;
         e.   Flood hazard areas;
         f.   Other significant surface features;
         g.   Existing land use;
         h.   Existing runoff volume;
         i.   Existing runoff rates;
         j.   Existing runoff routing.
      2.   Five (5) copies of a plan for the control of erosion and
sedimentation which shall contain:
         a.   Data showing the nature and extent of the proposed clearing,
grading and development or improvement operations;
         b.   An estimate of soil loss during and after development;
         c.   Proposal for the control of erosion and sedimentation during and
after development including a statement of actions proposed to assure erosion
control for all areas of the site that will be unprotected for long periods or
during peak rainy periods and for natural drainage ways prior to and during
construction; and
         d.   Proposed topography of the site after development or improvement
including the method of handling runoff and stormwater.
      3.   A written statement of the impact on upstream and downstream
drainage prepared by an Oklahoma registered professional engineer and approved
by the City Engineer or the duly appointed City representative. The accuracy
and validity of any drainage impact statement and attachments shall be capable
of withstanding serious challenge at any stage in the review and approval
process in order to be accepted as a part of the project. Accordingly, the
alleviation of adverse impacts by on-site and off-site improvements relating to
the drainage are of important concern and shall be satisfactorily provided as
required by this article.
      4.   A description of proposed easements and/or rights-of-way, and the
provision of binding agreements between cooperating developers, for drainage
improvements required outside of subdivision development boundaries. Public
easements and right-of-way dedications shall be initiated by the developer,
property owner planning property improvement, or legal agent thereof, shall be
prepared in the manner prescribed by law, and shall be submitted in accordance
with the timing and routing requirements of this or other applicable article.
   B.   Final plats submitted for review and approval shall be accompanied by
the following documents, which shall be submitted to the City Engineer or the
duly appointed City representative.
      1.   All documentation required by this section; and
      2.   Improvement plans meeting the requirements of this section.
   C.   Any person applying for a building permit or who otherwise intends to
make changes in the contour of any land shall first submit the following
documents to the City Engineer or the duly appointed City representative.
      1.   All documentation required by this section, allowing that, at the
direction of the City Engineer, or others the documentation need not be
prepared by a professional engineer; and
      2.   Plans for improvement or changes proposed, including site plans,
plot plans, and building drawings for buildings and structures, clearly showing
the method of handling rainfall runoff and stormwater.
      3.   The following activities are specifically exempted from the
requirements of this section:
         a.   Bona fide agricultural or forestry operations.
         b.   Home gardening or other minor clearing or excavation work not
incident to a change in the residential use of the land.
         c.   Emergency repairs necessary for the preservation of life, health,
or property.
         d.   Routine maintenance or repair work on public or private roads an
rights-of-way or utility line easements and rights-of-way.
         e.   Changes that would occur on single-family residential lots or
property of less than two (2) acres, unless the proposed action(s) conflict
with previously approved reports required by subsection (D).
   D.   All plans and documentation required by this section must comply with
all City standards, regulations, ordinances, and with the approved drainage
master plan or drainage studies.
   E.   All documentation and plans required by this section must be approved
by the City Engineer or other authorized City representative prior to their
implementation. The City Engineer or other authorized City representative may
submit any documents to the following agencies for their review and comment
prior to his approval:
      1.   The City Public Works Authority; and
      2.   The United States Soil Conservation Service; and
      3.   Any other local, federal or State agency involved in floodwater
detention or retention waters.
   F.   Appeals of the decision or requirements made as a result of this
review, other than for improvement plans requirements, may be made first to the
City board of adjustment and if still dissatisfied to district court.
   G.   Projects and tasks proposed in the plans and documents required by this
section shall be implemented as proposed. Any changes or amendments to the
plans or documentation must be approved by the City Engineer or other
authorized City representative in accordance with the established review
procedures.
(Ord. No. 02-08, § 4, 5-6-2002)
Sec 110-255 Design Method Standards
   A.   This section shall define the methods, performance, standards, and
design criteria which shall be used in the preparation and evaluation of the
reports and plans required as documentation in Section
110-254.
   B.   Drainage calculations.
"C" Coefficients According to Description of Drainage Area
Description of Area Runoff Coefficients
Description of Area   Runoff Coefficients
Business
Downtown              0.70 to 0.95
Neighborhood          0.50 to 0.70
Residential
Single-Family         0.30 to 0.50
Multi-units, detached 0.40 to 0.60
Multi-units, attached 0.60 to 0.75
Residential (Suburban) Apartment Industrial
Light                 0.50 to 0.80
Heavy                 0.60 to 0.90
Parks, Cemeteries     0.10 to 0.25
Playgrounds           0.20 to 0.35
Railroad Yard         0.20 to 0.35
Unimproved            0.10 to 0.30
 
"C" Coefficients According to Character of Surface
Character of Surface Runoff Coefficients
Character of Surface          Runoff Coefficients
Pavement
Asphaltic and Concrete        0.70 to 0.95
Brick                         0.70 to 0.85
Roofs                         0.70 to 0.95
Lawns, Sandy Soil
Flat, 2 percent slope         0.05 to 0.10
Average, 2 to 7 percent slope 0.10 to 0.15
Steep, 7 percent slope        0.25 to 0.35
 
Acceptable formulas for determining time of concentration are as follows:
Time = K(L.37/S.2)
L = Length of flow in feet
S = Average slope in feet/foot
K = Constant for character of surface
Values of K:
Values of K:
Pavement           .372
Bare Soil          .604
Poor Grass         .90
Average Grass      1.00
Dense Grass        1.13
Commercial         0.445
Residential        0.511
Cultivated Soil    0.775
Timber; thin grass 0.942
Pasture            1.040
 
An acceptable formula for channel flow is:
Time = K(L 2/S).385
Values of K:
Values of K:
Curbed Street              .0035
Concrete Lined Channel     .006
Sodded Swale               .008
Bar Ditch                  .012
Straight; clean stream     0.00592
Average Stream             0.00835
Meandering; pooling stream 0.01020
 
An acceptable formula for intensity is as follows:
      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
bb94bc9cc859147e0d32dc029dacb8cc44325129/IMAGES/0-0-0-26.gif]
 
I = average rainfall intensity, inches per hour
T = rainfall duration (or time of concentration), minutes
d
 
STORM RETURN
 
    2YR   5YR    10YR     25YR 50YR 100YR
a = 56.43 72     82       95   108  120
    11.5
c = 0.810 b = 15 c = 0.80
 
WHERE T = TIME OF CONCENTRATION - d
   a.   Rational method analysis—Practices in Detention of Urban Stormwater
Runoff, American Public Works Association. Special Report No. 43
   b.   Stormwater flood routing techniques.
      2.   Flow volumes. The calculation of runoff flow volumes used in the
sizing of detention or retention facilities or other flood routing analysis
shall be done by the use of accepted stormwater routing principals and the
method shall be approved by the City Engineer or other authorized City
representative.
      3.   Structure sizing. The sizing of all drainage facilities or
structures shall be done by the use of established available engineering
principles and practice and the methods shall be acceptable to the City
Engineer or other authorized City representative.
         a.   The structure sizing shall include an analysis of the existence
of inlet or outlet control design, freeboard; spillway design, and a backwater
analysis where applicable.
         b.   Where Manning's Equation is used, the value for coefficients will
be taken from the following references:
            (1)   Open channels.
               (A)   Open Channel Hydraulics. Chow. Ven T., McGraw- Hill Book
Co., New York, N.Y. 1959.
               (B)   U.S.D.A. Handbook SCSTP-61, W.O. Ree.
               (C)   Roughness Characteristics of Natural Channels.
                  U.S.G.S. Water Supply Paper No. 1849, Washington, D.C. 1967.
            (2)   Closed conduits.
               (A)   Seelye's Handbook.
               (B)   Handbook of Hydraulics, King. H.W.
               (C)   USBR Hydraulic Tables.
               (D)   Modem Sewer Design, American iron and Steel Institute.
         c.   Natural open channels with vegetative linings shall be designed
considering infrequent mowing unless other conditions are demonstrated and
justified, guaranteed maintenance for exceptions must be established.
         d.   Cover vegetation for channel linings must be selected according
to Standards established by The Soil Conservation Service of McClain County and
shall be approved by the City Engineer or other authorized City representative.
      4.   When stormwater is conveyed via streets, flumes, swales, or open
channels, consideration will be given to pedestrian and traffic convenience and
safety. Special provisions may be required by the City Engineer or other
authorized City representative to avoid sheeting of water across arterial
intersections, inundation of crosswalks or sidewalks, inundation of driving
lanes, and other safety or nuisance problems. These special provisions may
include additional easements or rights-of-way, structures, flumes, or pavement
width.
   C.   Performance criteria.
      1.   Detention or retention facilities shall have the following
performance criteria:
         a.   Detention or retention facilities shall be sized by hydraulic
stormwater routing through the detention basin and to accommodate or contain
any changed drainage conditions due to the proposed development because of
increases in the runoff volume or rate.
         b.   Detention or retention facilities shall have a release rate which
does not exceed:
            (1)   The pre-development of runoff conditions for all return
storms; or
            (2)   The "safe" capacity of the downstream drainage channel or
system if any increase in runoff volume rate is approved.
      2.   Open channels, flumes, or swales shall have the following
performance criteria:
         a.   All channels, flumes, or swales shall be designed to carry the
fifty (50) year return frequency rainfall event.
         b.   The performance of all channels, flumes, or swales during the one
hundred (100) year return frequency rainfall event must be indicated.
      3.   Storm sewers and appurtenances shall have the following performance
criteria:
         a.   The combination of storm sewer and its overflow outlet shall have
the capacity to convey the ten (10) year return frequency rainfall event within
the drainage easement(s) or right(s)-of-way.
         b.   The performance of the overflow outlet(s) for the storm sewer
system during the one hundred (100) year return frequency rainfall event shall
be indicated under the condition that the storm sewer is plugged or
inoperative.
         c.   The minimum velocity is a storm sewer flowing full shall be three
(3) feet per second. Velocities less than three (3) feet per second may be
approved if properly designed sediment traps which are accessible for
maintenance are provided at the upstream end of the sections where the velocity
is to be less than three (3) feet per second.
      4.   Streets with curb and gutters shall have the following performance
criteria:
         a.   Arterial streets shall maintain two (2) clear ten (10) foot lanes
of traffic during the twenty-five (25) year return frequency rainfall event.
         b.   Drainage on collector streets shall not exceed two (2) inches in
depth at the crown of the street during the twenty-five (25) year return
frequency rainfall event.
         c.   Drainage on residential streets shall not exceed three and one-
half (3½) inches in depth at the crown of the street during the twenty-five
(25) year return frequency rainfall event.
      5.   Streets without curb and gutters shall have the following
performance criteria:
         a.   Arterial streets shall maintain two (2) clear ten (10) foot lanes
of traffic during the twenty-five (25) year return frequency rainfall event.
         b.   Residential or collector streets shall maintain two (2) clear
eight (8) foot lanes of traffic during the twenty-five (25) year return
frequency rainfall event.
(Ord. No. 02-08, § 5, 5-6-2002)
Sec 110-256 Construction Of Drainage Systems
Drainage systems shall be constructed in full accordance with approved designs
and specifications, without variation, except as may be authorized by a change
order or field change approved by the City Engineer or other authorized City
representative.
   A.   The developer, land improver, land owner, or legal agent thereof
engaging in any land improvement or change covered by this article shall be
responsible for any and all construction activity as covered by approved
designs, plans, and data.
   B.   This section shall not be construed to exclude the contractor or his
responsible supervisor from providing installations in conformance with the
requirements and constraints of this article whether a part of the design
documents, or inadvertently excluded.
   C.   Upon determination and notification by the City Engineer or other
responsible City authority that construction or any part thereof is in
violation of this article. Such work shall be immediately discontinued and
shall not be restarted until corrected.
   D.   All facilities, structures, and installations made under the provisions
of this article shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner and using methods
and procedures that shall assure a quality installation. The construction of
any drainage system shall conform to the "Oklahoma Department of Transportation
Specifications for the Construction of Drainage Systems" as approved by the
City Engineer or other authorized City representative, unless specifically
approved otherwise by the City Engineer or other authorized City
representative. Materials, installations, and facilities that are not of the
required quality or conformance shall be repaired or replaced as determined by
the City Engineer or other authorized City representative.
   E.   The contractor shall provide barricades, guardrails, walkways, shoring,
warning signs and flashers, and such other measures as deemed necessary to
protect workmen; traffic, pedestrians, and any other person near or adjacent to
a hazard from injury or damage. Such protection shall be provided upon start of
a hazard area operation and shall be fully maintained until there is no longer
a hazard and approval has been given for removal of the protection, signing
shall be in accordance with Part VI-Traffic Controls for Street and Highway
Construction and Maintenance Operations of the current Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices. The contractor shall, at his own expense, provide and
maintain the appropriate traffic control devices.
   F.   The structural integrity of all drainage structures shall be maintained
during all phases of construction.
   G.   A construction permit must be obtained from the City according to this
section prior to the start of construction any drainage system or improvement
which is owned or to be dedicated to the City, is to be constructed on a City
right-of-way or easement, is a required "off-site" improvement of the platting
process, or is otherwise required by the City. Construction inspections shall
be made during and after construction by the City and shall serve as the basis
of all approvals or disapprovals.
   H.   The erosion and sedimentation control plan shall be implemented using
the "Best Management Practices" as adopted by the U.S. Soil Conservation
Service of McClain County and any subsequent revisions to that document.
   I.   A flood plan permit is required to be obtained prior to any
construction activity within the one hundred (100) year floodplain as required
by the flood hazard zoning ordinance.
(Ord. No. 02-08, § 6, 5-6-2002)
Sec 110-257 Enforcement And Penalty
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation violation any provision of this
article shall be fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense, a separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each day a violation continues.
   B.   During all construction activity, developers, property owners, and
contractors shall be required to keep streets, gutters, inlets, drainage pipes,
swales, ditches, drainage channels, and all drainage devices and structures
clean and free from debris, sedimentation, soil, and any materials. Any failure
to meet this requirement shall, upon notice and failure to immediately correct
the notified condition, constitute sufficient ground for stopping all work
until correction is completed.
   C.   Developers, land owners, or their legal agents, upon receipt of notice
by the City that repair or maintenance is required within a channel lying
within their property, shall be responsible for effecting such repair or
maintenance within the time specified, or the City shall have repair and
maintenance performed at the expense of the property owner.
(Ord. No. 02-08, § 7, 5-6-2002)
CHAPTER 114 VEGETATION
   
114-1   Penalty
   
114-2   Trees And Shrubbery To Be Trimmed
   
114-3   Injuring Trees, Shrubbery Generally
   
114-4   Cutting Trees To String Wires
   
114-5   Diseased Trees
Cross reference- Environment, Ch.
34; weeds; trash, §
46-111 et seq.; manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62; natural resources, Ch.
66; injury to plants and trees, §
70-39; public streets and trees, §
70-40; parks and recreation, Ch.
74; planning, Ch.
82; streets, sidewalks, and other public places. Ch.
90; subdivisions, Ch.
94; subdivision improvements for landscaping and natural features, §
94-217; tree trimmings, §
110-210; zoning, Ch.
122.
State Law reference- Trees, 11 O.S. § 22-122; injuring or destroying shade tree
or ornamental plant, 21 O.S. § 1784.
Sec 114-1 Penalty
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in Section
1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1991, § 14-119)
Sec 114-2 Trees And Shrubbery To Be Trimmed
   A.   The owner or occupant of any premises abutting on any street of the
City of Purcell shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking
between the sidewalks and the roadway of any such street and all trees and
shrubbery growing on any part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any
street or alley in such manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not
obstruct free and convenient passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks,
and alleys. When such premises are occupied by some person other than the
owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as
required in this chapter of the owner. Such trees and shrubbery shall be
trimmed so that the lowest branches or foliage shall not be lower than eight
(8) feet above the roadway of the adjacent street or alley, nor lower than
seven (7) feet above the sidewalk. The city shall maintain the area above the
driving surface of streets and alleys that have been dedicated and accepted by
the city to a height of no lower than fourteen (14) feet.
   B.   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse, or neglect to trim trees
and shrubbery as provided in this section, after receiving at least ten (10)
days' notice from the city manager, or his designee, to do so is guilty of an
offense against the city and subject to a fine in accordance with Section
1-12, as amended. Every day the owner or occupant fails, refuses, or neglects
to trim trees and shrubbery after the expiration of the ten (10) days' notice
shall be and is a separate offense.
(Code 1991, § 14-101; Ord. No. 17-14, § 1, 7-3-2017)
Sec 114-3 Injuring Trees, Shrubbery Generally
It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the City, provided that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Code 1991, § 14-102)
Sec 114-4 Cutting Trees To String Wires
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to cut, trim, or otherwise mutilate any
shade or ornamental tree on any street, parking, or other public place in the
City for the purpose of stringing wires or cables along or across the street,
parking, or other public place without first obtaining a permit from the City
Clerk, which shall be approved by the City Manager or his designee. The
trimming shall be under the control and supervision of the City Manager or his
designee.
   B.   Any employee of a telephone, telegraph, or other telecommunications
company or electric company operating in this City and using any of the streets
and alleys of this City for the erection and maintenance of their lines, poles,
and wires who shall willfully, negligently, unnecessarily, or without due
regard to the rights of owners of abutting property injure, destroy, maim, cut
the branches from, climb with climbing irons or otherwise, or in any manner
disfigure or debark any shade or ornamental tree growing upon or along any of
the streets or alleys of this City shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   C.   Any manager, owner, supervisor, or other person having the control or
management of any such telephone, telegraph, telecommunications company, or
electric company who shall order, advise, or counsel any person in the employ
or under the control and authority of such company to violate any of the
provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   D.   It shall be a sufficient defense, in any prosecution under this
section, for the person accused to prove that it was necessary to climb, cut
branches from, or otherwise injure such tree in order to prevent great injury
to the tree, to disentangle wire, or to perform any other imperative duty, and
that he did only so much as was necessary, in as careful a manner and causing
as little injury as was possible under the circumstances; provided, however,
that such necessity arose by reason of the presence of the trees. It shall be
no defense to show that the trees were used as a matter of convenience or
expediency, where, were the trees not present, other methods would have to be
provided to attain the same end.
(Code 1991, § 14-116)
Sec 114-5 Diseased Trees
Upon determining that any tree is infected with any plant disease which is
contagious or infectious to trees or other plant life, the City Manager or his
designee shall at once notify the owner of the premises on which the tree is
situated to treat, disinfect, and remove such condition on such tree. In the
event the tree is suffering or has suffered from such disease to the extent
that its recovery from such disease cannot be effected, then such tree shall be
cut down and removed and all parts burned. Ten (10) days' notice, in writing,
shall be sufficient notice for the requirements of this section.
(Code 1991, § 14-118)
CHAPTER 118 VEHICLES FOR HIRE
ARTICLE 118-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 118-2 TAXICABS
ARTICLE 118-3 AMBULANCES
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90.
State Law reference- Municipal authority as to taxicabs, hacks, 11 O.S. §§ 22-
106, 22- 118; financial responsibilities of taxicab operators, 47 O.S. § 8-104.
ARTICLE 118-1 IN GENERAL (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 118-2 TAXICABS
   
118-26   Definitions
   
118-27   Penalty
   
118-28   License Required
   
118-29   Application For License
   
118-30   Form Of License
   
118-31   License Fee
   
118-32   Proof Of Liability Insurance
   
118-33   Revocation Of License
   
118-34   License To Be Visible
   
118-35   Taxicab Stands
   
118-36   Regular Place Of Business; Telephone
Sec 118-26 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Passenger means and includes a person merely riding in an automobile or
vehicle as distinguished from one operating the same.
   B.   Person means and includes a natural person, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership or limited partnership.
   C.   Street means and includes any street, alley, avenue, lane, court, or
public place in the City.
   D.   Taxicab includes any and all motor vehicles used for the transportation
or carrying of passengers for hire within the corporate limits of the City,
except vehicles engaged in interstate commerce and vehicles properly and
legally licensed by the Corporation Commission of Oklahoma to do a carrying
business between established towns and cities within the State.
(Code 1991, § 9-401; Ord. No. 01-10, § 1, 8-6-2001)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec 118-27 Penalty
Any person who violates any provision of this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in Section 1-12
of this Code. Each day's continuation of any such violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Code 1991, § 9-414)
Sec 118-28 License Required
No person, firm, or corporation shall within the City operate a taxicab in
intra-city business without first having obtained from the City Clerk a license
therefor and without having complied with all other provisions of this article
and the provisions of Title 47 O.S.
(Code 1991, § 9-402)
Sec 118-29 Application For License
Any person desiring a license for a taxicab shall make written application to
the City Clerk on a blank form to be provided by the City Clerk which shall
contain the following information and any other necessary and appropriate
information as may be required by the City Council:
   A.   Full name, address, and age of the applicant and permanent business
location; if a partnership, the name and addresses of all partners; if a
corporation, the names and addresses of all the officers and directors.
   B.   A complete description of each vehicle to be used, including the model,
vehicle identification number, State license number, and a statement of
ownership for each vehicle.
   C.   The trade name under which the applicant does or proposes to do
business.
   D.   The property damage insurance and public liability insurance secured to
cover each vehicle.
   E.   A schedule of passenger fares to be charged (also required to be posted
in the vehicle) and if it is intended to operate on zone rate or with meters.
If on zone rate, the distance and charge for each respective zone; if by meter,
the distance of the first charge and rate per mile or fraction thereof.
   F.   The names, addresses, and State driver's license numbers of all drivers
to be used in the operation of the business.
   G.   Any additional information as the City Council may require.
(Code 1991, § 9-406; Ord. No. 01-10, § 1, 8-6-2001)
Sec 118-30 Form Of License
The license issued shall be of a form prescribed by the City Clerk. The license
shall contain, at the least, the driver's name, license number, and the
expiration date of the license. The license shall be signed by the City Manager
and shall not be transferable except that a license may be transferred from one
taxicab to another of the same ownership, with the approval of the City
Manager.
(Code 1991, § 9-407; Ord. No. 01-10, § 1, 8-6-2001)
Sec 118-31 License Fee
The fee for such license shall be set by the Council by motion or resolution
for each taxicab and for each licensed driver. Licenses shall extend from July
1 to June 30, and the full license fee must be paid for any part of such year.
(Code 1991, § 9-403; Ord. No. 01-10, § 1, 8-6-2001)
Sec 118-32 Proof Of Liability Insurance
   A.   Before any license is issued to a taxicab owner or operator thereof,
such person shall file with the City Clerk, to be approved by the City
Attorney, an insurance policy specified as follows: An insurance policy issued
by an insurance company licensed and authorized to do business in the State,
providing liability insurance coverage for each and every taxicab owned,
operated, or leased by the applicant, with liability coverage not less than the
amount required under 47 O.S. § 8-104 for an injury or death, for each
accident, and for property damage. The insurance coverage shall be effective
whether the taxicab was at the time of any accident driven by the owner, his
agent, employee, lessee or licensee, and endorsed thereon on a form approved by
the City Attorney. The policy shall further provide that it cannot be cancelled
until written notice of the proposed cancellation has been filed with the City
Clerk.
   B.   Such policy must be approved by the City Attorney, and if approved,
shall remain in full force and effect during the period of the license issued.
If the policy is allowed to lapse after the issuance of the license, the
license will be revoked.
(Code 1991, § 9-404; Ord. No. 01-10, § 1, 8-6-2001)
Sec 118-33 Revocation Of License
A license may be revoked by the City Manager upon conviction of the licensee of
a violation of any federal or State law, or whenever a violation of any
provision of this Code or any ordinance of the City is shown. The driver shall
have the right of appeal to the City Council by notifying the City Clerk within
ten (10) days from the date of the notice of the denial, revocation, or
suspension, and thereafter presenting the matter at the next regular meeting of
the City Council.
(Code 1991, § 9-411; Ord. No. 01-10, § 1, 8-6-2001)
Sec 118-34 License To Be Visible
The license card referred to in Section
118-30 shall be affixed in a place in the taxicab so that same is visible to
any passenger.
(Code 1991, § 9-408)
Sec 118-35 Taxicab Stands
Any person obtaining a taxicab license shall be entitled to have set off two
(2) parking stands or spaces where the taxicabs may stand while waiting calls
or passengers. Such parking spaces shall be assigned by the City Manager;
subject, however, to the person first obtaining written permission from the
primary tenant of the land immediately adjacent to the space so desired. The
permission so obtained shall be renewed and re- filed with the City Manager at
the time of renewal of any taxicab license.
(Code 1991, § 9-409)
Sec 118-36 Regular Place Of Business; Telephone
Any person obtaining a taxicab license as herein provided for and doing intra-
city business with the City shall be required to have a regular place of
business and to maintain a telephone at the place of business.
(Code 1991, § 9-413)
ARTICLE 118-3 AMBULANCES
DIVISION 118-3-1 GENERALLY (RESERVED)
DIVISION 118-3-2 OPERATOR'S LICENSE
DIVISION 118-3-1 GENERALLY (RESERVED)
DIVISION 118-3-2 OPERATOR'S LICENSE
   
118-86   Definitions
   
118-87   Required
   
118-88   License Provisions
   
118-89   Health Officials' Duties
   
118-90   Insurance
Sec 118-86 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Ambulance means any ground, air, or water vehicle which is or should be
approved by the State Commissioner of Health, designed and equipped to
transport a patient or patients and to provide appropriate on-scene and en
route patient stabilization and care.
   B.   Department means the State Department of Health.
   C.   Emergency medical technician/basic means an individual licensed by the
State Department of Health following completion of a standard basic emergency
medical technician training program approved by the department, who has met
such other standards of competence and character as may be required, and who
has passed a standard licensing examination of knowledge and skill,
administered by the department. The licensed emergency medical technician/basic
is allowed to perform such skills as may be designated by the department.
   D.   Emergency medical technician/intermediate means an individual licensed
as an emergency medical technician/basic, who has completed an intermediate
training program approved by the department, who has met such other standards
of competence and character as may be required, and who has passed a standard
licensing examination of knowledge and skill administered by the department.
The emergency medical technician/intermediate is allowed to perform such skills
as may be designated by the department.
   E.   Emergency medical technician/paramedic means an individual licensed as
an emergency medical technician, who has completed a standard paramedic
training program, who has met such other standards of competence and character
as may be required, and who has passed a standard licensing examination of
knowledge and skill administered by the department.
(Code 1991, § 9-301(A), 9-302(D)(2), (4))
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 63 O.S. § 1-2505.
Sec 118-87 Required
No person shall operate ambulances within the corporate limits of the City
without first obtaining an ambulance operator's license, as provided in this
article, from the City Clerk.
(Code 1991, § 9-301(B))
Sec 118-88 License Provisions
   A.   Required information. Applications for licenses under this article
shall be made upon forms prepared by the City Clerk and shall contain:
      1.   The name and address of the owner of the ambulance;
      2.   A description of the ambulance, including the:
         a.   Make;
         b.   Model;
         c.   Year of manufacture;
         d.   State license number for the current year;
         e.   Motor and chassis numbers; and
         f.   Length of time the ambulance has been in use;
      3.   The location and description of the place or places from which it is
intended to operate; and
      4.   Such other information as the City Clerk shall find reasonably
necessary to develop a fair determination of whether the terms of this Code
have been complied with.
   B.   License fee. Application for a license issued under the provisions of
this article shall be accompanied by a license fee in an amount as set by the
City Council by motion or resolution.
   C.   Investigation. Upon receipt of an application, as provided for in this
article, the City Clerk shall cause an investigation to be made of the
applicant and his proposed operation.
   D.   Issuance. The City Clerk shall issue a license under the provisions
contained in this article, when it is determined that:
      1.   The public convenience and necessity require the proposed ambulance
service for which the application has been submitted. In determining whether
public convenience and necessity require the licensing of the proposed
ambulance service, the City Clerk shall consider the following:
         a.   Whether the public is adequately served at the current time;
         b.   The financial responsibility of the applicant;
         c.   The number, kind, and type of equipment;
         d.   The schedule of rates proposed to be charged;
         e.   The increased traffic congestion upon the streets of the City;
         f.   The demand which will result for increased parking space;
         g.   The preservation of the streets for safe use by vehicles and
pedestrians; and
         h.   Such other facts as the City Clerk, the City Manager, or the City
Council shall consider important.
      2.   The personnel have been licensed as provided in subsection (E) of
this section and premises have been certified by the appropriate Health
Department officials.
      3.   Insurance policies, as required by this Code, have been procured.
      4.   The applicant and all personnel are fit and proper persons to
conduct or work in the proposed business, as provided in part in subsection (E)
of this section.
      5.   All the requirements of the chapter and all other State laws and
ordinances have been met.
   E.   Personnel. Personnel licensed in the following levels of care may
perform such skills as may be designated by the department under their
classification:
      1.   Emergency medical technician/basic.
      2.   Emergency medical technician/intermediate.
      3.   Emergency medical technician/paramedic.
(Code 1991, § 9-302)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 63 O.S. § 1-2505.
Sec 118-89 Health Officials' Duties
The proper Health Department officials shall inspect the vehicles and premises
designated in an application under this article and shall certify their
approval to the City Clerk when it is found that such vehicles and premises are
suitable, from the standpoint of health and sanitation, for the conduct of an
ambulance business and that all State laws and local ordinances relating to
health, safety and sanitation have been complied with.
(Code 1991, § 9-303)
Sec 118-90 Insurance
An applicant under this article shall file with the City Clerk an insurance
policy, to be approved by the City Clerk, providing insurance coverage for each
and every ambulance owned, operated, or leased by the applicant for injury of
or death to persons in accidents resulting from any cause for which the owner
of the vehicle would be liable on account of any liability imposed upon him by
law, regardless of whether the ambulance was being driven by the owner, his
agent, or his lessee, and as against damage to the property of another,
including personal property under like circumstances, in addition to any
insurance required to obtain a State ambulance service license, in amounts to
be determined by the City Council.
(Code 1991, § 9-304)
CHAPTER 122 ZONING
ARTICLE 122-1 IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 122-2 DISTRICT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 122-3 (RESERVED)
Cross reference- Any ordinance consistent with this Code pertaining to changes
in the zoning map or rezoning saved from repeal, § 1-7(O); issuance of
certificate of zoning and certificate of compliance, § 6-72; zoning ordinance
to prevail, § 10-3; one- and two- family dwelling code, § 14-356 et seq.;
environment, Ch.
34; floods, Ch.
42; manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62; natural resources, Ch.
66; planning, Ch.
82; streets, sidewalks, and other public places, Ch.
90; subdivisions, Ch.
94; telecommunications, Ch.
102; vegetation, Ch.
114.
State Law reference- Buildings and zoning, 11 O.S. § 43-101 et seq.; board of
adjustment, 11 O.S. § 44-101 et seq.
ARTICLE 122-1 IN GENERAL
   
122-1   Authority
   
122-2   Purpose
   
122-3   Jurisdiction
   
122-4   Zoning Districts Established
   
122-5   Use Of Land, Building, And Structures Regulated
   
122-6   Definitions
   
122-7   Official Zoning District Map
   
122-8   Zoning District Boundaries
   
122-9   Zoning Of Annexed Territory
   
122-10   Enforcement And Administration
   
122-11   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-11.5   Restriction on Tobacco/E-Cigarette Retailers
   
122-12   Bed And Breakfast Establishments
   
122-13   Rezoning And Amendment Applications
   
122-14   Use Of Special Districts
   
122-15   Nonconforming Lots, Structures, And Uses
   
122-16   Nonconforming Lots Of Record
   
122-17   Nonconforming Structures; Nonconforming Use Of Structures
   
122-18   Nonconforming Uses Of Land
   
122-19   Miscellaneous Provisions
   
122-20   Violations And Penalties
Sec 122-1 Authority
The zoning standards contained in this chapter, together with all subsequent
amendments, have been prepared, adopted, and enacted pursuant to the authority
granted the City by the City Charter and by 11 O.S. §§ 43-101-43-109, 44-101-
44- 110, and 45-101-45-104.
(Code 1991, § 12-201(B))
Sec 122-2 Purpose
The zoning regulations and the districts established in this chapter have been
made in accordance with the City's comprehensive plan for the purpose of
promoting the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the City.
They have been designed to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories,
and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that may be
occupied, the size of yards, courts, and other open spaces, the density of
population, and the location and use of buildings, structures, and land for
trade, industry, residence, or other purposes in order to encourage the most
appropriate uses of land, maintain and stabilize property values, reduce fire
hazards, improve public safety, prevent undue concentrations of population,
promote the preservation of identified historic structures and districts,
lessen traffic congestion, provide adequate light and air, facilitate the
adequate provision of public utilities and facilities, encourage redevelopment
in existing neighborhoods and create a comprehensive and stable pattern of land
uses throughout the City.
(Code 1991, § 12-202)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 43-101.
Sec 122-3 Jurisdiction
The provisions of these zoning regulations shall be in effect within the
jurisdictional area of the Municipal Planning Commission of the City.
(Code 1991, § 12-203)
Sec 122-4 Zoning Districts Established
   Twenty-two (22) zoning districts are hereby established for current and
future use within the corporate limits of the City. Zoning districts currently
in use shall be as shown on the official zoning district map of the City. The
use, height, and area regulations as set out herein shall be uniform within
each district. The districts established in this section shall be known as:
   A.   A-1, Agricultural residential district;
   B.   R-l, Residential estates district;
   C.   R-2, Single-family residential district;
   D.   R-3, Two-family residential district;
   E.   R-4, Multifamily residential district;
   F.   R-5, Mobile home residential district;
   G.   R-6, Planned residential development district;
   H.   C-l, Central business district;
   I.   C-2, Office commercial district;
   J.   C-3, General commercial district;
   K.   C-4, Planned commercial district;
   L.   I-1, Restricted light industrial district;
   M.   I-2, Light industrial district;
   N.   I-3, Heavy industrial district;
   O.   IR-l, Institutional/residential 1;
   P.   IR-2, Institutional/residential 2;
   Q.   IR-3, Institutional/residential 3;
   R.   IR-4, Institutional/residential 4;
   S.   F-l, Floodway district;
   T.   F-2, Floodway fringe (overlay) district;
   U.   S-1, Special development conditions (overlay) district; and
   V.   H-l, Historic (overlay) district.
(Code 1991, § 12-204; Ord. No. 96-11, § 2(12-331), (12-332), (12-333), 8-5-
1996; Ord. No. 02-12, § 1(12-206), 8-5-2002)
Sec 122-5 Use Of Land, Building, And Structures Regulated
   A.   Land, buildings, and structures within the City may be used for any of
the purposes, functions, or uses specifically permitted in the zoning district
in which the land, building, or structure is located; no land shall be used
after September 11, 1978, nor shall any building or structure be erected,
altered, or converted after September 11, 1978, which is designed or arranged
for uses other than those specified for the zoning district in which the land,
building, or structure is located, as set forth in the regulations for each
zoning district, which follow in Article 2 of these zoning regulations.
   B.   All land, buildings, structures, or appurtenances located thereon
within the City which are used, erected, altered, removed, demolished,
converted, or occupied after September 11, 1978, shall be used, erected,
altered, removed, demolished, converted, or occupied in conformance with the
provisions prescribed for the zoning district in which such land, building,
structure, or appurtenance is located.
(Code 1991, § 12-205)
Sec 122-6 Definitions
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Abutting means having property or district lines in common; e.g., two
(2) lots are abutting if they have property lines in common.
   B.   Access means a way of approaching or entering property.
   C.   Accessory building or structure means a subordinate building or portion
of the main building, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant
use of the building or premises.
   D.   Accessory use means a use customarily incidental, appropriate, and
subordinate to the main use of land or buildings located upon the same
premises.
   E.   Addition means any construction which increases the size of a building;
an addition is a form of alteration.
   F.   Adult day care center means a facility which provides care for eight
(8) or more adults, eighteen (18) years of age or older, for six (6) or more
hours in a twenty- four (24) hour period. The term "adult day care center" does
not include facilities whose purpose is primarily educational, recreational or
medical treatment.
   G.   Adult day care home means a single-family dwelling, which is the
permanent residence of the operator, that provides care and protection for
seven (7) or less adults, eighteen (18) years of age or older, for part of a
twenty-four (24) hour period.
   H.   Advertising sign or structure means any cloth, card, paper, metal,
painted, glass, wooden, plastic, plaster, stone, or other sign, device, or
structure of any character whatsoever, including statuary, placed for outdoor
advertising purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post,
fence, building, or structure. The term "placed," as used in this definition,
includes erecting, constructing, posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing,
gluing, sticking, carving, or otherwise fastening, affixing, or making visible
in any manner whatsoever. The area of an advertising structure other than a
sign shall be determined as the area of the largest cross-section of such
structure.
   Neither directional, warning, nor other signs posted by public officials in
the course of their public duties shall be construed as advertising signs for
the purpose of this definition.
   I.   Agriculture means the use of land for agricultural purposes, including
farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses
for packing, treating, or storing the produce; provided, however, that the
operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal
agricultural activities. The operation of commercial feed pens, sales yards,
and auction yards for cattle or hogs shall be deemed an industrial use and not
an agricultural use.
   J.   Air rights means the rights to a space above a property, for
development, usually for a dissimilar use.
   K.   Airport zoning means a particular set of controls intended to protect
the integrity of an airport, its airspace, and its environs.
   L.   Airspace means the space above the land which might be subject to
division and sale either with or separate from the surface.
   M.   Alcohol and drug center, reformatory, residential treatment center, and
social rehabilitation facility means community-based residential facilities
providing diagnostic or therapeutic services, counseling, or treatment and long
term room and board in a highly structured environment for its residents for
alcoholism, drug abuse, or behavioral disorders.
   N.   Alley means a minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, from which a
secondary means of access to the back or side of properties abutting a street
is obtained, not intended for general traffic circulation, and which may be
used for public utility purposes.
   O.   Alteration means a physical change in a building or an addition to it.
   P.   Assisted living facility means a facility where persons are housed and
furnished with meals and limited nursing care for a fee.
   Q.   Automobile wrecking or salvage yard means an area outside of a building
where motor vehicles are disassembled, dismantled, junked, or wrecked or where
motor vehicles not in operable condition, or used parts of motor vehicles, are
stored.
   R.   Basement means a story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of
height measurement, a basement shall be counted as a story when more than one-
half (½) of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground, or
when subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a
janitor employed on the premises.
   S.   Block means a parcel of land, intended to be used for development
purposes, which is entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad
rights-of-way, public walks, parks, rural lands, drainage channels, or boundary
lines of municipalities, and not traversed by a through street.
   T.   Board of Adjustment means a local quasi-judicial body, created by
ordinance, whose responsibility is to hear appeals concerning the strict
interpretation of the adopted zoning regulations and to consider requests for
variances under the terms of the adopted zoning regulations.
   U.   Boardinghouse means a building other than a hotel where, for
compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and
meals are provided for three (3) or more but not exceeding six (6) persons.
   V.   Buffer zone means a strip of land established to protect one (1) type
of land use from another with which it is incompatible. A buffer zone is
comprised of a buffer use which may, in addition to the normal range of open
space and landscaping uses, take the form of "transitional" uses, structures,
and yards.
   W.   Building means any structure built for the support, shelter, or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattel, or movable property of any kind,
including any other structure; when separated by dividing walls without
openings, each portion of such structure so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
   X.   Building area means the space remaining on a zoned lot after the
minimum open space requirements (coverage, yards and setbacks) have been met.
   Y.   Building code means a collection of regulations adopted by the City
Council setting forth standards for the construction of buildings and other
structures for the purpose of protecting the health, safety, and general
welfare of the public.
   Z.   Building coverage means the percentage of the lot area covered by the
building. The building area shall include all overhanging roofs.
   AA.   Building height means the vertical distance from the average line of
the highest and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the
building to the highest point of coping of a flat roof, the deckline of a
mansard roof, or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip
roof.
   AB.   Building line means a line frequently drawn on a subdivision plat to
indicate the setback distance from the lot line. Note: This line does not
necessarily coincide with the actual construction line of a building or
structure, only a minimum requirement.
   AC.   Building Official means the official responsible for the use and
enforcement of the adopted building code of the City, as well as the review and
inspection official for building permit applications. The Building Official may
also serve as the plumbing and electrical inspectors for the City.
   AD.   Building permit means the permit required before construction can be
initiated. Building permit provisions are contained in this Code.
   AE.   Building, principal or main, means a building in which is conducted
the principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In any residential
district, any dwelling shall be deemed to be a main building on the lot on
which it is situated.
   AF.   Building sewer means that part of the sewer which conveys the sewage
from the building to a public sanitary sewer, private sanitary sewer,
individual sewage disposal system, or other point of disposal.
   AG.   Building site means a single parcel of land in one (1) ownership,
occupied or intended to be occupied by a building or structure.
   AH.   Carport means a permanently roofed structure, open on at least two (2)
sides, designed for, or occupied by, private passenger vehicles.
   AI.   Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible
extent with definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or
periodically flowing water.
   AJ.   Child means an individual under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   AK.   Child day care center means a facility which provides care for eight
(8) or more children for six (6) or more hours in a twenty-four (24) hour day.
The term "child day care center" does not include nursery schools,
kindergartens, or other facilities for which the purpose is primarily
educational, recreational, or medical treatment.
   AL.   Cluster development means a development pattern in which the uses are
built close together rather than spread evenly throughout a parcel as in
conventional lot-by-lot development. The term "cluster development" is used to
preserve open space, create workable land use mixtures, and save money by
building fewer streets and shorter utility lines.
   AM.   Compatibility means the characteristics of different uses or
activities that permit them to be located near each other in harmony and
without conflict.
   AN.   Comprehensive plan and master plan mean the officially adopted
comprehensive plan or plans for the City which provide long range development
policies, plans, and programs for the City and its developing areas, and which
include, among other things, land use and housing elements, traffic circulation
elements, and community utilities and facilities elements.
   AO.   Condominium means a form of individual ownership within a multifamily
building with joint responsibility for maintenance and repairs. In a
condominium, each apartment is owned outright by its occupant and each occupant
owns a share of the land and other common property of the building.
   AP. Congregate care residence means any building or portion thereof that
contains facilities for living, sleeping and sanitation, which may include
facilities for eating and cooking by other than a family. The term "congregate
care residence" shall include but not be limited to a shelter, convent,
monastery, dormitory, fraternity or sorority house. The term "congregate care
residence" does not include jails, hospitals, nursing homes, hotels or lodging
houses.
   AQ.   Convalescent home means a health facility where persons are housed and
furnished with meals and continuing nursing care for a fee.
   AR.   Conversion means the changing of the original purpose of a building to
a different use; for example, this may include a change from residential to
commercial as well as a change from low-density residential to higher-density
residential.
   AS.   Cooperative housing means a multiunit development operated by and for
its occupants. Individual occupants do not own their specific housing units
outright, but instead own shares in the enterprise.
   AT.   Correctional centers means a facility for the detention, confinement,
treatment and/or rehabilitation of persons arrested or convicted for the
violation of civil or criminal law. Such facilities include but are not
necessarily limited to an adult detention center, juvenile delinquency center,
prerelease center, correctional community treatment center, jail or prison.
   AU.   Dedication means the transfer of property from private to public
ownership under adopted subdivision regulations as a condition of subdivision
plat approval.
   AV.   Density means the number of families, persons, or housing units per
acre of land.
   AW.   Density transfer means permitting unused allowable densities in one
(1) area to be used in another area.
   AX.   Detention center. See Correctional, detention, juvenile delinquency,
and prerelease centers.
   AY.   Detoxification. See Residential treatment center.
   AZ.   Down zoning means a change in the zoning classification of land to a
classification permitting development that is less intensive or dense, such as
from multifamily to single-family or from commercial to residential.
   BA.   Drainageway means any depression below the surrounding land serving to
give direction to a regular or periodic current of water.
   BB.   Drive-in restaurant means any establishment where food or beverages
are sold to the consumer, where motor vehicle parking space is provided, and
where such food or beverages are intended to be consumed in the motor vehicle
parked upon the premises or where there is an option of consuming food in the
motor vehicle or within the restaurant building.
   BC.   Dwelling means any building, or portion thereof, which is used or
designed for residential purposes.
   BD.   Dwelling, attached, means a dwelling having any portion of each of one
(1) or more walls in common with adjoining dwellings.
   BE.   Dwelling, detached, means a dwelling having open space on all sides.
   BF.   Dwelling, multifamily, means a dwelling designed for occupancy by
three (3) or more families living independently of each other, exclusive of
auto or trailer courts or camps, hotels, or motels.
   BG.   Dwelling, single-family, means a building designed to be occupied by
one (1) family.
   BH.   Dwelling, two-family, means a budding designed to be occupied by not
more than two (2) families; also known as a "duplex."
   BI.   Easement means a grant by the property owner to the public, a
corporation, or persons of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   BJ.   Electronic smoking device means any device that may be used to deliver
any aerosolized or vaporized substance to the person inhaling from the device,
including, but not limited to, an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen, or e-
hookah. Electronic smoking device includes any component, part, or accessory of
the device, and includes any substance that may be aerosolized or vaporized by
such device, whether or not the substance contains nicotine. Electronic smoking
device does not include drugs, devices, or combination products authorized for
sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those terms are defined in
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   BK.   Extended care facility. See Convalescent home.
   BL.   Family means one (1) or more persons related by blood or marriage, or
a group of not to exceed five (5) persons, excluding servants, not all related
by blood or marriage, occupying premises and living as a single nonprofit
housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boardinghouse or
lodging house, hotel, club, or similar dwelling for group use.
   BM.   Family day care home means a single-family dwelling which is the
permanent residence of the operator that provides care and protection for seven
(7) or less children for part of a twenty-four (24) hour day. The term "family
day care home" does not include informal arrangements which parents make
independently with neighbors, friends, or others nor does it include caretakers
in the child's own home.
   BN.   Floating zone means a zoning district whose requirements are fully
described in the text of this chapter, but which is unmapped. The zoning
district may be mapped in response to an applicant's petition for a rezoning or
initial use of such zones. Floating zones most commonly refer to varying types
of planned unit development.
   BO.   Flood and flooding mean general and temporary conditions of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of lakes,
streams, rivers, or any other inland waters.
   BP.   Flood hazard area means the maximum area of the floodplain that, on
the average, is likely to be flooded once every one hundred (100) years; i.e.,
that has a one percent (1%) chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BQ.   Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map or plat of the
City issued or approved by the Federal Insurance Administration or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on which the boundaries of the floodplain area
having special hazards have been drawn.
   BR.   Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means the official map or plat of the
City issued or approved by the Federal Insurance Administration or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on which special flood hazard zones, for insurance
purposes, have been drawn.
   BS.   Floodplain means the land adjacent to a body of water which has been
or may be covered by flooding, including, but not limited to, the one hundred
(100) year flood.
   BT.   Floodplain management regulations means the full range of codes,
ordinances and other regulations, projects, and programs relating to the use of
land and construction within the limits of the floodplain. The term "floodplain
management regulations" encompasses the City's adopted zoning regulations,
subdivision regulations, and sanitary and building codes.
   BU.   Floodproofing means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to properties and structures subject to
flooding which reduce or eliminate flood damage to lands, water and sanitary
facilities or the contents of buildings in a flood hazard area.
   BV.   Floodway means the channel of a stream, watercourse, or body of water
and those portions of floodplains which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the floodwater or flood flow of any river or stream.
   BW.   Floodway encroachment lines means the lines marking the limits of
floodways on official federal, State and local floodplain maps.
   BX.   Floodway fringe zoning district means an overlay zoning district to
provide special regulations for reduction of flood losses in those areas of the
floodplain, outside of the floodway, which are subject to periodic flooding and
therefore require special consideration before development is permitted to
occur.
   Requirements of this overlay district are in addition to the requirements
contained in the basic, underlying zoning districts.
   BY.   Frontage means the side of a lot abutting on a street or way and
ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot, but not the ordinary side of a
corner lot.
   BZ.   Garage apartment means a dwelling unit for not more than one (1)
family erected above a garage.
   CA.   Garage, private, means a detached accessory building or portion of a
main building used for the parking or temporary storage of the automobiles of
the occupants of the premises, provided that not to exceed two (2) spaces may
be rented to persons not residing on the premises, and further provided that
not more than one (1) commercial vehicle per family dwelling on the premises
and not exceeding one and one-half (1 1/2) tons rated capacity may be parked or
stored therein.
   CB.   Garage, public, means a building other than a private garage used for
the care, servicing, repair, or equipment of automobiles or where such vehicles
are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale.
   CC.   Gasoline, service, or motor vehicle service station means any area of
land, including structures thereon, used for the retail sales of gasoline or
oil fuels, other automobile accessories, and incidental services, but not
including major repair, body work, painting, or automatic washing; such
stations may be located and operated in conjunction with quick-stop grocery
stores and when so located and operated shall be considered as a gasoline
station and not a grocery store.
   CD.   Group care facility means a facility which is required to be licensed
by the State and which provides training, care, supervision, treatment and/or
rehabilitation to the aged, disabled, those convicted of crimes, or those
suffering from the effects of drugs or alcohol. This type of facility does not
include day care centers, family day care homes, foster homes, schools,
hospitals, jails or prisons.
   CE.   Halfway house means a facility whose primary purpose is the
rehabilitation of persons. Such services include but are not necessarily
limited to drug and alcohol rehabilitation, assistance to emotionally and
mentally disturbed persons, and halfway houses for prison parolees and
juveniles.
   CF.   Historic district means an area designated by ordinance of the City
Council which contains one (1) or more landmarks or landmark sites as well as
those abutting parcels which the City Council has determined will fall under
the provisions of this chapter to ensure that their appearance and development
will be harmonious with such landmarks or landmark sites.
   CG.   Historic structure means a structure which is listed in the National
Register of Historic Places, which is certified by the secretary of the
interior to conform to national register criteria, which has been nominated for
national register status or which meets the criteria for nomination to national
register status as certified by the City Council.
   CH.   Home business or occupation means any occupation carried on only by
the inhabitants which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling purposes and does not change the character thereof, and which is
conducted entirely within the main or accessory buildings, provided that no
physical personal service is performed and no trading in merchandise is carried
on and in connection with which there is no sign or display other than one (1)
non- illuminated name plate not more than three (3) square feet in area
attached to the building, and that no mechanical equipment is used or activity
is conducted which creates any noise, dust, odor, or electrical disturbance
beyond the confines of the lot on which the occupation is conducted.
   CI.   Homeowner means a person owning and living in, or who will live in, if
the building is under construction, a single-family dwelling.
   CJ.   Homeowners' association means an incorporated, nonprofit organization
operating under recorded land agreements, through which:
      1.   Each lot or homeowner in a described land area is a member;
      2.   Each lot is subject to a charge for a proportionate share of the
expenses for the organization's activities; and
      3.   The charge, if unpaid, becomes a lien against the property.
   CK.   Hotel and motel mean any hotel, motel, tourist court, apartment house,
rooming house, or other place where sleeping accommodations are furnished or
offered for pay for transient guests if four (4) or more rooms are available
therein for transient guests.
   CL.   Housing code means a standard used to determine whether an old or new
structure is fit for human occupancy. Its purpose is to ensure maintenance and
improvement of existing housing to meet accepted standards. Also known as a
"maintenance code."
   CM.   Impact analysis means the process of evaluating a proposal's expected
physical or fiscal impact on its surroundings or on a community.
   CN.   Institutional building or use means a building occupied by a nonprofit
organization or a nonprofit establishment for the use of the public.
   CO.   Intensity means the degree to which land is used. Often used
synonymously with "density."
   CP.   Jail means a facility under the jurisdiction of a local governmental
entity for the confinement of persons awaiting trial or those convicted of
minor crimes.
   CQ.   Jurisdiction means the jurisdiction of the City Planning Commission
for purposes of zoning and subdivision review which shall include all lands
within the corporate limits of the City.
   CR.   Juvenile delinquency center. See Correctional, detention, juvenile
delinquency, and pre-release centers.
   CS.   Kennel means any lot or premises on which three (3) or more dogs, more
than four (4) months of age, are kept.
   CT.   Land development code means the land development code of the City
encompassing the City's adopted:
      1.   Permit regulations;
      2.   Zoning regulations;
      3.   Subdivision regulations;
      4.   Floodplain management regulations; and
      5.   Policies.
   CU.   Landmark means any building or structure which has a special historic,
architectural, or cultural interest, significance, or value as part of the
heritage, development, or cultural characteristics of the City, State, or
nation and which has been designated as a landmark pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter.
   CV.   Landmark site means any parcel of land of historic, geological, or
archeological significance due to its substantial value in tracing the history
of man or upon which an historic event has occurred and which has been
designated as a landmark site under the provisions of this chapter or any
parcel of land, or part thereof, upon which is situated a landmark.
   CW.   Laundromat means a laundry providing washing, drying, and possibly
ironing machines for hire to be used on the premises by customers.
   CX.   Loading space, off-street, means space logically and conveniently
located for bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected
to be used, and accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking
spaces are filled.
   Required off-street loading space is not to be included as off-street
parking space in the computation of required off-street parking pace.
   CY.   Lot means a parcel of land, intended as a unit for the transfer of
ownership or for development of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
regulations requirements for use, coverage, and area and to provide such yards
and other open spaces as are required. Such lot shall have frontage on a public
street and may consist of:
      1.   A single lot of record;
      2.   A portion of a lot of record;
      3.   A combination of complete lots of record and portions of lots to
lots of record or of complete lots of record; or
      4.   A parcel of land describe by metes and bounds, provided that in no
case of division or combination shall any lot or parcel be created which does
not meet the requirements of these zoning regulations or the City's adopted
subdivision regulations.
   CZ.   Lot, area, means the total horizontal area included within lot lines.
   DA.   Lot, corner, means a lot located at the intersection of and abutting
on two (2) or more streets.
   DB.   Lot depth means the average distance from the street line of the lot
to its rear line measured in the general direction of the side lines of the
lot.
   DC.   Lot, double frontage, means a lot which runs through a block from
street to street and has nonintersecting frontage on two (2) or more streets.
   DD.   Lot frontage means that dimension of a lot or portion of a lot
abutting on a street, except the side dimension of a corner lot.
   DE.   Lot, interior, means a lot other than a corner lot.
   DF.   Lot line adjustment means a relocation of the lot lines of two (2) or
more lots included in a plat which is filed of record for the purpose of making
necessary adjustments to building sites.
   DG.   Lot lines means the lines bounding a "lot," as defined in this
section.
   DH.   Lot, mobile home, means a parcel or tract of land for the placement of
a single mobile home and for the exclusive use of the occupants.
   DI.   Lot of record means a separate and distinct parcel of land designated
on a legally recorded subdivision plat or a legally recorded deed filed in the
records of the County courthouse.
   DJ.   Lot, reverse frontage, means a double frontage lot which is designed
to be developed with the rear yard abutting a major street and with the primary
means of access provided on a minor street.
   DK.   Lot split means any division of land by metes and bounds description
into two (2) or more parcels for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership and which constitutes a "subdivision," as defined in this
section.
   DL.   Lot, townhouse, means a lot shown on a townhouse plat and intended as
the site of a single, attached dwelling unit.
   DM.   Medical facilities means the following:
      1.   Convalescent, rest, or nursing home or extended day care facility. A
health facility where persons are housed and furnished with meals and
continuing nursing care for a fee.
      2.   Dental or medical offices or clinics. A facility for the examination
and treatment of ill and afflicted human outpatients; provided, however, that
patients are not kept overnight except under emergency conditions.
      3.   Hospital. A facility providing, health services for in-patient
medical or surgical care for the sick or injured including related facilities
such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, central
service facilities and staff offices which are an integral part of the
facility. A hospital can include more than one (1) building which may be
located on real estate separate and apart from the main facility.
      4.   Mental hospital. A facility authorized by law to provide care and
treatment for mentally ill persons including related facilities such as
laboratories, out-patient departments, training facilities, central service
facilities and staff offices which are an integral part of the facility.
      5.   Public health center. A facility primarily utilized by a health unit
for the provision of public health services including related facilities such
as laboratories, clinics, and administrative offices operated in connection
therewith and including the State Department of Health.
      6.   Sanatorium. An institution providing health facilities for inpatient
medical treatment or treatment and recuperation using natural therapeutic
agents.
   DN.   Metes and bounds means a system of describing and identifying land by
measure (metes) and direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of reference.
   DO.   Mixed use zoning means zoning which permits a combination of normally
separated uses within a single development, most frequently a "planned
development" or a multilevel structure.
   DP.   Mobile home means any single-family dwelling designed for
transportation on streets and highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other
trailers, both highway and rail, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or permanent
foundations, connection to utilities, and similar operations.
   DQ.   Mobile home park means any land or property which is used or intended
to be used or rented for occupancy by two (2) or more mobile homes, trailers,
or movable sleeping quarters of any kind.
   DR.   Mobile home space means a plot of ground within a mobile home park
designed for the accommodation of one (1) mobile home.
   DS.   Mobile home stand means the part of an individual lot or space which
has been reserved for the placement of or which will be covered by the mobile
home.
   DT.   Mobile home subdivision means unified development of mobile home lots
which has been subdivided for the purpose of individual ownership and which is
governed by the provisions of this chapter, the City's adopted subdivision
regulations, and this Code.
   DU.   Modular home means a factory-fabricated, transportable building unit,
not built on a permanent chassis, designed to be used by itself or to be
incorporated with similar units on a permanent foundation. The term "modular
home" is intended to apply to major assemblies and does not include
prefabricated sub-elements incorporated into a structure at the site.
   DV.   Neighborhood commercial use means a commercial establishment whose
primary purpose is to provide services of a compatible nature with surrounding
residential uses to the neighborhood within which it is located. Such uses
include, but are not necessarily limited to, neighborhood grocery stores, but
not quick-stop groceries, barber shops and beauty salons, an alcoholic beverage
package store, a bar, a gas station or a tavern shall not be considered a
neighborhood commercial use.
   DW.   Neighborhood planning means the preparation and implementation of
plans, policies, and programs at a less than Citywide level and official and
formal participation in the planning and implementation process by organized
groups at a less than City wide level.
   DX.   Nonconforming building, lot structure or use of land, means:
      1.   Nonconforming building, lot or structure. Any building, lot, or
structure lawfully occupied or used on September 11, 1978, which does not
conform in part or wholly to any or all of the use, area, height, coverage,
off-street parking, or any other regulations of the district in which it is
located; and
      2.   Nonconforming use of lands. Any lawful use of land, existing on
September 11, 1978, which does not conform to the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   DY.   Official zoning districts map means the official map on which the
current zoning status of all land within the corporate limits of the City is
depicted and which, along with the zoning text, comprises the zoning
regulations of the City.
   DZ.   One hundred (100) year flood means a flood which has a one percent
(1%) chance of occurring each year, based upon the criteria established by the
State Water Resources Board.
   EA.   Overlay zoning district means a set of zoning district requirements
that is described in the text of this chapter and is imposed in addition to
those of the underlying zoning district. The overlay zone mayor may not be
immediately mapped, but must be mapped eventually in order to be utilized.
Development within the overlay zone must conform to the requirements of both
zoning districts or the most restrictive.
   EB.   Parcel means a lot or contiguous group of lots in single ownership or
under single control and usually considered as a unit for purposes of
development.
   EC.   Parking space means a permanently surfaced area, enclosed or
unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one (1) automobile, together with a
permanently surfaced driveway connecting the parking space with a street or
alley and permitting ingress or egress of an automobile. For purposes of
regulation, the size of a parking space for one (1) vehicle shall consist of a
rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet by twenty
(20) feet, plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
   ED.   Percolation test means an indicator of the suitability of an area for
subsoil effluent disposal obtained by testing for the rate at which the
undisturbed soil will absorb water per unit of surface area.
   EE.   Permitted use means a use by right which is specifically authorized in
a particular zoning district.
   EF.   Planned unit development (PUD): The planned unit development (PUD) is
a special zoning district category that provides an alternative approach to
conventional land use controls. The PUD may be used for tracts or parcels of
land that are under common ownership and are to be developed as one (1) unit
according to a Design Statement and a Master Development Plan Map. The PUD has
no limitations on minimum or maximum size; however, the PUD typically includes
multiple tracts that can be regulated under different base zoning districts and
includes significant modifications to conventional zoning and land use
regulations. The PUD requires complex analysis and is subject to special review
procedures and, once approved by the City Council, becomes a special zoning
classification for the property it represents.
   EG.   Planning Commission means the Municipal Planning Commission or the
Regional Planning Commission of the City.
   EH.   Plat means a map, generally of a subdivision, showing the location,
boundaries, and ownership of designated properties.
   EI.   Playgrounds means any area used for outdoor play or recreation,
especially children, and often containing recreational equipment such as slides
and swings.
   EJ.   Policy means a statement or document of a public body that forms the
basis for enacting legislation or making decisions.
   EK.   Pre-release center. See Correctional, detention, juvenile delinquency,
and prerelease centers.
   EL.   Preservation means the process of sustaining the form and extent of a
structure essentially as it now exists. The term "preservation" aims at halting
further deterioration and providing structural stability, but does not
contemplate significant rebuilding.
   EM.   Principal use means the main use of land or structures as
distinguished from a secondary or accessory use.
   EN.   Prison means a facility for the confinement of persons convicted of
serious crimes.
   EO.   Privacy fence means a fence a minimum of six (6) feet but not more
than eight (8) feet in height made of wood, masonry, metal, stockade poles, or
other suitable material or consisting of evergreen vegetation a minimum of six
(6) feet in height which must be maintained in a sight proof condition and
retained in a presentable appearance.
   EP.   Private or restrictive covenants means any specification limiting the
transfer, rental, or lease of any dwelling because of race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, age, handicap, familial status.
   EQ.   Recreational vehicle means any motor home or other vehicle or portable
structure that is:
      1.   Built on a chassis.
      2.   Self-propelled or towed.
      3.   Designed and equipped to serve as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, or travel purposes.
      4.   Used solely as a family or personal conveyance.
   ER.   Recreational vehicle park means any tract of land upon which two (2)
or more recreational vehicles, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are
located, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   ES.   Rehabilitation means the process of returning a structure to a state
of utility through repair or alteration which makes possible an efficient
contemporary use. In rehabilitation, those portions of the property which are
important in illustrating historic, architectural, and cultural values are
preserved or restored.
   ET.   Restoration means the process of accurately recovering the form and
details of a structure as it appeared at a particular period of time by
removing later work and by replacing missing original work.
   EU.   Rezoning means an amendment to or a change in the zoning regulations.
   Rezonings can take three (3) forms:
      1.   A comprehensive revision or modification of the zoning regulations
text and map;
      2.   A text change in zoning district requirements; and
      3.   A change in the zoning district designation of a particular parcel
or parcels, as shown on the official zoning districts map.
   EV.   Right-of-way means a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied
by a street, crosswalk, railroad, roadway, electric transmission line, oil or
gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or another
special use.
   EW.   Roadway means the portion of any street designated for vehicular
traffic; where curbs are in place, that portion of the street between the
curbs.
   EX.   Rooming house means a building where lodging only is provided for
compensation to three (3) or more, but not exceeding six (6), persons;
buildings holding more than six (6) persons shall be defined as a "hotel,"
under the terms of this chapter.
   EY.   Septic tank means a watertight receptacle which receives the discharge
of sewage from a building sewer and is designed and constructed so as to permit
deposition of the settleable solids from the liquid, digestion of the
detention, and discharge of the liquid portion into a disposal area.
   EZ.   School means any property, building, permanent structure, facility,
auditorium, stadium, arena, or recreational facility owned, leased or under the
control of a public school district or private school or any educational
facility that is accredited by the state of Oklahoma.
      1.   School includes all licensed childcare facilities, kindergartens,
elementary schools, which may include either K-6 or K-8, and all secondary
schools.
      2.   School includes any institution within the Oklahoma State System of
Higher Education or any other public or private college or university that is
accredited by a national accrediting body.
   FA.   Setback means the distance between the lot line and the building line.
   FB.   Setback, front yard, means the minimum horizontal distance between the
street easement line (front lot line) and the main building or structure,
including a garage or any projection thereof other than steps, required to
create a yard extending across the front of a lot between the side lot lines.
   Note- The platted "building line" need not coincide with the town's minimum
setback line in all cases. See building line. See also Yard, front.
   FC.   Setback, rear yard, means the minimum horizontal distance between the
rear lot line (alley easement line, if one exists) and the rear of the main
building or any projections other than eaves, steps, unenclosed balconies or
unenclosed porches, required to create a yard extending across the rear of the
lot and measured between side lot lines. On corner lots, the rear yard shall be
considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall in all
cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard. See Yard, rear.
   FD.   Setback, side yard, means the minimum horizontal distance between a
side lot line and the side of the main building, or any projections thereof
other than steps and two (2) foot eaves, required to create a side yard
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line. See Yard, side.
   FE.   Site means a tract of land intended, or suitable for, development; the
area upon which a building or town has been built.
   FF.   Sight proof fence means a barrier consisting of, but not limited to,
wood, metal, plastic, or vegetation.
   FG.   Solar collector means any device or combination of devices or elements
which rely upon sunshine as an energy source and which are capable of
collecting not less than twenty-five thousand (25,000) BTUs on a clear winter
solstice day. The term "solar collector" also includes any substance or device
which collects solar energy for use in:
      1.   The heating or cooling of a structure or building;
      2.   The heating or pumping of water;
      3.   Industrial, commercial or, agricultural processes; or
      4.   The generation of electricity.
   A solar collector may be used for purposes in addition to the collection of
solar energy. These uses include, but are not limited to, serving as a
structural member or part of a roof of a building or structure and serving as a
window or wall.
   FH.   Solar right means a right to an unobstructed line-of-sight path from a
solar collector to the sun, which permits radiation from the sun to impinge
directly on the solar collector.
   FI.   Special district means a zoning district established to accommodate a
special set of uses or for special purposes; for example, certain types of
planned districts, overlay districts, or historic districts.
   FJ.   Spot zoning means zoning a relatively small area differently from the
zoning of the surrounding area; the term "spot zoning" can be appropriate or
inappropriate, based upon whether or not the nature of the change is
appropriate or arbitrary and inappropriate.
   FK.   Start of construction means the first placement of permanent
construction on a site, such as the pouring of footings or any work beyond the
stage of excavation. For a structure without a basement or poured footings, the
start of construction includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the
structure or any part thereof on its pilings or foundation or the affixing of
any prefabricated structure or mobile home on its permanent site. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation; land clearing; grading or
filling; excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations; erection of
temporary forms; the installation of piling under proposed subsurface footing;
installation of sewer, gas, or water pipes or electric or other service lines
from the street; or existence on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling unit or not a part of the main
structure.
   FL.   Story means that portion of a building, other than a basement,
included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next
above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor
and the ceiling next above it.
   FM.   Story, half, means a space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three (3) feet above
the top floor level and in which space not more than two-thirds (2/3) of the
floor area is finished off for use. A half-story containing independent
apartment or living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   FN.   Street means any public or private right-of-way which affords the
primary means of access to abutting property.
   FO.   Street classification means that for the purpose of providing for the
development of all traffic ways and rights-of-way in the City, and for their
future improvement, reconstruction, realignment, and necessary widening, each
existing traffic way and right-of-way has been designated and arranged or
organized according to category within the comprehensive plan for the City.
   FP.   Street, commercial or industrial, means a street which abuts property
zoned for commercial or industrial use and which is designed to provide access
to those parcels so designated.
   FQ.   Street, half, means any street platted twenty-five (25) feet or more
in width, where, at the time of the approval of the plat, it is the intent of
the City Council that the street dedication shall constitute only a part of the
total street easement width.
   FR.   Street, intersecting, means any street which joins another street at
an angle, whether or not it crosses the other.
   FS.   Street, major, means an arterial street which is so designated on the
City's major streets plan and is designed to carry intercity traffic and to
relate the various neighborhoods or residential areas within the City.
   FT.   Street, minor, means any street other than one designated as a major
street in the City's major streets plan, but not including alleys.
   FU.   Street, perimeter, means any existing street to which the parcel of
land to be subdivided abuts on only one (1) side.
   FV.   Structural alterations means any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or
any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   FW.   Structure means a building which is used for residential, business,
agricultural, religious, or other purposes, which is occupied by a private,
nonprofit organization, or which is owned by State or local government or an
agency thereof. The term "structure" includes a building while in the course of
construction, alteration, or repair, but does not include building materials or
supplies intended for use in such construction, alteration, or repair unless
such materials or supplies are within an enclosed building on the premises.
   FX.   Subdivision means the division or re-division of land, vacant or
improved, or airspace into two (2) or more lots tracts, parcels, sites, areas,
units, or plots, anyone of which, when divided, has an area of less than ten
(10) acres, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for development or the
dedication, vacation, or realignment of any public or private right-of-way
easement.
   FY.   Subdivision regulations or chapter means the officially adopted
subdivision regulations for the City designed to provide standards for the
subdivision of land within the jurisdictional area of the Planning Commission
of the City.
   FZ.   Substantial improvement means any repair, reconstruction, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the actual cash value of the structure either before the improvement
is started or, if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. Substantial improvement is started when the first
alteration of any structural part of the building commences.
   GA.   Superblock means an unusually large block, commonly found where
building clustering is permitted.
   GB.   Tobacco product means any product that is made from or derived from
tobacco, or that contains nicotine, that is intended for human consumption or
is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled or ingested by any other means, including, but not limited to, a
cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. "Tobacco
product" also means electronic smoking devices and any component or accessory
used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters, rolling papers,
pipes, and liquids used in electronic smoking devices, whether or not they
contain nicotine. Tobacco product does not include drugs, devices, or
combination products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act.
   GC.   Townhouse means one (1) of a series of two (2) or more attached
dwelling units separated from one another by continuous, vertical walls without
openings from basement floor to the roof deck and tight against the same or
through the roof and which are intended to have ownership transferred in
conjunction with a platted lot.
   GD.   Transitional uses and structures means uses or structures permitted
under the zoning regulations which, by their nature or level and scale of
activity, act as a transition or buffer between two (2) or more incompatible
uses.
   GE.   Urban service area means an area, identified through official public
policy, within which urban development will be encouraged during a specified
time period.
   GF.   Use means the purpose or activity for which a piece of land or its
buildings is designed, arranged, or intended or for which it is occupied or
maintained.
   GG.   Use permitted on review means a use deemed appropriate in a zoning
district, but only upon review of the proposed use by the Planning Commission
to determine whether or not specified conditions, as detailed in the zoning
regulations, are met.
   GH.   Used or occupied, as applied to any land or building, includes the
words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
   GI.   Variance means a device which grants a property owner relief from
certain provisions of the zoning regulations when, because of the particular
physical surroundings, shape, or topographic condition of the property,
compliance would result in a particular hardship upon the owner, as
distinguished from an inconvenience or a desire to make more money.
   GJ.   Vertical zoning means zoning which allows different uses to be located
at different elevations in the same building or structure.
   GK.   Vested right means a right which has become absolute and fixed and
cannot be denied by subsequent changes in conditions or regulations; for
example, there is no vested right to have a zoning district classification
remain the same forever, but once construction has legally been allowed and
initiated on a structure, there is a right to maintain that particular use
regardless of the zoning district classification given the property.
   GL.   Water surface elevation means the heights, in relation to mean sea
level (MSL), expected to be reached by floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies at pertinent points in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   GM.   Yard means an open space at grade between a building and the adjoining
lot lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the
ground upward. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of
the side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the least
horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
   GN.   Yard, front, means a yard extending across the front of a lot between
the side yard lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the
street line and the main building or any projection thereof other than steps.
When the dedicated street right-of-way is less than fifty (50) feet, the depth
of the required front yard shall be measured at a starting point twenty-five
(25) feet from the centerline of the street right-of-way.
   GO.   Yard, rear, means a yard extending across the rear of a lot measured
between lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear
lot line and the rear of the main building or any projections thereof other
than eaves, steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed porches. On corner lots,
the rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot
has its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard
shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   GP.   Yard, side, means a yard between the building and the side line of the
lot and extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the
minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main
building or any projections other than steps and two (2) foot eaves.
   GQ.   Zero lot line means a development approach in which a building is
sited on one (1) or more lot lines with no yard, conceivably three (3) of the
four (4) sides of the building could be on the lot lines, in order to allow
more flexibility in site design and to increase the amount of usable open space
on the lot.
   GR.   Zoning district means a section of the City designated in the text of
this chapter and usually delineated on the official zoning district map in
which requirements for the use of land and building and development standards
are prescribed.
   GS.   Zoning regulations or this chapter means the officially adopted zoning
regulations of the City.
(Code 1991, § 12-206; Ord. No. 00-06, § 1(12-206), 6-5-2000; Ord. No. 00-25, §
12-206, 11-6-2000; Ord. No. 01-02, § 12-206, 3-5-2001; Ord. No. 02-12, § 1(12-
206), 8-5-2002; Ord. No. 17-21, § 1, 11-8-2017; Ord. 24-03, § 1, 3-4-2024)
Cross reference- Definitions generally, §
1-2.
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. § 43-110, 25 O.S. § 1451, 63
O.S. § 1-1201, 82 O.S. § 1603.
Sec 122-7 Official Zoning District Map
   A.   Adopted. The City is hereby divided into districts or zones, as shown
on the official zoning district map, which, as now or after September 11, 1978,
amended, including all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter as fully as if the same
were set forth herein in detail.
   B.   Amendments. If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
changes are made in zoning district boundaries or other matter depicted on the
official zoning district map, such changes shall be made on the official zoning
district map within ten (10) days after the amendment has been approved by the
City Council, together with an entry on the map, made by the City Clerk, as
follows: "Change Number    , by action of the City Council on       , Ordinance
Number."
   C.   Conformity to procedures. No changes of any nature shall be made in the
official zoning district map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with
the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   D.   Maintenance. The official zoning district map shall be maintained as
the final authority as to the current zoning district status of land and water
areas, buildings and other structures within the City; however, the City Clerk
and the Chair of the Planning Commission shall also each maintain an individual
zoning district atlas, reflecting the current zoning district status of all
land within the City, as shown on the official zoning district map.
   E.   Authority to adopt new map. In the event that the official zoning
district map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret
because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the City Council may,
by resolution, adopt a new official zoning district map which shall supersede
the prior official zoning district map. The new official zoning district map
shall include amendments and may correct drafting or other errors or omissions,
but no such corrections shall have the effect of amending the original zoning
regulations or altering any subsequent amendments thereof.
(Code 1991, § 12-207)
Sec 122-8 Zoning District Boundaries
   A.   The district boundary lines shown on the official zoning district map
are usually along streets, alleys, property lines, or extensions thereof; where
uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the official
zoning district map, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines;
      2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines;
      3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following corporate boundary
lines shall be construed as following corporate boundary lines;
      4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be the centerline of the right-of-way, or, if no centerline is established,
the boundary shall be interpreted to be midway between the right-of-way lines
of such railroad;
      5.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in subsections (A)(1) and (2) of this section shall be so construed;
distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning district map shall
be determined by the scale of the map; and
      6.   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated by
official action, or whenever such area is franchised for building purposes, the
zoning district adjoining each side of such street, alley, or other public way
shall be automatically extended to the centerline of such vacated street,
alley, or way and all areas so involved shall then and henceforth be subject to
all regulations of the extended districts.
   B.   Where physical features on the ground are at variance with information
shown on the official zoning district map, or when there arises a question as
to how or whether a parcel of property is zoned and such question cannot be
resolved by the application of subsections (A)(1) through (6) of this section,
the property shall temporarily be considered as classified A-1, agricultural
residential district in the same manner as provided for newly annexed
territory; the issuance of a building permit and the determination of permanent
zoning shall be in accordance with the provisions providing for amendments to
the zoning regulations and official zoning district map.
(Code 1991, § 12-208)
Sec 122-9 Zoning Of Annexed Territory
   A.   All territory annexed to the City after September 11, 1978, shall be
automatically classified as A-1, agricultural residential district, except as
provided in subsection (B) of this section.
   B.   Owners or developers of land annexed to the City may petition the City
Council for a zoning district classification other than the A-1, agricultural
residential district, by following the procedures outlined in Section 122-13.
This process may be initiated at any time prior to, during, or subsequent to
the official annexation of the territory, but in all cases:
      1.   The procedures outlined in Section
122-13 must be followed; and
      2.   The passage, adoption, and publication by the City Council of the
ordinance indicating the zoning district classification or change shall not
occur until after the land involved has been officially annexed.
(Code 1991, § 12-209)
Sec 122-10 Enforcement And Administration
   A.   These zoning regulations shall be enforced by the City Building
Official or his designated representative, acting at the direction of the City
Manager, who shall review all building permit applications for compliance with
zoning regulations provisions.
   B.   It is a violation of these regulations for any person to change or
permit a change in the use of land, buildings, or structures, or to erect,
alter, move, or improve any building or structure, until a building permit has
been obtained from the office of the City Clerk, under the terms set forth in
this Code.
   C.   The zoning regulations requirement for a building permit shall not,
however, apply to the use or construction of farm buildings for agricultural
purposes or the planting of agricultural crops. Such buildings shall, however,
observe setback requirements of all City ordinances.
   D.   In the administration of these zoning regulations, the provisions of
the following sections shall be used to govern procedures for uses and
structures permitted on review, rezoning, and amendment applications, the use
of special districts, and the handling of nonconforming uses, structures, and
lots. Related administrative procedures for building permit issuance, review of
subdivisions, issuance of other required permits, and floodplain management
requirements are found in this Code of Ordinances.
(Code 1991, § 12-210)
Sec 122-11 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
Certain uses and structures listed in each zoning district as uses and
structures permitted on review shall be considered by the Planning Commission
and the City Council under the following procedures:
   A.   An application for a use permitted on review shall be filed with the
Planning Commission, through the office of the City Clerk;
   B.   The minimum fee for filing of a use permitted on review application
with the City Clerk shall be established by City Council resolution;
   C.   This application shall contain the location and proposed use of the
site, the names of all property owners, and the types of existing land uses
within three hundred (300) feet of the site, and any other pertinent material
required by the Planning Commission;
   D.   The City Clerk shall notify the Building Official and the Chair of the
Planning Commission of the application and cause the application to be placed
on the agenda for the next scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission;
   E.   The Planning Commission shall hold one (1) or more public hearings
thereon, giving adequate and legal notice to all adjacent property owners and
community residents;
   F.   The Planning Commission shall, within forty-five (45) days of the date
of application, transmit to the City Council its report as to the effect of
such proposed structure or use upon the character of the neighborhood, traffic
conditions, public utilities, and other matters pertaining to the general
welfare, as well as the recommendations of the Planning Commission concerning
the approval or denial of the application. Persons in attendance at the
Planning Commission's public hearing shall be informed at that time of the
probable meeting date at which the City Council will consider the approval or
denial of the application. The City Council may subsequently authorize or deny
the issuance of a building permit for the use or structure requested in the
application; and
   G.   Approval by the City Council shall not constitute issuance of a
building permit; application for a building permit shall be considered a
separate process.
(Code 1991, § 12-211)
Sec 122-11.5 Restriction on Tobacco/E-Cigarette Retailers
   A.   No business license by the City of Purcell Oklahoma shall be located or
operated at any place except at locations permitted by the town's zoning or
planning laws. The location of a tobacco/e-cigarette store is specifically
prohibited within three hundred feet (300') of any playground, school, or other
facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons under twenty-one
(21) years of age. The distance shall be measured as the shortest straight-line
distance from the property line of the proposed tobacco/e-cigarette store to
the property line of the entities listed below:
      1.   Public or private school.
      2.   Playgrounds.
      3.   Facility used primarily by persons under twenty-one (21) years of
age.
   B.   Curent license tobacco/e-cigarette stores within 300 feet of any school
are exempt from the amendment to the zoning ordinance. If a current license
tobacco/e-cigarette store is sold, then the new owner would no longer be able
to use the grandfather clause to obtain a license.
(Ord. 24-03, § 2, 3-4-2024; Ord. 24-01, § 1, 3-21-2024)
Sec 122-12 Bed And Breakfast Establishments
   A.   All bed and breakfast establishments are considered accessory
residential or commercial uses, and can only be established on review by the
Planning Commission.
   B.   There are two (2) basic categories of bed and breakfast establishments,
distinguished primarily by size.
      1.   Type I is principally used as a single-family dwelling with the
provision of guest lodging a secondary feature and must conform to all of the
following conditions:
         a.   May be permitted in residential (R-2, R-3 or R-4) or agricultural
(A-1) zoning district.
         b.   No more than four (4) guest bedrooms may be provided.
         c.   No individual cooking facilities may be installed in any guest
room.
         d.   Meal service is limited to resident guest only, except for
special events on site within parking limit.
         e.   The owner shall reside on the premises.
         f.   One (1) parking space shall be provided for the owner-operator,
plus two (2) spaces for each three (3) rooms, or fraction thereof, that serve
as guest bedrooms.
         If overflow parking cannot be accommodated on-street, additional on-
site parking may be considered.
         g.   To the extent feasible, parking should be located to the side or
rear of the structure. When front yard parking is used, no more than forty
percent (40%) of the required front yard shall be hard surfaced for parking.
All new parking areas are required to provide full retention of stormwater.
         h.   Any proposed additions must be compatible with the architectural
style and building materials of the dwelling. Additions which do not comply
with the applicable setback requirements may not be submitted to the Board of
Adjustment as a request for a variance.
         i.   A landscaping and screening plan must be submitted which enhances
the appearance of the site by reducing or screening all parking areas to
minimize their visual intrusion on abutting properties. No lighting or sign age
may be installed which has not been reviewed as part of the proposed
development plan. Low wattage or low-intensity light fixtures are preferred.
         j.   The use shall be inspected by the code enforcement and Fire
Department and shall meet all codes for plumbing, electricity, and fire safety.
      2.   Type II also serves as a residence, but because of the increased
number of guest rooms and additional parking, this category of use is not
appropriate in all residential districts. The following conditions must be
observed:
         a.   This type may only be permitted in multifamily dwelling (R-3 or
R- 4) districts or commercial districts.
         b.   One (1) guest room may be permitted for each two thousand (2,000)
square feet of lot area, up to a maximum of eight (8) guest rooms.
         c.   No individual cooking facilities may be installed in any guest
room.
         d.   Meal service is limited to resident guest only, except for
special events on site within parking limit.
         e.   The owner shall reside on the premises; except in a commercial
building, an employee may reside on premises.
         f.   One (1) parking space shall be provided for the owner-operator,
plus two (2) spaces for each three (3) rooms, or fraction thereof, that serve
as guest bedrooms. If overflow parking cannot be accommodated on-street,
additional on-site parking may be considered.
         g.   To the extent feasible, parking should be located to the side or
rear of the structure. When front yard parking is used, no more than forty
percent (40%) of the required front yard shall be hard surfaced for parking.
All new parking areas are required to provide full retention of stormwater.
         h.   Any proposed additions must be compatible with the architectural
style and building materials of the dwelling. Additions which do not comply
with the applicable setback requirements may not be submitted to the Board of
Adjustment as a request for a variance.
         i.   A landscaping and screening plan must be submitted which enhances
the appearance of the site by reducing or screening all parking areas to
minimize their visual intrusion on abutting properties. No lighting or signage
may be installed which has not been reviewed as part of the proposed
development plan. Low wattage or low-intensity light fixtures are preferred.
         j.   The use shall be inspected by the code enforcement and Fire
Department and shall meet all codes for plumbing, electricity, and fire safety.
(Ord. No. 99-03, § 1, 1-4-1999)
Sec 122-13 Rezoning And Amendment Applications
   A.   Right to petition for change. Any person, firm, or corporation having a
proprietary interest in any property may petition the City Council for a change
or amendment to the provisions of the zoning regulations or official zoning
district map by obtaining, filling out, and filing a formal application for
rezoning or zoning ordinance amendment with the City Clerk.
   B.   Fees. The fee for filing such application shall include the notice and
publication costs of such application, the review costs incurred by City
personnel, and other administrative costs. The minimum fee for such
applications shall be as set by the City Council plus a fee plus per acre for
each acre over five (5) acres. The City Clerk may automatically increase the
fees due to increases in the costs of mailing or publication.
   C.   Notification of Planning Commission. The City Clerk shall notify the
City Building Official and the Chair of the Planning Commission and cause the
application to be placed on the agenda for the next scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission.
   D.   Commission consideration. The Planning Commission shall consider any
rezoning or zoning regulations amendment application at a regular, public
meeting prior to making and submitting recommendations to the City Council. At
least fifteen (15) days' notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City. Such
notice shall include a map of the area to be affected which indicates street
names or numbers, streams, or other significant landmarks in such area.
   E.   Public hearing. No rezoning, amendment, chance, or supplement shall
become effective until a public hearing shall have been held by the City
Council at which parties in interest and other citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard.
   Notice of such public hearing, to include the time and place of such
hearing, shall be given at least twenty (20) days prior to such hearing by
publication in the official newspaper of the City, and, in addition to
publication, notice shall also be given by mailing written notice signed by the
City Clerk to all owners of property within a three hundred (300) foot radius
of the exterior boundary of the subject property. Such notice shall be mailed
not less than twenty (20) days before the date set for hearing and the notice
shall contain:
      1.   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the City;
      2.   Present zoning district classification of the property and the
classification sought by the applicant; and
      3.   The date, time, and place of the public hearing.
   F.   Protests against proposed change. Protests against proposed changes
shall be filed at least three (3) days before the date of the public hearings.
   If protests are filed by:
      1.   The owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the area of the lots
included in a proposed change; or
      2.   The owners of fifty percent (50%) or more of the area of the lots
within a three hundred (300) foot radius of the exterior boundary of the
territory included in a proposed change; then the proposed change or amendment
shall not become effective except by the favorable vote of three-fifths (3/5)
of all the members of the City Council.
   G.   Initiation of studies or administrative proposals. The City Council or
the Planning Commission may, from time to time, initiate studies or
administrative proposals for changes or amendments to the zoning regulations,
provided that they are in the public interest, and provided also that, before
taking action on any such study or proposal, the City shall have submitted the
same to the Planning Commission for its recommendations and adequate and legal
public hearings shall have been held by the City Council.
   H.   Finalization of change. All amendments, changes, supplements, or
rezonings shall become final and effective upon passage and publication of an
ordinance indicating the amendment, change, supplement, or rezoning.
(Code 1991, § 12-212)
State Law reference- Similar provisions, 11 O.S. §§ 43-104, 43-105.
Sec 122-14 Use Of Special Districts
   A.   The City Council, acting subsequent to review and recommendation by the
Planning Commission, is hereby authorized to use the provisions of any of the
special districts (R-6, planned residential development district or C-4,
planned commercial district) provided in this Code, subject to the conditions
listed in subsection (C) of this section.
   B.   The primary purpose for using such districts shall always be to provide
for and encourage flexibility in the design and development of structures and
subdivisions in order to promote the most appropriate use of land; to
facilitate the adequate, efficient and economical provisions of streets and
utilities; and to preserve the natural and scenic qualities of open lands.
   C.   The conditions under which applications for such projects will be
considered are as follows:
      1.   The owner-developer shall make written application to the City
Council, through the Planning Commission, for the use of a special district;
      2.   The Planning Commission shall determine that such application would
serve to benefit the City;
      3.   Where such procedure involves lands zoned for residential purposes,
its application shall result in a permitted number of dwelling units which
shall in no case exceed the number which could be permitted, in the Planning
Commission's judgment, if the land were subdivided into lots conforming to the
minimum lot size and density requirements of the zoning regulations applicable
to the districts in which such land is situated;
      4.   The proposed site plan, including areas within which structures may
be located, the height and spacing of buildings, open spaces and their
landscaping, off-street open and enclosed parking spaces, and streets,
driveways, and all other physical features as shown on the plan, or otherwise
described, accompanied by a statement setting forth the nature of such
modifications, changes, or supplementation of existing zoning district
provisions as are not shown on the site plan shall be subject to review and
public hearing by the Planning Commission and the City Council in the same
manner as set forth in this article for the consideration of rezoning
applications; and
      5.   Where a new or unlisted use shall develop, the application shall
contain a statement of facts listing the nature of the use, the amount of
activity involved, type of product involved, if any, storage requirements,
anticipated employment, transportation requirements, if any, the amount of
noise, odor, fumes, dust, toxic material, or vibration likely to be generated
and the general requirements for public utilities.
(Code 1991, § 12-213)
Sec 122-15 Nonconforming Lots, Structures, And Uses
   A.   Within the zoning districts established by this chapter, there may
exist lots, structures, and uses of land, or structures which were lawful prior
to September 11, 1978, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted
under the terms of these zoning regulations or any future amendments thereto.
   B.   It is the intent of these zoning regulations to:
      1.   Consider such nonconforming uses to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the zoning districts involved; and
      2.   Permit these nonconforming uses to continue until they are removed,
but not to encourage their extended survival.
(Code 1991, § 12-214)
Sec 122-16 Nonconforming Lots Of Record
In any zoning district in which a lot of record exists on September 11, 1978,
or at the effective date of an amendment of these zoning regulations, which
does not conform in size or area to the provisions of these zoning regulations,
structures for the uses permitted in such zoning district may be constructed on
such lot, notwithstanding certain other provisions of these zoning regulations,
provided that:
   A.   Such lot is in separate ownership;
   B.   Such lot is not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same
ownership; and
   C.   Front, side, and rear yard requirements are met or a variance obtained
from the Board of Adjustment.
(Code 1991, § 12-215)
Sec 122-17 Nonconforming Structures; Nonconforming Use Of Structures
   A.   Where a lawful structure exists on September 11, 1978, or at the
effective date of an amendment of these zoning regulations that could not be
built under the terms of these zoning regulations by reason of restrictions on
area, height, yards, or other requirements concerning the structure, such
structure may be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following conditions:
      1.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its nonconformity;
      2.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it
shall not be reconstructed except in accordance with the provisions of these
regulations; and
      3.   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zoning
district in which it is located after it is moved.
   B.   If a lawful use of a structure or of a structure and premises in
combination exists on September 11, 1978, that would not be allowed in the
zoning district under the terms of the adopted zoning regulations, the lawful
use may be continued as long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by these zoning
regulations in the zoning district in which it is located shall be enlarged,
extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered, except in
changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the zoning district in
which it is located;
      2.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of these zoning regulations, but no such use shall be
extended to occupy any land outside such building;
      3.   Any structure or structure and land in combination in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the zoning district in which such structure is located and
the nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed;
      4.   When a nonconforming use of a structure or structure and premises in
combination is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive months, the
structure or structure and premises in combination shall not thereafter be
used, except in conformance with the regulations of the zoning district in
which it is located; and
      5.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
(Code 1991, § 12-216)
Sec 122-18 Nonconforming Uses Of Land
   A.   Where, on September 11, 1978, or at the effective date of an amendment
of these zoning regulations, lawful uses of land exist that are no longer
permissible under the terms of these zoning regulations as enacted or amended,
such uses may be continued so long as they remain otherwise lawful, subject to
the following conditions:
      1.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to
any other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective
date of the adoption or amendment of these zoning regulations;
      2.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased or extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of the
adoption or amendment of these zoning regulations; and
      3.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than sixty (60) days, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by these zoning regulations for the zoning
district in which such land is located.
   B.   A nonconforming use of a structure or of a structure and land in
combination shall not be changed unless changed to a use permitted in the
zoning district in which it is located, including a use permitted on review.
Such change shall be construed as an abandonment of the former nonconforming
use.
(Code 1991, § 12-217)
Sec 122-19 Miscellaneous Provisions
   A.   Group housing projects. In the case of public group housing projects,
in which the application of R-3, two-family residential district, or R-4,
multi-family residential district, provisions are impractical or inappropriate,
the Planning Commission may, with the approval of the majority of its members,
review the proposal under the terms and conditions of the R-6, planned
residential development district.
   B.   Sanitary sewer service. No structure or use in any zoning district
shall be erected or initiated which does not have a connection to the City
sanitary sewer system, unless and until the County Health Department certifies
that a septic tank or other approved disposal system can be installed and
operated effectively. As a basis for this decision, the Health Department may
require such soil percolation tests as it deems necessary. Such tests are to be
made at the expense of the property owner.
   C.   Street access. No principal building shall after September 11, 1978, be
constructed on a lot which does not abut a publicly dedicated street.
   D.   Use of solar collectors. Use of solar energy collectors is subject to
the restraints imposed by the topography within the corporate limits of the
City, existing trees, and the zoning district height and setback limitations
contained within the zoning regulations. No guarantee is hereby given that all
property within the corporate limits of the City is entitled to the use of
solar collectors; however, as a general policy, reasonable care shall be taken
to protect the opportunity for the utilization of solar collectors at all
available locations.
(Code 1991, § 12-218)
Sec 122-20 Violations And Penalties
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of these zoning regulations shall be punished as provided
in Section
1-12 of this Code for each offense. Each day upon which a violation is
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   In case any building or structure or land is constructed, altered,
converted, maintained, or used in violation of these zoning regulations, the
City, in addition to other remedies available, may institute any proper action
or proceedings to prevent such unlawful activities, in order to restrain,
correct, or abate such violation.
(Code 1991, § 12-219)
State Law reference- Injunction for violations of regulations, 11 O.S. § 43-
107.
ARTICLE 122-2 DISTRICT REGULATIONS
DIVISION 122-2-1 GENERALLY (RESERVED)
DIVISION 122-2-2 AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL, A-1 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-3 RESIDENTIAL ESTATES, R-1 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, R-2 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-5 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, R-3 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-6 MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL, R-4 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-7 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL, R-5 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-8 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT, R-6 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-9 CENTRAL BUSINESS, C-L DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-10 OFFICE COMMERCIAL, C-2 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-11 GENERAL COMMERCIAL, C-3 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-12 PLANNED COMMERCIAL, C-4 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-13 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
DIVISION 122-2-14 FLOODWAY, F-1 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-15 FLOODWAY FRINGE, F-2 DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-16 SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT CONDITIONS, S-L DISTRICT
DIVISION 122-2-17 HISTORIC, H DISTRICTS
DIVISION 122-2-18 MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
DIVISION 122-2-1 GENERALLY (RESERVED)
DIVISION 122-2-2 AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL, A-1 DISTRICT
   
122-71   Purpose
   
122-72   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures And Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
   
122-73   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-74   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-75   Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   
122-76   Special Requirements
Sec 122-71 Purpose
This district is intended to preserve land for agricultural and directly
related residential and commercial uses, discourage, premature suburban
development, and prevent inefficient and expensive extension of City utilities,
and is the only district in which a freestanding mobile home shall be
permitted.
(Code 1991, § 12-220)
Sec 122-72 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures And Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted principal uses and structures   Minimum required off-street
parking
      1.   General farming, forestry, ranching and other agricultural
activities and structures which are not in conflict with other ordinances of
the City   None
      2.   Single-family farm or ranch home on minimum 5-acre lot   None
      3.   Mobile home converted to real estate on minimum 5-acre lot, provided
such homes comply with all other City ordinances    None
      4.   Public parks and recreation or play areas for active usage   5
spaces for each acre developed
                                    25 spaces plus 1 space for every 4
      5.   Fairgrounds or rodeo arenas   seats in the main stadium or
auditorium
      6.   Elementary or secondary schools   1 space per classroom and office
plus 1 space for every 6 seats in main auditorium or stadium
      7.   Churches and religious temples   1 space per 4 seats in auditorium
      8.   Golf courses and country clubs except miniature golf courses or
commercial Driving ranges   3 spaces per green or 1 space for every 100 square
feet of clubhouse floor area, whichever is greater
      9.   Community-wide or neighborhood meeting, or recreation buildings   1
space for every 50 square feet of floor area
(Code 1991, § 12-221)
Sec 122-73 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions of these regulations and other City ordinances, the
following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the A-1, agricultural
residential district:
   A.   Farm buildings directly related to agricultural uses;
   B.   Private garages;
   C.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts;
   D.   Green houses and other related operations, provided that they are in
compliance with provisions for similar uses outlined in the C-3, general
commercial district of these regulations;
   E.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses, or structures of this district which do not involve the conduct
of business, other than "home occupations," on the premises;
   F.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work,
provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the
construction work;
   G.   Commercial stands operated on a temporary or seasonal basis, provided
that:
      1.   Such stands, as well as the surrounding area, are properly
maintained free from trash, weeds, and debris throughout the entire year; and
      2.   Such stands shall be set back from the roadway an adequate distance
to provide for safe parking, ingress and egress;
   H.   Solar collectors, whether as a part of a structure or incidental to a
group of nearby structures, when used for the purpose of providing energy for
heating or cooling of related structures; and
   I.   Transportation, pipeline, and utility easements and rights-of-way.
(Code 1991, § 12-222)
Sec 122-74 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit the following uses and structures on review:
   A.   Sanitary landfill or waste disposal area, provided that:
      1.   Refuse shall be covered daily with dirt;
      2.   Smoke, odor, or blowing trash or debris shall not be allowed to
create a public nuisance;
      3.   The operator agrees in writing to restore the site to a condition
compatible with the adjacent area upon conclusion of the landfill operation;
      4.   A gravel access road, as a minimum, shall be provided;
      5.   County and State Health Department approval for the site shall have
been obtained, in writing;
      6.   At least five (5) parking spaces shall be provided; and
      7.   No landfill or waste disposal area shall be located closer than one-
quarter (¼) mile to any dwelling, park, school, church, or place of public
assembly.
   B.   Public buildings, utilities, and railroads, but not including
unscreened equipment storage and maintenance yards or general administrative
and sales offices, provided that:
      1.   Any building or substation shall meet the front and rear yard
setback requirements for dwellings in the R-2, single-family residential
district, and provide side yard setbacks of at least twenty-five (25) feet; and
      2.   At least two (2) parking spaces per substation plus one (1) parking
space per employee at the site shall be provided.
   C.   Telecommunications facilities. See Section
102-2.
   D.   Farm implement display sales, service, and repair facilities, provided
that they are in compliance with all requirements for such uses outlined in the
I-1, industrial district, of these regulations.
   E.   Grain elevator, storage bins, and feed mills, provided that such uses
are in compliance with all requirements relating thereto outlined in the I-1,
industrial district, of these regulations.
   F.   Tourist trailer camps or parks, provided that such uses are constructed
in accordance with all City ordinances relating thereto.
   G.   Animal hospitals, dog kennels, or veterinarian services, provided that:
      1.   Such uses comply with all City codes and ordinances relating
thereto; and
      2.   They comply with requirements for such uses outlined in the I-1,
industrial district, of these regulations.
   H.   Airfields, airports, and landings strips.
   I.   Public stables, provided that such uses comply with all City codes and
ordinances relating thereto.
   J.   Oil and natural gas drilling operations or the extraction of minerals,
provided that the operation is conducted in accordance with all City codes,
ordinances and State laws relating thereto.
   K.   Cemeteries, or mausoleums.
   L.   Child or day care centers, provided that they are in compliance with
provisions for such uses outlined in the R-3, two-family residential district,
of these regulations.
   M.   Type I bed and breakfast establishments.
(Code 1991, § 12-223; Ord. No. 99-03, § 1, 1-4-1999; Ord. No. 01-03, 3-5-2001;
Ord. No. 14-07, § 1(ii), 7-7-2014)
Sec 122-75 Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   A.   Minimum lot area and width requirements for residential uses is five
(5) acres.
   B.   The following are minimum requirements for front, side, and rear yard
setbacks:
      1.   Front: forty (40) feet.
      2.   Side: twenty-five (25) feet.
      3.   Rear: thirty (30) feet.
   C.   The following is the maximum height requirement: none.
(Code 1991, § 12-224)
Sec 122-76 Special Requirements
All signs and billboards shall be maintained in a neat and presentable
condition, and, in the event their use shall cease, the area shall be restored
to a condition free from refuse, rubble, or debris.
(Code 1991, § 12-225)
DIVISION 122-2-3 RESIDENTIAL ESTATES, R-1 DISTRICT
   
122-101   Purpose
   
122-102   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-103   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-104   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-105   Lot Area And Height Requirements
   
122-106   Special Requirements
Sec 122-101 Purpose
This district is intended to provide minimum standards for low-density,
planned, single- family, detached residential development. This development may
occur in areas which can be effectively and efficiently served by the City
sewage collection and disposal system or it may occur in areas which are beyond
the existing or intermediate service area boundaries of the City sanitary
sewage collection and disposal system. Additional objectives of the provisions
of this district are to control sprawling, "leap frog" development, prevent the
depletion of possible City groundwater reserves through encouraged use of the
City water system, ensure adequate fire protection, eliminate the health threat
of improperly utilized septic systems, and provide adequate existing and future
utility, traffic way, and drainage easements in the developed area.
(Code 1991, § 12-230)
Sec 122-102 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted Principal Uses and Structures   Minimum Required Off-street
Parking
      1.   Single-family, detached dwelling   2 spaces per dwelling
      2.   General agricultural crops, but not the raising of farm animals,
except chickens   None
      3.   Neighborhood meeting or recreation building   1 space for every 50
square feet of floor area
      4.   Park, playground, or recreation area   4 spaces for each acre
developed area for active use
      5.   Elementary school   1 space per classroom/office plus 1 space per 6
seats in the main auditorium
      6.   City office building   6 spaces, plus 1 space for each employee
(Code 1991, § 12-231)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 18-06 on 7/2/2018
Sec 122-103 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions of this and other City codes and ordinances, the
following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the R-l, residential
estates district:
   A.   One (1) guesthouse per principal residential structure.
   B.   Private garage, provided that:
      1.   Such structure shall not encroach upon the front, side, or rear yard
setback requirements of the principal or main structure in this district; and
      2.   Such structure shall not encroach upon any utility, street,
drainage, or alley easement.
   C.   Private swimming pool, tennis courts, and recreation and play area,
either individually owned or operated on a nonprofit basis primarily for area
residents.
   D.   Private pumphouse.
   E.   Private greenhouse (not operated for commercial uses) and gardens or
areas for raising of agricultural crops, but not areas for the raising of
livestock except for Chickens. Chickens or laying hens may be kept and
maintained so long as the provisions of this code pertaining thereto are
complied with:
      1.   Such chickens or laying items are maintained on land upon which the
owner or occupant resides;
      2.   Chickens or laying hens may only be kept under the following
conditions:
         a.   No more than six (6) chickens or laying hens;
         b.   Roosters are not allowed;
         c.   The chickens are kept within a designated chicken coop and
chicken run;
         d.   The chicken coop and chicken run shall be located in the rear or
backyard of a residential property. No part of the coop or run shall be located
in the side or front yard;
         e.   The chicken coop and chicken run shall be attached and shall be
located no closer than ten (10) feet from any side or rear property lines and
no closer titan twenty-five (25) feet from any dwelling unit other than the
owner's. Movable chicken enclosures are permitted as long as they meet the
setbacks as indicated in this paragraph;
         f.   The minimum size for a chicken coop shall be four (4) square feet
per animal and the chicken run shall be eight (8) square feet per animal;
         g.   During daylight hours, the chickens shall have access to a
chicken run and a chicken coop;
         h.   Chicken coops shall be predator resistant and any open walls or
windows shall be designed to prevent access by predators;
         i.   Chicken runs shall be adequately fenced and protected from
predators;
         j.   Water shall be provided onsite and accessible to chickens at all
times;
         k.   All chicken enclosures shall be cleaned regularly to prevent an
accumulation of food, fecal matter, or nesting material from creating a
nuisance or unsanitary condition due to odor, vermin, debris, or decay.
      3.   Outdoor slaughter of chickens is prohibited.
      4.   Electrical and heat sources shall comply with the City's building
code.
   F.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers.
      1.   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to the
location and duration of use of portable storage containers and roll-off trash
containers as herein defined on any property within the City of Purcell.
      2.   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in
this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection.
Where terms are not defined in this section, and are defined in other adopted
ordinances, such terms shall have the meaning as ascribed to them as in those
ordinances. Where terms are not defined through the methods authorized by this
section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings as the context
implies.
         a.   Portable storage container means any self-supporting container,
usually metal or metal-framed, designed and used for the hauling and storage of
personal or business property of a non-hazardous nature which may be either
rented, leased or owned by owners or occupants of property for their temporary
use and which is typically delivered and removed by truck. Portable storage
containers shall include, but not be limited to, semi-trailers, tractor trailer
vans and/or van trailers, whether wheels and axles are attached or not
attached; self-storage containers and portable storage units (PODS); or any
other similar structures. Height and length measurements of these units are not
a determining factor of their control as all are included.
         b.   Roll-off trash container means a large metal container designed
and used for the temporary storage of refuse, rubbish, trash, garbage, junk,
debris, offal, or any material rejected as useless and fit only to be thrown
away. Such container is typically rented or leased to owners or occupants of
property for their temporary use and which is typically delivered and removed
by truck. This term shall not be interpreted to refer to a "trash container" or
"dumpster" that is stored in a more permanent manner on the property and is
required to be screened from public view. This term shall not be interpreted to
include recycling facilities.
      3.   Condition and maintenance. All portable storage containers and roll-
off trash containers shall be delivered and maintained in good condition, free
from rodents, insects, graffiti, vulgar and/or pornographic words or pictures.
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or occupant and the
supplying company to maintain the portable storage containers or roll-off trash
containers in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      4.   Placement and duration of use.
         a.   Temporary. On all property zoned or used for residential,
commercial, or industrial purposes, storage containers or roll-off trash
containers may remain in use only so long as a valid building or trade permit
is in place for the property on which the container is placed. No separate
permit is required so long as the use is indicated on the approved site plan or
building permit for the project. When no building permit is in effect, a roll-
off container and/or portable storage container may not be placed on a lot for
more than thirty (30) days unless authorized in writing by a code enforcement
officer. In residentially zoned areas, the container must be placed on the
driveway or other approved pavement, and may not extend into the public right-
of-way. Should existing site conditions not allow for the placement of a
portable storage container or roll off trash container in full compliance with
these provisions, exceptions may be considered and written approval granted on
a case-by-case basis by a Code Enforcement Officer of the City of Purcell.
         b.   Seasonal. Portable storage containers may be temporarily located
on property that is zoned for commercial or industrial use for no more than
three (3) months within the same calendar year, provided that a building permit
is issued for each such container. Containers cannot be vertically stacked, and
should not be placed in front of the principle structure, but must be located
at the side or rear of the structure to minimize any visual impact from
abutting streets. As a temporary use, they may occupy no more than ten percent
(10%) of the required parking for the on-site principal use.
         c.   Permanent. Storage containers may be permanently located on
property zoned or used for industrial purposes provided that a building permit
is issued for the container, which must be properly anchored or tied down to
resist lateral movement or overturning. If over four hundred (400) square feet,
containers must be placed on a permanent foundation. Containers may not be
permanently located in areas that are zoned commercial. Containers may not be
placed in front of the principle structure, must observe all required setbacks,
and may not be placed within any right-of-way, utility easement, or required
landscape area. In industrial areas, such containers are exempt from the
requirement to be clad in masonry material, but must be located at the side or
rear of the lot, and painted in a muted color that complements the principle
structure on the lot. If the lot is not already screened from abutting
residential uses, opaque screening must be installed to at least screen the
container from abutting residential use. Signs relating to the on-site business
may not be permanently or temporarily attached to any container that will be
permanently located on a site.
         d.   Residential. In areas which are residentially zoned, when no
building or trade permit is in effect for the property, a portable storage
container may be placed on the driveway or other approved pavement for a period
not to exceed fourteen (14) days, provided that the container is not located
within any public right-of- way and does not block any public sidewalk. The
Code Enforcement Officer may, but is not required to, grant one (1) fourteen
(14) day extension, for good cause, when requested in writing. A container may
not be placed on the same property more than three (3) nonconsecutive times in
a one (1) year period. Failure to remove a container after the initial fourteen
(14) day period, unless extended, may result in charges filed by the city for
failure to comply with this section. Such containers may not be permanently
located in areas that are residentially zoned.
         e.   Nonconforming uses. Any portable on demand storage unit in
existence as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this subsection
is derived which is in violation hereof shall be deemed a nonconforming use.
Such nonconforming uses shall not in any manner be enlarged, extended, or
altered except that such uses may be changed so as to comply with the
provisions of this subsection. Such uses as are deemed nonconforming uses
pursuant to the terms of this subsection shall be permitted to continue for a
period of one (1) year after the adoption of the ordinance from which this
section is derived, unless such use is terminated for any reason whatsoever
prior thereto for a period of ten (10) days or more, thereafter such
nonconforming use shall terminate or come into compliance with the terms of
this section.
   G.   Solar collectors, as a part of a structure, when used for the purpose
of providing energy for heating or cooling of related principal structures.
   H.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses and structure in this district, provided that:
   I.   Such structures and uses shall not involve the conduct of business,
except home occupations, on the premises.
      1.   Such structures and uses shall not include barns or sheds for the
keeping of livestock or other agriculturally related machinery or material;
except for chickens;
      2.   Such structures and uses shall not encroach upon the front, side, or
rear yard setback requirements of the principal or main structures in this
district; and
      3.   Such structures shall not encroach upon any alley, utility, or
drainage easement.
(Code 1991, § 12-232; Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 18-06 on 7/2/2018
Sec 122-104 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit the following uses and structures on review:
   A.   Golf courses and country clubs, but not miniature golf courses or
commercial driving ranges operated separately from golf courses, provided that:
      1.   Off-street parking is in conformance with requirements for such uses
outlined in the A-1, agricultural residential district; and
      2.   Primary access thereto shall not be from reduced-standard
residential estates streets.
   B.   Public utility or facility buildings, but not including open equipment
storage, maintenance yards, or general administrative and sales offices,
provided that:
      1.   Any building, structure, or substation shall meet the front and rear
yard setback requirements for single-family dwellings in this district and
shall provide side yard setbacks of not less than twenty-five (25) feet;
      2.   Two (2) parking spaces per structure or per one (1) employee on the
site, whichever is the greater, shall be provided; and
      3.   Primary access thereto shall not be from reduced-standard
residential estates streets.
   C.   Churches and religious temples, but not including missions or revival
tents or arbors, provided that:
      1.   Parking requirements for such uses, detailed in the A-1,
agricultural residential district, shall met;
      2.   The front, side, and rear yard setback requirements for such uses,
detailed in this district, shall be met; and
      3.   Primary access thereto shall not be from reduced-standard
residential estates streets.
   D.   The keeping of not more than two horses, provided that:
      1.   Such animals shall be kept at least eighty (80) feet from the front
lot line and shall be confined within the property lines by means of a suitable
fence;
      2.   Any corral or pen shall not be located nearer than twenty-five (25)
feet to any property line; and
      3.   Excrement from all horses shall be disposed of in an acceptable
manner to prevent the breeding of insects or the creation of a nuisance or
health hazard.
   E.   Additional horses may be permitted, provided that one (1) additional
acre of lot area, over the required initial one (1) acre, shall be required for
each additional horse.
(Code 1991, § 12-233)
Sec 122-105 Lot Area And Height Requirements
   A.   The following are the minimum lot area and width requirements for:
      1.   Single-family dwelling:
         a.   Area: One (1) acre.
         b.   Width: One hundred fifty (150) feet at the building line. All
lots shall abut a public street for a minimum distance of fifty (50) feet.
      2.   Schools, public, and other institutional buildings:
         a.   Area: Shall be adequate to provide yard areas required by setback
provisions.
         b.   Width: Shall be adequate to provide yard areas required by
setback provisions.
   B.   The following are the minimum requirements for front, side, and rear
yard setbacks for:
      1.   Single-family dwelling:
         a.   Front, all lots: Forty (40) feet. Double street frontage lots
shall provide a front yard setback on both streets;
         b.   Rear: Thirty (30) feet.
         c.   Side.
            (1)   Interior lot or side: Twenty-five (25) feet.
            (2)   Street side, corner lot: Forty (40) feet.
      2.   Schools, public, and other institutional buildings:
         a.   Front: Forty-five (45) feet.
         b.   Rear: Thirty-five (35) feet.
         c.   Side: Thirty (30) feet.
   C.   Maximum height requirements.
      1.   Single-family dwelling: Two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five
(35) feet.
      2.   Schools, public and other institutional buildings: Two and one-half
(2½) stories or thirty-five (35) feet.
(Code 1991, § 12-234)
Sec 122-106 Special Requirements
   A.   Sight triangle restrictions. Hedges, shrubbery, or bushes of more than
three (3) feet in height shall not be planted, placed, or maintained on a
corner so as to restrict the vision of drivers, persons on bicycles, or
pedestrians. This type of unobstructed area is commonly referred to as a "site
triangle."
   B.   Signs. All signs, including temporary signs, shall be maintained in a
neat and presentable condition and, in the event their use shall cease, they
shall be promptly removed and the surrounding area restored to a condition free
from refuse and trash.
   C.   Uses permitted upon review. When the Planning Commission considers an
application for a use permitted on review in this district, it shall consider
the impact of the proposal upon surrounding properties and the potential for
increased traffic upon lower-standard residential estate streets. If, in the
opinion of the commission, any proposed use will generate an unreasonable
increase in the flow of traffic into a residential estates development or
create situations where heavier vehicles will use the streets more frequently
than under normal use and conditions, the Planning Commission shall deny the
application. It is the intent of these regulations that all uses permitted on
review be located on high standard streets or have access from a major street.
   D.   Lot coverage. Principal and accessory buildings shall not cover more
than twenty percent (20%) of the lot area of any lot within this district.
   E.   Reduction of lot sizes. Reduction of sizes through lot splits, etc., in
areas within the R-1, residential estates district, shall not be permitted:
      1.   Until such time as higher quality streets are provided; or
      2.   Unless both resulting lots will equal or exceed the basic
requirements of this district's provisions and such action will not overload
existing street systems.
   F.   Sight proof fencing. Sight proof fencing shall not be erected within
the building line setback of the adjoining street. However, an exception may be
requested in writing by the property owner and sent to the Planning Commission
for review.
(Code 1991, § 12-235; Ord. No. 12-10, § I, 10-1-2012)
DIVISION 122-2-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, R-2 DISTRICT
   
122-131   Purpose
   
122-132   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-133   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-134   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-135   Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   
122-136   Special Requirements
Sec 122-131 Purpose
This district is intended to provide minimum standards for predominantly
single-family residential development located within the City's major drainage
basin, accompanied by related recreational, religious and educational
facilities. Primary objectives of the regulations in this district are to
protect stable residential neighborhoods from uses which do not contribute to a
residential environment and to encourage planned, contiguous development.
(Code 1991, § 12-240)
Sec 122-132 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted principal uses and structures   Minimum required off-street
parking
      1.   Detached, single-family dwelling   2 spaces per dwelling
      2.   Community-wide or neighborhood meeting, or recreation buildings   1
space for every 50 square feet of floor area
      3.   Park, playground, or recreation areas   5 spaces for each acre
developed for active use
      4.   Elementary or secondary schools   1 space per classroom/office, plus
1 space per 6 seats in the main auditorium or stadium
      5.   Library   1 space for every 50 square feet of floor area
      6.   Churches or religious temples (permanent main structures only)   1
space for every 4 seats in the auditorium
(Code 1991, § 12-241)
Sec 122-133 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions of these regulations and other City ordinances, the
following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the R-2, single-family
residential district:
   A.   Permanent garage, garage apartment, storage building, any other out
buildings, provided that:
      1.   Such structure shall observe the same front and side requirements as
the principal or main structure and a ten (10) foot setback from principle
structure and a ten (10) foot setback from rear property line. The structure
shall not exceed four hundred (400) square feet, or forty percent (40%) of the
principal structure square footage, whichever is larger. The structure shall
not exceed the height of the principal structure or a maximum of twenty-five
(25) feet. All accessory structures shall be harmonious with the surrounding
area.
      2.   Such structures shall not encroach upon any utility, street, alley,
or drainage easement.
   B.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
   C.   Private greenhouses, not operated for commercial purposes, and gardens,
or areas for the raising of agricultural crops, but not areas for the raising
of livestock; except for chickens. (see Section
122-103).
   D.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
   E.   Carports, provided that:
      1.   Such structures may not be used as areas of storage for any
materials other than a frequently used motor vehicle;
      2.   Such structures may not be enclosed at the time of construction or
any later date unless the carport is located within both the front and the side
yard setbacks;
      3.   Such structure shall have a side setback of five (5) feet, front
setback of five (5) feet, and a rear setback of ten (10) feet from the property
line. The structure shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the principal
structure's square footage. The structure shall not exceed the height of a
principal structure or maximum of twenty-five (25) feet. All carports shall be
permanently open at the minimum on two (2) sides from grade surface to one (1)
foot below roof eaves line. All carports, which extend into the required front
yard setback shall be permanently open on three (3) sides from grade surface to
one (1) foot below roof eaves line. All accessory structures must be harmonious
with surrounding area. Such structure shall not encroach upon any utility,
street, alley, or drainage easement;
      4.   The installation or construction of a carport on property on which
there has not been a commencement of construction of a new dwelling structure,
which carport would extend past or beyond the required front yard setback line,
is specifically prohibited except in those cases where other carports exist in
the same block on either side of the street; in which case, a carport would be
permitted to extend past the front yard setback line but only to the extensions
of the same block; and
      5.   Such structures may not obstruct traffic visibility.
   F.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses and structures in this district, including all portable
buildings and similar structures, not involving the conduct of business on the
premises, except legal home occupations and located on the same lot or a
contiguous lot under the same ownership, provided that:
      1.   Such structures shall not encroach upon the front or side yard
setback of the main or principal structure and shall have a five (5) foot
setback from rear property line. The structure shall not exceed one hundred
fifty (150) square feet. The structure shall not exceed twelve (12) feet in
total height. The structure shall be harmonious with surrounding area;
      2.   Such structures shall not encroach upon any utility, street, alley,
or drainage easement.
   G.   Solar collectors, whether as a part of a structure or incidental to a
group of nearby structures, when used for the purpose of providing energy for
heating or cooling of related structures.
   H.   Placement of storm shelters are allowed in the front yard within the
building line setbacks of adjoining streets but only when the placement of the
storm shelter creates a geographical hardship by being placed in the back or
side yards. If placement of the shelter is to be placed in the front yard it
must comply with the following requirements:
      1.   The edge of the shelter must be located within six (6) feet of the
principle structure;
      2.   Screening must be placed around the shelter so that it is not
viewable from the street;
      3.   Screening must be place no farther than two (2) feet from the
shelter;
      4.   Screening must be at least the height of the shelter;
      5.   Screening can be fencing, greenery, etc.; and
      6.   Any fencing used for screening shall not exceed one (1) foot above
the shelter.
(Code 1991, § 12-242; Ord. No. 99-23, §§ 1-3, 9-7-1999; Ord. No. 99-38, §§ 1-3,
1-4-2000; Ord. No. 01-06, § 1, 8-6-2001; Ord. No. 03-02, § 1, 5-5-2003; Ord.
No. 13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013; Ord. No. 13-15, § 1, 9-3-2013)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 18-06 Chickens in Residential Zoning on 7/2/2018
Sec 122-134 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit the following uses and structures on review:
   A.   Nursing and convalescent homes and hospitals, provided that:
      1.   They shall be located on sites of more than one (1) acre;
      2.   Front, side, and rear yard setbacks shall be comparable to similar
institutional uses permitted in this district;
      3.   Off-street parking shall be provided in the amount of one (1) space
per employee, plus one (1) space for every two (2) beds; and
      4.   Adequate provisions are made for loading and unloading of supplies
and materials.
   B.   Golf courses and country clubs, but not miniature golf courses or
commercial driving ranges operated separately from golf courses.
   C.   Funeral parlors, provided that:
      1.   Off-street parking shall be provided in the amount of one (1) space
for every four (4) seats in the main auditorium;
      2.   A vehicle waiting area, sufficient to hold at least ten (10)
vehicles, is provided;
      3.   Front, side, and rear yard setbacks shall be comparable to similar
institutional uses permitted in this district; and
      4.   Additions to the principal structure or landscaping of the grounds,
shall not create shadows on adjacent residential properties which would
interfere with the function of a solar collector on such property during
critical times of the day.
   D.   Medical clinics and facilities, provided that:
      1.   They shall be located on sites of less than one (1) acre;
      2.   Front, side, and rear yard setbacks shall be comparable to similar
institutional uses permitted in this district;
      3.   Off-street parking shall be provided in the amount of one (1) space
for each employee plus six (6) spaces; and
      4.   The maximum height of any new structure shall be one and one-half
(1½) stories.
   E.   Structures related to the operation of local, County, State, or federal
governmental operations, but not storage, construction, maintenance, or repair
yards or buildings, provided that:
      1.   Off-street parking shall be provided in the amount of six (6)
spaces, plus one (1) space for every employee;
      2.   Front, side, and rear yard setbacks shall be comparable to similar
institutional uses permitted in this district; and
      3.   The maximum height of any structure shall be one and one-half (1½)
stories.
   F.   Type I bed and breakfast establishments.
   G.   Family day care home, provided that:
      1.   It must be located in a single-family dwelling, which is the
permanent residence of the operator, or be located within a multipurpose
building, which is used for religious or educational purposes;
      2.   It must be operated in a manner that will not alter the residential
character of the neighborhood or adversely affect property values;
      3.   It must be located on a lot having not less than six thousand five
hundred (6,500) square feet of total area with a minimum outdoor play area of
seventy-five (75) square feet per child enclosed by a suitable security fence;
      4.   It must meet City and State Health Department requirements as to
safety, design, facilities, and equipment;
      5.   Adequate off-street parking area is provided to minimize the adverse
effects of increased traffic on the surrounding residential environment; and
      6.   All requirements of this chapter and the Code are complied with.
(Code 1991, § 12-243; Ord. No. 99-03, § 1, 1-4-1999; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-243,
11-6-2000)
Sec 122-135 Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   A.   Minimum lot area and width requirements.
      1.   Single-family dwelling, or other non-institutional uses:
         a.   Area: Six thousand (6,000) square feet.
         b.   Width: Fifty (50) feet at the building line.
      2.   Schools, churches, or other public or institutional buildings:
         a.   Area: Same as for single-family dwellings.
         b.   Width: Same as for single-family dwellings.
   B.   Minimum requirements for front, side, and rear yard setbacks.
      1.   Single-family dwelling or other non-institutional uses:
         a.   Front.
            (1)   Interior lot: Twenty-five (25) feet.
            (2)   Corner lot, home facing same direction as other homes on
block: Twenty-five (25) feet.
            (3)   Corner lot, home facing side street with driveway in front:
Twenty-five (25) feet.
            (4)   Corner lot, home facing side street with driveway through
rear or either side: Fifteen (15) feet.
         b.   Rear: Twenty (20) feet.
         c.   Side.
            (1)   Interior lot: Five (5) feet.
            (2)   Street side, corner lot, home facing same direction as other
homes on block: Fifteen (15) feet.
            (3)   Street side, corner lot, home facing side street: Twenty-five
(25) feet.
      2.   Schools, churches, or other public or institutional buildings:
         a.   Front: Thirty-five (35) feet.
         b.   Rear: Thirty-five (35) feet.
         c.   Side.
            (1)   Interior lot/side: Twenty (20) feet.
            (2)   Street side, corner lot: Twenty-five (25) feet.
   C.   Maximum height requirements.
      1.   Single-family dwelling: Two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five
(35) feet.
      2.   Schools, churches, or other public or institutional buildings: Two
and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five (35) feet.
(Code 1991, § 12-244)
Sec 122-136 Special Requirements
   A.   Hedges, shrubbery, or bushes of more than three (3) feet in height
shall not be planted, placed, or maintained on a corner so as to restrict the
vision of drivers, persons on bicycles, or pedestrians.
   B.   All signs, including temporary signs, shall be maintained in a neat and
presentable condition, and, in the event their use shall cease, they shall be
promptly removed and the surrounding area restored to a condition free from
refuse and trash.
   C.   The maximum height of any building, structure, or vegetation shall cast
no shadow on the solar collector of any neighboring property during critical
times of the day in any of the seasons. The Planning Commission may require
such additional and reasonable setback distance as may be possible or modify
the maximum permitted height in any case where a neighboring property owner can
provide proof that proposed new construction will have the herein-described
effect.
   D.   Sight proof fencing shall not be erected within the building line
setback of the adjoining street. However, an exception may be requested in
writing by the property owner and sent to the Planning Commission for review.
(Code 1991, § 12-245; Ord. No. 12-10, § I, 10-1-2012)
DIVISION 122-2-5 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, R-3 DISTRICT
   
122-161   Purpose
   
122-162   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-163   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-164   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-165   Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   
122-166   Special Requirements
Sec 122-161 Purpose
This residential district is intended to provide for medium population density
and to help balance, preserve, or stabilize existing or developing
neighborhoods whose basic structure involves a mixture of single-family and
two-family residential units. Certain uses which are compatible with more
intensive residential uses are also permitted and greater flexibility is
encouraged in prompting rehabilitation and reuse of existing structures,
utilities and facilities.
(Code 1991, § 12-250)
Sec 122-162 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted principal uses and structures   Minimum required off- street
parking
      1.   Any use permitted in the R-2, single-family residential
district   Same as in R-2 district
      2.   Two-family dwelling   2 spaces per dwelling unit
      3.   Single-family dwelling and garage apartment   2 spaces per dwelling
unit
      4.   Public buildings and utilities, but not storage, construction,
maintenance, or repair yards or construction, maintenance, or repair yards or
buildings   6 spaces, plus 1 space for every employee
(Code 1991, § 12-251)
Sec 122-163 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions of these regulations and other City ordinances, the
following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the R-3, two-family
residential district:
   A.   Accessory uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses of structures in the R-2, single-family residential
district, or R-3, two-family residential district, not involving the conduct of
business on the premises, except legal home occupations, and located on the
same lot, or a contiguous lot under the same ownership.
   B.   Solar collectors, whether as part of a structure or incidental to a
group of related structures, when used for the purpose of providing energy for
heating, or cooling of related principal structures.
   C.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
   D.   Chickens. See Section
122-103.
(Code 1991, § 12-252; Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 18-06 on 7/2/2018
Sec 122-164 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit the following uses and structures on review:
   A.   Railroad and public utility buildings, but not open equipment storage
or maintenance yards or general administrative and sales offices, provided
that:
      1.   Any building, structure, or substation shall meet the front and rear
yard setback requirements for single-family dwellings and shall provide side
yard setbacks of not less than twenty-five (25) feet; and
      2.   Two (2) parking spaces per substation or per one (1) employee on the
site, whichever is the greater, shall be provided.
   B.   Family day care home is permitted on review subject to the requirements
in Section 122-134.
   C.   Home beauty shop located in a residential dwelling, provided that:
      1.   Such shop is operated within the main dwelling only by the residents
thereof and does not exceed one (1) operator; and
      2.   Only one (1) sign shall be permitted; the sign shall be non-
illuminated, attached to the main building, and shall not exceed two (2) square
feet in area.
   D.   Lodges, fraternities, and sororities, except those whose chief activity
is a service customarily carried on as a business or commercial operation,
provided that:
      1.   The setback requirements for institutional buildings, provided for
in this district shall be met; and
      2.   Off-street parking shall be provided in the amount of one (1) space
for each fifty (50) square feet of floor area in the main building.
   E.   Off-street parking lots associated with a principal use permitted in a
residential or commercial district.
   F.   Neighborhood commercial uses, such as neighborhood grocery stores, or
bakeries, provided that:
      1.   No outside storage is permitted;
      2.   Yard setback and height restrictions shall be in accordance with the
requirements for schools, churches, and other public or institutional
facilities permitted in this district;
      3.   Restrictions on accessory uses and structures permitted in this
district shall be adhered to;
      4.   Parking requirements shall be in accordance with the requirements
for similar uses in the C-3, general commercial district; and
      5.   The primary function of the use is to provide necessary goods and
services to the neighborhood only. Bars, taverns, clubs, and gasoline stations
or combinations of gasoline stations and grocery stores shall not be considered
as neighborhood commercial uses.
   G.   Types I and II bed and breakfast establishments.
   H.   Child day care center, provided that:
      1.   When play area abuts commercial property, a four (4) foot minimum
privacy fence is required;
      2.   It is operated in a manner that will not alter the residential
character of the neighborhood or adversely affect property values;
      3.   It is located on a lot having not less than six thousand five
hundred (6,500) square feet of total area with a minimum outdoor play area of
seventy-five (75) square feet per child enclosed by a suitable security fence;
      4.   It meets City-State Health Department requirements as to safety,
design, facilities, and equipment;
      5.   Adequate off-street parking area is provided to minimize the adverse
effects of increased traffic on the surrounding residential environment; and
      6.   All requirements of this chapter and the Code are complied with.
(Code 1991, § 12-253; Ord. No. 99-03, § 1, 1-4-1999; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-253,
11-6-2000)
Sec 122-165 Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   A.   Minimum lot area and width requirements.
      1.   Single-family dwelling or combined with garage apartment:
         a.   Area: Six thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet.
         b.   Width: Fifty (50) feet at the building line.
      2.   Single-family dwelling/garage apartment (separate):
         a.   Area: Six thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet.
         b.   Width: Fifty (50) feet at the building line.
      3.   Two-family dwelling:
         a.   Area: Eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
         b.   Width: Sixty (60) feet at the building line.
      4.   Schools, churches, or other public and institutional buildings:
         a.   Area: Same as single-family dwelling.
         b.   Width: Same as single-family dwelling.
   B.   Minimum requirements for front, side, and rear yard setbacks.
      1.   Single-family dwelling or combined with garage apartment: Same as
the R-2, single-family residential district requirements for single-family
dwellings except that a garage apartment shall not be located closer than ten
(10) feet to rear lot line.
      2.   Single-family dwelling/garage apartment (separate): Same as the R-2,
single-family residential district requirements for single-family dwellings
except that a garage apartment shall not be located closer than ten (10) feet
to the rear lot line.
      3.   Two-family dwelling: Same as the R-2, single-family residential
district requirements for single-family dwellings.
      4.   Schools, churches, or other public and institutional buildings:
         a.   Front: Thirty-five (35) feet.
         b.   Rear: Thirty-five (35) feet.
         c.   Side: Twenty-five (25) feet.
   C.   Maximum requirements for height.
      1.   Single-family dwelling or combined with garage apartment: Two and
one- half (2½) stories or thirty-five (35) feet.
      2.   Single-family dwelling/garage apartment (separate): Two and one-half
(2½) stories or thirty-five (35) feet.
      3.   Two-family dwelling: Two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five
(35) feet.
      4.   Schools, churches, or other public and institutional buildings: Two
and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five (35) feet.
(Code 1991, § 12-254)
Sec 122-166 Special Requirements
   A.   Hedges, shrubbery, or bushes of more than three (3) feet in height
shall not be placed, planted, or maintained on a corner so as to restrict the
vision of drivers, persons on bicycles, or pedestrians.
   B.   All signs, including temporary signs, shall be maintained in a neat and
presentable condition, and, in the event their use shall cease, they shall be
promptly removed and the surrounding area restored to a condition free from
refuse and trash.
   C.   A garage apartment shall not be located on the same lot with a two-
family dwelling.
   D.   Sight proof fencing shall not be erected within the building line
setback of the adjoining street. However, an exception may be requested in
writing by the property owner and sent to the Planning Commission for review.
(Code 1991, § 12-255; Ord. No. 12-10, § I, 10-1-2012)
DIVISION 122-2-6 MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL, R-4 DISTRICT
   
122-191   Purpose
   
122-192   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-193   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-194   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-195   Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   
122-196   Special Requirements
Sec 122-191 Purpose
This district is intended to provide for medium and high population density and
to help establish, stabilize, or protect neighborhoods whose basic structure
may involve a mixture of single-family residences, duplexes, and multifamily
residences. Certain recreational, religious, educational, and commercial uses
which support and are compatible with more intensive residential uses, are also
permitted.
(Code 1991, § 12-260)
Sec 122-192 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted principal uses and structures   Minimum required off-street
parking
      1.   Any use permitted in the R-3, two- family residential
district   Same as in R-3 district
      2.   Multifamily dwellings   2 spaces per dwelling unit
      3.   Roominghouse or boardinghouse, not to include hotels or motels   1
space for every 2 beds
      4.   Nursing and convalescent homes and hospitals   1 space per employee,
plus 1 space for every 2 beds
(Code 1991, § 12-261)
Sec 122-193 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions of these regulations and other City ordinances, the
following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the R-4, multifamily
residential district:
   A.   Accessory uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the
permitted principal uses or structures in the R-2, single-family residential,
or R-3, two-family residential districts, not involving the conduct of business
on the premises, except legal home occupations and located on the same lot or a
contiguous lot under the same ownership.
   B.   Solar collectors, whether as a part of a structure or incidental to a
group of related structures, when used for the purpose of providing energy for
health, or cooling of related structures.
   C.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
(Code 1991, § 12-262; Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013)
Sec 122-194 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   A.   Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit any uses and structures permitted on review in the R-2,
single-family residential and R-3, two-family residential districts.
   B.   Child day care center or family day care home is permitted on review
subject to the requirements in Section
122-164 of this Code.
Sec 122-195 Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   A.   Minimum lot area and width requirements.
      1.   Multifamily dwellings: Seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square
feet for first unit plus one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet for each
additional unit up to twelve (12); and seven hundred fifty (750) square feet
for each additional unit over twelve (12).
      2.   Single-family dwellings: Same as the R-2, single-family residential
district requirements for single-family dwellings.
      3.   Two-family dwellings: Same as the R-3, two-family residential
district requirements for two-family dwellings.
      4.   Schools, churches and other public and institutional buildings: Same
as the R-2, single-family residential district requirements for single-family
dwellings.
   B.   Minimum requirements for front, side, and rear yard setbacks.
      1.   Multifamily dwellings:
         a.   Front: Same as the R-2, single-family residential district.
         b.   Rear: Residential district requirements for single-family
dwellings.
         c.   Side.
            (1)   One-story dwelling: Five (5) feet.
            (2)   Dwellings more than one (1) story: Ten (10) feet.
      2.   Single-family dwellings: Same as the R-2, single-family residential
district requirements for single-family dwellings.
      3.   Two-family dwellings: Same as the R-3, two-family residential
district requirements for two-family dwellings.
      4.   Schools, churches, and other public and institutional buildings:
         a.   Front: Thirty-five (35) feet.
         b.   Rear: Thirty-five (35) feet.
         c.   Side.
            (1)   Interior lot/side: Twenty (20) feet.
            (2)   Street side, corner lot: Twenty-five (25) feet.
   C.   Maximum height requirements.
      1.   Multifamily dwellings: Two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five
(35) feet.
      2.   Single-family dwellings: Two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-
five (35) feet.
      3.   Two-family dwellings: Two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five
(35) feet.
      4.   Schools, churches, and other public and institutional buildings: two
and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five (35) feet.
(Code 1991, § 12-264)
Sec 122-196 Special Requirements
   A.   The maximum height of any building or structure shall cast no shadow on
the solar collector of any neighboring property, building, or structure during
critical times of the day, during any season.
   B.   Variances from the height limitation or the side yard setback
requirements of this district shall not be considered by the Board of
Adjustment of the City unless the applicant for such variance provides data
which establishes that the possible grant of such a variance will not adversely
affect an existing solar collector, or the future opportunity to reasonably
install a solar collector upon adjacent property.
   C.   Sight proof fencing shall not be erected within the building line
setback of the adjoining street. However, an exception may be requested in
writing by the property owner and sent to the Planning Commission for review.
(Code 1991, § 12-265; Ord. No. 12-10, § I, 10-1-2012)
DIVISION 122-2-7 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL, R-5 DISTRICT
   
122-221   Purpose
   
122-222   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-223   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-224   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-225   Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   
122-226   Special Requirements
Cross reference- Manufactured homes and trailers, Ch.
62.
Sec 122-221 Purpose
This district is intended to provide for the appropriate, safe, sanitary, and
attractive location of mobile homes on subdivided lots in mobile home
subdivisions, or un-subdivided lots in mobile home parks.
(Code 1991, § 12-270)
Sec 122-222 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted principal uses and structures   Minimum required off-street
parking
      1.   Mobile homes on individual lots (either for sale or for rent)   2
spaces per dwelling
      2.   Parks and recreational facilities   4 spaces for each acre developed
for active use
      3.   Churches or religious temples   1 space for every 4 seats in the
main auditorium
      4.   Neighborhood meeting or recreation buildings   1 space for every 50
square feet of floor area
      5.   Elementary school   1 space per classroom/office, plus 1 space per 6
seats in the main auditorium
(Code 1991, § 12-271)
Sec 122-223 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions these regulations and other City codes and
ordinances, the following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the R-
5, mobile home residential district:
   A.   Private garages, provided that:
      1.   Such structures shall not encroach upon the front, side, or rear
yard setback requirements of the principal structures, or uses in this
district; and
      2.   Such structures shall not encroach upon any utility, street, alley,
or drainage easement.
   B.   Solar collectors, as a part of a structure, when used for the purpose
of providing energy for heating or cooling of related principal structures.
   C.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses and structures in this district, provided that:
      1.   Such structures and uses shall not involve the conduct of business
on the premises except home occupations, as defined in this chapter;
      2.   Such structures and uses shall not encroach upon any utility,
street, alley, or drainage easement; and
      3.   Such structures and uses shall not encroach upon the front, side, or
rear yard setback requirements of the principal structures, or uses in this
district.
   D.   Private gardens.
   E.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
(Code 1991, § 12-272; Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013)
Sec 122-224 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit the following uses and structures on review:
   A.   Private swimming pools or tennis courts, provided that:
      1.   Such uses or structures shall not encroach upon any utility, street,
alley, or drainage easements; and
      2.   Such uses and structures shall be placed only in a defined rear yard
and shall not encroach upon any side yard setback requirement of the principal
structures or uses in this district;
   B.   Localized commercial uses, such as grocery stores, laundromats, or
convenience stores, designed to primarily serve the residents of the mobile
home parks, or subdivision, provided that:
      1.   No outside storage is permitted;
      2.   Yard setback and height restrictions shall be the same as the
requirements for mobile homes;
      3.   Restrictions on accessory uses and structures permitted in this
district shall be adhered to; and
      4.   Parking requirements shall be in accordance with the requirements
for similar uses in the C-1, central business or C-3, general commercial zoning
districts.
(Code 1991, § 12-273)
Sec 122-225 Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   A.   Minimum lot area and width requirements.
      1.   Mobile home parks:
         a.   Area: Overall density may not exceed ten (10) mobile homes per
gross acre.
         b.   Width: Thirty (30) feet.
      2.   Mobile home subdivisions:
         a.   Area: Four thousand (4,000) square feet.
         b.   Width: Forty (40) feet at the building line.
   B.   Minimum requirements for front, side, and rear yard setbacks.
      1.   Mobile home parks:
         a.   Front: Ten (10) feet.
         b.   Side: Five (5) feet.
         c.   Rear: Five (5) feet.
      2.   Mobile home subdivisions:
         a.   Front: Twenty-five (25) feet.
         b.   Side: Five (5) feet.
         c.   Rear: Twenty (20) feet.
   C.   Maximum height requirements.
      1.   Mobile home parks: Twenty (20) feet.
      2.   Mobile home subdivisions: Twenty (20) feet.
(Code 1991, § 12-274)
Sec 122-226 Special Requirements
   A.   All mobile home parks and subdivisions shall be developed in accordance
with all applicable provisions of this Code, in particular Chapters
42,
82, and
94.
   B.   The minimum area for development of a mobile home park shall be five
(5) acres.
   C.   The minimum area for development of a mobile home subdivision shall be
ten (10) acres.
   D.   No landscaping required under any provision of this chapter or this
Code shall be planted, placed, or maintained on any corner so as to restrict
the clear vision of drivers, persons on bicycles, or pedestrians.
   E.   Sight proof fencing shall not be erected within the building line
setback of the adjoining street. However, an exception may be requested in
writing by the property owner and sent to the Planning Commission for review.
(Code 1991, § 12-275; Ord. No. 12-10, § I, 10-1-2012)
DIVISION 122-2-8 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT, R-6 DISTRICT
   
122-251   Purpose
   
122-252   Procedures
   
122-253   Special Requirements
Cross reference- Planning, Ch.
82.
Sec 122-251 Purpose
This special district is intended to provide for planned, unified developments
incorporating a single type or a variety of residential and related uses. Such
developments may consist of individual lots or common building sites, but it is
not the purpose of this district to allow different, incompatible uses or a
greater dwelling unit density than would otherwise be allowed in the applicable
district. It is intended that greater flexibility be allowed and encouraged in
the design of buildings, yards, courts, and traffic ways than would otherwise
be possible through strict application of other district regulations. In
addition, use of this district should encourage a maximum choice of available
residential units, a pattern of development suited to existing natural features
and open spaces, a creative and more efficient approach to the use of land
resulting from smaller street and utility networks, and a natural environment
with a distinct character harmoniously related to surrounding development
patterns.
(Code 1991, § 12-280)
Sec 122-252 Procedures
The City Council is hereby authorized to rezone land for use as a planned
residential development if the following procedures and related standards are
met:
   A.   Application for rezoning of land to the R-6, planned residential
development district, shall be submitted in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Article 1 of this chapter;
   B.   Prior to submitting its recommendation to the City Council, the
Planning Commission shall review the rezoning proposal using the following
criteria:
      1.   Consistency with the City's comprehensive plan;
      2.   Compatibility of the proposal with existing and future development
in adjacent areas;
      3.   Economic feasibility, especially with respect to the City's housing
market; and
      4.   Compliance with the provisions and standards included in Section
122-253;
   C.   Any substantial deviation from the approved development plan shall
constitute a violation of the rezoning approval and must be resubmitted for
review following the same procedures required for the original plan; and
   D.   Construction of the development which shall be started within two (2)
years of the date of plan approval by the City Council. Failure to begin within
the two (2) years shall void the development plan and shall cause the land to
revert to the zoning district which existed immediately preceding the last
rezoning.
(Code 1991, § 12-281)
Sec 122-253 Special Requirements
Use of the R-6, planned residential development district, may be authorized
when all of the following provisions are complied with:
   A.   Minimum site size. The minimum size of the site upon which a planned
residential development may be located shall be shot less than five (5) acres.
   B.   Design characteristics. The proposed development shall be planned and
designed as a unified residential area, compatible with existing and projected
uses in the surrounding areas and considerate of existing vegetation, soils,
topography, and drainage ways. The development shall encourage efficiency in
the street and utility networks and extensive and creative use of open spaces
through flexible design standards. All uses must be permitted uses (i.e.,
principal uses, accessory uses, or uses permitted on review) in residential
zoning districts. Overall dwelling unit density of the proposed development
shall not exceed the density which would be attained if the same were to be
developed using a minimum lot area of six thousand five hundred (6,500) square
feet.
   C.   Development plan. The applicant shall submit a development plan in
support of his rezoning application for the use of the R-6, planned residential
development district, which plan shall include:
      1.   Total acreage;
      2.   Structure locations;
      3.   Sizes;
      4.   Elevations and floor plans;
      5.   Driveway and parking areas and dimensions;
      6.   Lot and yard areas and dimensions;
      7.   A drainage plan;
      8.   Open space and recreation areas; and
      9.   Overall dwelling unit density.
   Water and sewer plans shall also be provided, indicating the overall
requirements of the development for appropriate linkage to the City water and
sewer systems. The development plan may provide for staged development of the
project and shall so indicate on the plan. A study of the City's housing market
shall also be provided, as proof of the economic feasibility of the proposal.
   D.   Lot requirements. There shall be no minimum lot size, width, height, or
setback requirements within the R-6, planned residential development district.
   E.   Off-street parking. Off-street parking requirements shall be the same
as for permitted uses in residential districts, except that they may be met by
the use of common parking facilities.
   F.   Homes association. If other satisfactory arrangements for improving,
operating, and maintaining streets, common parking, and open space areas,
drives, service areas, and utilities have not been made with the City, a
homeowners association shall be provided for and created in accordance with
accepted procedures and financial requirements.
   G.   Subdivision regulations. The requirements of any existing and future
subdivisions regulations adopted by the City shall be met by the applicant for
a planned residential development subsequent to the approval of the applicant's
rezoning request. This shall include the preparation and approval of
preliminary and final plats in developments meeting the definition of a
subdivision according to the subdivision regulations.
   H.   Signs. Signs shall be permitted in the development only for the purpose
of identifying the development and advertising the sale of lots, or residential
units. Such signs, if they are to be permanent, shall be designed as an
integral part of the project and shall be harmonious with the surrounding
landscaping and design features.
   I.   Sight proof fencing shall not be erected within the building line
setback of the adjoining street. However, an exception may be requested in
writing by the property owner and sent to the Planning Commission for review.
(Code 1991, § 12-282; Ord. No. 12-10, § I, 10-1-2012)
DIVISION 122-2-9 CENTRAL BUSINESS, C-L DISTRICT
   
122-281   Purpose
   
122-282   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-283   Permitted Accessory Uses, And Structures
   
122-284   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-285   Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   
122-286   Special Requirements
   
122-287   Building Facade
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18.
Sec 122-281 Purpose
This district is intended to establish and preserve an attractive, safe, and
convenient central business district in a manner that will accommodate a wide
range of retail uses and businesses, financial offices and uses, governmental
and professional offices and uses, and places of entertainment in a setting
conducive to, and safe for, a high volume of pedestrian traffic. Compatible
residential uses are allowed in order to promote increased daily activity
levels in the district and reuse and development of existing structures.
(Code 1991, § 12-290)
Sec 122-282 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted principal uses and structures   Minimum required off-street
parking
      1.   General retail sales establishment (enclosed)   1 space for each
employee, plus 1 space for each 200 square feet of store floor area
      2.   Restaurant, cafe, private club or tavern (but not a drive-in
restaurant)   1 space for every 1,000 square feet of floor space
      3.   Hotels and motels   1 space per unit
      4.   Dwelling unit above a store or shop   1 space per unit
      5.   Clubs and lodges   1 space per unit
      6.   Traditional grocery stores but not including quickstop-type grocery
stores   1 space for every 150 square feet of floor area;
      7.   Personal services   1 space for each employee
      8.   Financial institutions and offices   1 space for every 150 square
feet of floor area
      9.   Business and professional offices and studios   1 space for every
300 square feet of floor area
      10.   Newspaper offices   1 space for each employee
      11.   Medical and dental clinics and offices   1 space for each employee
plus 3 spaces
      12.   Public buildings but not including utility buildings, storage, or
maintenance yards or buildings   1 space for each employee plus 6 spaces
      13.   Public parking garages   Not applicable
      14.   Wholesale display and salesrooms (enclosed)   2 spaces for each
employee
      15.   Theater and other places of amusement (enclosed)   1 space for each
employee, plus 1 space for each 200 square feet of floor area
      16.   Cultural centers, museums, and art galleries   1 space for every
1,800 square feet of floor area
      17.   Churches or religious temples (permanent main structures only)   1
space for every 4 seats in the auditorium
      18.   Child day care center, subject to subsections 122-164(H)1., 2., 3.,
4., 5., 6.   1 space for every 150 square feet of floor area
      19.   The Planning Commission may review available public parking spaces
at the request of any concerned party in the determination of new parking
spaces required to meet the provisions of this district. The objective of
allowing such review is to encourage flexibility in the effective provision of
parking facilities for the central business district without adversely
affecting the area available for commercial expansion, growth and
redevelopment.
(Code 1991, § 12-291; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-291, 11-6-2000)
Sec 122-283 Permitted Accessory Uses, And Structures
Subject to the provisions of these regulations and other City ordinances, the
following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the C-1, central
business district:
   A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses and structures in this district, (excluding storage warehouses).
   B.   Solar collectors, whether as part of a structure or incidental to a
group of nearby structures, when used for the purpose of providing energy for
heating or cooling of related principal structures.
   C.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
(Code 1991, § 12-292; Ord. No. 03-03A, § 1, 5-5-2003; Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 1-7-
2013)
Sec 122-284 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit the following uses and structures on review:
   A.   Principal uses and structures permitted in the R-2, single-family
residential district, provided that:
      1.   Each request for a use permitted on review shall be for one (1)
principal structure, building, or use only;
      2.   Minimum requirements for off-street parking, yard setbacks, lot area
and width, and maximum height restrictions for the R-2, single-family
residential district, are complied with; and
      3.   The proposed use shall not be permitted if it will cause the
destruction of an identified or designated historic site, structure, or element
or will substantially reduce, through incompatible modification, alteration, or
addition, the historic significance of the site, structure, or element.
   B.   Family day care homes are permitted on review subject to the
requirements in Section
122-134.
   C.   Type II bed and breakfast establishments.
(Code 1991, § 12-293; Ord. No. 99-03, § 1, 1-4-1999; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-293,
11-6-2000)
Sec 122-285 Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   A.   Minimum lot area and width requirements for commercial uses: no minimum
lot area and width.
   B.   Minimum requirements for front, side, and rear yard setbacks for
commercial uses: none, except:
      1.   Where apartments are above a store or shop, in which case a rear
yard setback of twenty (20) feet shall be provided; and
      2.   Where adjacent to a residential district, a side yard setback of ten
(10) feet a rear yard setback of twenty (20) feet shall be provided.
   C.   Maximum height requirements for commercial uses: four stories or fifty
(50) feet.
(Code 1991, § 12-294)
Sec 122-286 Special Requirements
   A.   Advertising signs related to the principal structure shall be kept in a
safe and secure fashion.
   B.   Lighted signs shall be arranged so that there will be no annoying glare
directed or reflected toward residential buildings in any residential district.
   C.   No use shall be permitted in the C-l, central business district, when
operation of such use would adversely affect the safe flow of pedestrian
traffic, cause the destruction of designated historic structures, or impact
unfavorably upon the economic structure of the entire central business
district.
   D.   Off-street parking facilities or lots shall be designed, located, and
constructed in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   The lot shall be located within two hundred (200) feet, exclusive of
street and alley widths, of the principal use and shall have direct access to a
street or alley;
      2.   Land upon which the lot is located shall be owned or controlled by
the same entity which owns or controls the land upon which the principal use is
located, except that the City may own and use land solely for off-street
parking purposes;
      3.   The intensity of light and the arrangement of reflecting devices
shall be such as not to interfere with the surrounding, or adjacent residential
uses; and
      4.   All parking surfaces required under the provisions of this district
shall be paved with a sealed-surface pavement and maintained in a manner such
that no dust will result from continued use.
   E.   Sight proof fencing shall not be erected on the street side of the
property to extend past the building line setback of the adjoining residential
property.
   F.   All development, new construction, additions, or remodels and/or
repairs in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the total linear feet of the
exterior walls of any building, including, but not limited to, the following
façades: screening, landscaping, lighting or other improvements to the exterior
building and/or lot shall be presented to the Planning Commission for review
and final approval prior to commencing any work thereon.
(Code 1991, § 12-295; Ord. No. 12-07, § I, 9-4-2012)
Sec 122-287 Building Facade
   A.   All commercial zoned property shall be divided into two tiers.
      1.   Tier 1.
         a.   All new construction located on commercially zoned property that
adjoin any of the streets designated in paragraph A.1.f. shall contain, or have
a façade with one hundred percent (100%) wall area, excluding doors and
windows, being brick, rock, decorative concrete blocks, stucco, or like
material, excluding other materials such as exposed exterior metal walls,
untreated concrete block or unfinished, untreated concrete panels.
         b.   All additions to existing buildings located on commercially zoned
property that adjoin any of the streets designated in paragraph A.1.f., will
require the addition, as well as the entire exterior of the existing building
to have a façade with one hundred percent (100%) wall area, excluding doors and
windows, being brick, rock, decorative concrete blocks, stucco, or like
material, excluding other materials such as exposed exterior metal walls,
untreated concrete block or unfinished, untreated concrete panels. Exception:
            (1)   Any addition that does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the
linear footage of the existing side wall of the structure, with no more than
one (1) wall at a time viewable in any direction from any of the streets
designated in paragraph A.1.f., will be allowed to be built of the same or like
material as the existing structure. Any addition exceeding ten percent (10%)
may be taken before the City of Purcell Planning Commission, and their
recommendation will be forwarded to the City of Purcell City Council for final
approval or denial.
         c.   All remodels and/or repairs in excess of fifty percent (50%) of
the total linear feet of the exterior walls of any building located on
commercially zoned property that adjoin any of the streets designated in
paragraph A.1.f. will require the entire exterior of the building to have a
façade with one hundred percent (100%) wall area, excluding doors and windows,
being brick, rock, decorative concrete blocks, stucco, or like material,
excluding other materials such as exposed exterior metal walls, untreated
concrete block or unfinished, untreated concrete panels. The City of Purcell
shall determine the total percentage of the remodel and/or repair to the
building
         d.   Corporate franchisees may submit an alternative façade design to
the City of Purcell Planning Commission, with a letter from the corporate
office stating these are the franchise standards.
         e.   The Planning Commission recommendations will be forwarded to the
City of Purcell City Council for final approval or denial.
         f.   Streets.
            Green Ave. from exit 95 south to the stop light at Weedn Blvd./S.H.
77;
            S.H. 74 S. from the stop light at Weedn Blvd /S.H. 77 southwest to
180th street;
            Weedn Blvd/S.H. 77 from the stop light at Green Ave. south three
thousand (3,000) feet;
            Chandler Rd. from the stop light at Green Ave. west to the stop
sign at Lake Rd.;
            S. 9th from Chandler Rd. south to S.H. 74 S.;
            Wyatt Rd./S.H. 39 from Green Ave. west to Horse Ave.; Main St. from
6th St. east to the 400 Block of E. Main;
            Washington St. from 6th St. east to the 200 Block of E. Washington
St.;
            4th St. from Main St. north to Adams St.; 3rd St. from Apache St.
north to Adams St.; 2nd St. from Apache St. north to Adams St.;
            Canadian St. from Apache St. north to Adams St.; Lester Ln. from
Main St. south to Comanche; Lincoln St. from Green Ave east to 4th St.;
            Grant St. from 4th St. west to the intersection of 220 St. and S.H.
74;
            N. 9th St. from Hallmark Blvd. north to Feland Dr.
      2.   Tier 2.
         a.   All new construction located on commercially zoned property that
does not adjoin any of the Tier 1 streets designated in paragraph A.1.f. shall
contain, or have a façade with one hundred percent (100%) wall area, excluding
doors and windows, being brick, rock, decorative concrete blocks, stucco, or
like material, excluding other materials such as exposed exterior metal walls,
untreated concrete block or unfinished, untreated concrete panels.
         b.   All additions to existing buildings located on commercially zoned
property that does not adjoin any of the Tier 1 streets designated in paragraph
A.1.f. will require the addition, as well as the entire exterior of the
existing building to have a façade with one hundred percent (100%) wall area,
excluding doors and windows, being brick, rock, decorative concrete blocks,
stucco, or like material, excluding other materials such as exposed exterior
metal walls, untreated concrete block or unfinished, untreated concrete panels.
         c.   All remodels and/or repairs in excess of fifty percent (50%) of
the total linear feet of the exterior walls of any building located on
commercially zoned property that does not adjoin any of the Tier 1 streets
designated in paragraph A.1.f. will require the entire exterior of the building
to have a façade with one hundred percent (100%) wall area, excluding doors and
windows, being brick, rock, decorative concrete blocks, stucco, or like
material, excluding other materials such as exposed exterior metal walls,
untreated concrete block or unfinished, untreated concrete panels.
         The City of Purcell shall determine the total percentage of the
remodel and/or repair to the building.
         d.   With respect to the Tier 2 properties, the Planning Commission
and City Council may approve a façade material and/or landscaping design
compatible with the surrounding buildings in the area. Requests for exceptions
or variations to the wall content or façade requirements of this section and/or
landscaping plan may be presented to and considered by the Planning Commission,
which will then make recommendations to the City Council. The City Council,
upon the advice from the Planning Commission, shall consider, approve or deny
the request. Factors to be considered and evaluated shall not be limited to,
but shall include, the specific provisions of the request, the effect of the
exception or variation on the overall and local community appearance, the
potential impact on the community quality of life, the applicability of the
exceptions or variation to the specific structure, the economic impact on the
community as a whole, adjacent zoning districts, present adjoining uses and
potential future uses of surrounding property.
   B.   All industrial zoned property.
      1.   All new construction in areas zoned industrial that adjoin any of
the streets designated in paragraph B.7 shall contain, or have a façade with
one hundred percent (100%) wall area, excluding doors and windows, being brick,
rock, decorative concrete blocks, stucco, or like material, excluding other
materials such as exposed exterior metal walls, untreated concrete block or
unfinished, untreated concrete panels.
      2.   All additions to existing buildings located in Industrial zoned
property that adjoin any of the streets designated in paragraph B.7, will
require the addition, as well as the entire exterior of the existing building
to have a façade with one hundred percent (100%) wall area, excluding doors and
windows, being brick, rock, decorative concrete blocks, stucco, or like
material, excluding other materials such as exposed exterior metal walls,
untreated concrete block or unfinished, untreated concrete panels
   Exception:
         a.   Any addition that does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the linear
footage of the existing side wall of the structure, with no more than one (1)
wall at a time viewable in any direction from any of the following streets,
will be allowed to be built of the same or like material as the existing
structure. Any addition exceeding ten percent (10%) may be taken before the
Planning Commission, and their recommendation will be forwarded to the City of
Purcell City Council for final approval or denial.
      3.   All remodels and/or repairs in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the
total linear feet of the exterior walls of any building located on industrial
zoned property that adjoin any of the following streets will require the entire
exterior of the building to have a façade with one hundred percent (100%) wall
area, excluding doors and windows, being brick, rock, decorative concrete
blocks, stucco, or like material, excluding other materials such as exposed
exterior metal walls, untreated concrete block or unfinished, untreated
concrete panels.
      4.   The City of Purcell shall determine the total percentage of the
remodel and/or repair to the building.
      5.   Only corporate franchisees may submit an alternative façade design
to the City of Purcell Planning Commission, with a letter from the corporate
office stating these are the franchise standards.
      6.   The Planning Commission recommendations will be forwarded to the
City of Purcell City Council for final approval or denial.
      7.   Streets.
         From exit 95 south on Green Ave. and State Highway 74 S. to exit 91.
      8.   In all other areas zoned industrial, the Planning Commission and
City Council may approve a façade material and/or landscaping design compatible
with the surrounding buildings in the area. Requests for exceptions or
variations to the wall content or façade requirements of this section and/or
landscaping plan may be presented to and considered by the Planning Commission,
which will then make recommendations to the City Council. The City Council,
upon the advice from the Planning Commission, shall consider, approve or deny
the request. Factors to be considered and evaluated shall not be limited to,
but shall include, the specific provisions of the request, the effect of the
exception or variation on the overall and local community appearance, the
potential impact on the community quality of life, the applicability of the
exceptions or variation to the specific structure, the economic impact on the
community as a whole, adjacent zoning districts, present adjoining uses and
potential future uses of surrounding property.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 10-1-2007; Ord. No. 12-01, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 13-10, §
II, 2-4-2013)
DIVISION 122-2-10 OFFICE COMMERCIAL, C-2 DISTRICT
   
122-311   Purpose
   
122-312   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-313   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-314   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-315   Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   
122-316   Special Requirements
   
122-317   Building Facade
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18.
Sec 122-311 Purpose
This district is intended to provide a special area for institutional and
commercial office activities, employment and services, or small groupings
thereof, which can be uniquely planned and developed so as not to materially
detract from adjacent residential uses. Such offices and uses shall be
compatible with surrounding properties in order to enable such uses to serve as
effective transitional areas between general commercial and residential areas,
where necessary.
(Code 1991, § 12-300)
Sec 122-312 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted principal uses and structures   Minimum required off-street
parking
      1.   Any use permitted in the R-2, single-family   Same as the R-2,
single-family residential district
      2.   Business, professional, or financial offices or studios, but not
including a commercial health spa or gymnasium facility   1 space per employee,
plus 4 spaces
      3.   Social, fraternal, and civic offices   1 space per employee, plus 4
spaces
      4.   Public offices      1 space for each employee, plus 6 spaces
      5.   Restaurant, store, or small groups of stores designated to serve
persons conducting business in this district   1 space for every 150 square
feet of floor space
      6.   Educational institutions and studios   1 space for every 200 square
feet of floor space
      7.   Museums and cultural centers   1 space for every 800 square feet of
floor area
      8.   Open space and recreational uses designed to serve persons
conducting business in this district   (Not applicable)
      9.   Medical and dental clinics and offices   1 space for each employee,
plus 5 spaces
      10.   Child day care center, subject to subsections 122-164(H)1., 2., 3.,
4., 5., 6.   1 space for every 150 square feet of floor area
(Code 1991, § 12-301; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-301, 11-6-2000)
Sec 122-313 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions of these regulations and other City ordinances, the
following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the C-2, office
commercial district:
   A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses and structures in this district.
   B.   Solar collectors, whether as part of a structure or incidental to a
group of nearby structures, when used for the purpose of providing energy for
heating or cooling of related principal structures.
   C.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
(Code 1991, § 12-302; Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013)
Sec 122-314 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit the following uses and structures on review:
   A.   Principal uses and structures permitted in the R-3, two-family
residential district, provided that:
      1.   Each request for a use permitted on review shall be for one (1)
principal structure, building, or use only; and
      2.   Minimum requirements for off-street parking, yard setbacks, lot area
and width, and maximum height restrictions for the R-3, two-family residential
district are complied with; and
   B.   Family day care home is permitted on review subject to the requirements
in Section
122-134.
   C.   Type II bed and breakfast establishments.
(Code 1991, § 12-303; Ord. No. 99-03, § 1, 1-41999; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-303,
11-6-2000)
Sec 122-315 Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   A.   The following are the minimum lot area and width requirements for:
      1.   Residential uses: Same as for the applicable residential district;
      2.   Commercial uses:
         a.   Area: No minimum lot area;
         b.   Width: Fifty (50) feet at the building line.
   B.   The following are the minimum requirements for front, side, and rear
yard setbacks for:
      1.   Residential uses: same as for the applicable residential district;
      2.   Commercial uses:
         a.   Front yard setback of ten (10) feet; where adjacent to a
residential district, twenty-five (25) feet;
         b.   Side yard setback of ten (10) feet for an interior lot; fifteen
(15) feet for a corner lot street side; ten (10) feet for corner lot interior
side; where adjacent to a residential district, twenty (20) feet minimum; if
building exceeds sixteen (16) feet in height, the setback shall be increased
one (1) foot for each one (1) foot in building height above sixteen (16) feet,
but not to exceed twenty-five (25) feet;
         c.   Rear yard setback of twenty (20) feet.
   C.   The following are the maximum height requirements for:
      1.   Residential uses: Two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five (35)
feet.
      2.   Commercial uses: Two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five (35)
feet.
(Code 1991, § 12-304; Ord. No. 00-06, § 1(12-304), 6-5-2000)
Sec 122-316 Special Requirements
   A.   Signs. Signs permitted in this district shall:
      1.   Relate directly to the identification of the principal structure or
use or its proposed sale or rental only;
      2.   Not be located in, overhang, or project into a residential yard;
      3.   Not project above the height of the building;
      4.   Be designed to complement the overall design and development of the
structure or use;
      5.   Be arranged so that there will be no annoying glare directed or
reflected toward residential buildings in a residential district; and
      6.   Be maintained in a neat and presentable condition. In the event
their use shall cease, they shall be promptly removed.
   B.   Site development plan. Applicants requesting use of this zoning
district shall submit a site development plan for the proposed structure or use
showing:
      1.   The use of existing natural features;
      2.   Proposed landscaping and its impact upon noise and dust created by
the proposed use;
      3.   Traffic ingress and egress;
      4.   Building orientation; and
      5.   Off-street parking facilities.
   C.   Parking facilities. All parking facilities required under the
provisions of this district shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the requirements for such facilities in Section
122-286.
   D.   Privacy fence. C-2, office commercial district, when adjacent to
residential zoning, shall construct and effectively maintain a privacy fence on
adjoining property line.
   E.   Landscaping. Corner lot side street side shall have suitable
landscaping to enhance the site.
   F.   Sight proof fencing. Sight proof fencing shall not be erected on the
street side of the property to extend past the building line setback of the
adjoining residential property.
   G.   All development, new construction, additions, or remodels and/or
repairs in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the total linear feet of the
exterior walls of any building, including, but not limited to, the following
façades: screening, landscaping, lighting or other improvements to the exterior
building and/or lot shall be presented to the Planning Commission for review
and final approval prior to commencing any work thereon.
(Code 1991, § 12-305; Ord. No. 00-06, § 1(12-305), 6-5-2000; Ord. No. 12-07, §
I, 9-4-2012)
Sec 122-317 Building Facade
See Section
122-287.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 10-1-2007; Ord. No. 12-01, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 13-10, §
II, 2-4-2013)
DIVISION 122-2-11 GENERAL COMMERCIAL, C-3 DISTRICT
   
122-341   Purpose
   
122-342   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-343   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-344   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-345   Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   
122-346   Special Requirements
   
122-347   Building Facade
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18.
Sec 122-341 Purpose
This district is intended to provide for the normal range of commercial
services within the community in such a manner that the district will
accommodate both quickstop and longer visit shopping, as well as provide for
additional retail, cultural, and entertainment trade. Additionally, district
regulations are intended to minimize traffic congestion and noise, provide
adequate and controlled parking and expansion area, allow safe overall and
local community appearance, pedestrian movement, minimize adverse impacts on
residential areas, encourage improved commercial site design and layout,
promote the reuse and development of existing commercial structures, and
encourage unproved visual quality in commercial development.
(Code 1991, § 12-310)
Sec 122-342 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted principal uses and structures   Minimum required off-street
parking
      1.   Any use permitted in the C-1, central business district, and C-2,
office commercial district    Same as in C-1 and C-2 districts
      2.   Automotive display, sales, service and repair but excluding body
repair and painting    1 space for every 300 square feet of sales service or
office floor area
      3.   Farm implement display, sales, service and repair   1 space for each
employee, plus 1 space for each vehicle used by the industry
      4.   Boats, motors, travel trailers, and mobile home display, sales,
service and repair   1 space for each employee, plus 1 space for each vehicle
used by industry
      5.   Drive-in theater   Storage lanes outside of ticket booth to
accommodate ten (10) percent of theater capacity
      6.   Regular or traditional grocery stores, or markets (no gasoline sales
facilities)   1 space for every 150 square feet of floor area
      7.   Quick-stop type grocery stores (with or without gasoline sales
facilities)   1 space for every 200 square feet of floor area
      8.   Gasoline, service, or motor vehicle service station   1 space for
every 250 square feet of [floor area]
      9.   Drive-in restaurants   1 space for each employee, in addition to the
desired number of customer spaces
      10.   Hospital   1 space per employee, plus 1 space for every 2 beds
      11.   For all uses not covered in this section, the Planning Commission
shall make a determination of the parking demand to be created by the proposed
use and the amount of parking thus determined shall be the off-street parking
requirement for the permitted use.
(Code 1991, § 12-311)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 19-17 on 11/4/2019
Sec 122-343 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions of these regulations providing energy for heating or
cooling of and other City ordinances, the following accessory uses and
structures are permitted in the C-3, general commercial district:
   A.   Uses and structures, including storage warehouses, clearly incidental
and necessary to the permitted principal uses and structures in this district.
   B.   Solar collectors, whether as part of a structures or incidental to a
group of nearby structures when used for the purpose of providing energy for
heating or cooling of related principal structures.
   C.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
(Code 1991, § 12-312; Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013)
Sec 122-344 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit the following uses and structures on review:
   A.   Public and private utility or contractor equipment and material storage
and maintenance yards or buildings, provided that any stored material or
equipment shall be within a building or enclosed by a six (6) foot high fence
or suitable landscaping to screen the materials or equipment from the view of
adjacent public streets, parks, recreation areas, and residential properties.
   B.   Principal uses and structures permitted in the R-2, single-family
residential and R-3, two-family residential districts, provided that:
      1.   Each request for a use permitted on review shall be for one (1)
principal structure, building, or use only; and
      2.   Minimum requirements for off-street parking, yard setbacks, lot area
and width, and maximum height restrictions for the applicable residential
district are complied with.
   C.   Family day care home is permitted on review subject to the requirements
in Section
122-134.
   D.   Light manufacturing or assembly operations, even though otherwise
limited to I-1 district, meeting the following requirements:
      1.   Conducted entirely within an enclosed building, same to be a
building already in existence, but this shall not be construed to prevent
alterations to an existing building.
      2.   Not objectionable due to noise, dust, odor, smoke, vibration,
electrical disturbance, danger to life and property or otherwise injurious to
the health and safety of the neighborhood.
   E.   Telecommunication tower or antenna is permitted on review subject to
the requirements in Section
102-2.
   F.   Automobile body and fender repair and painting meeting the following
requirements:
      1.   Conducted entirely within an enclosed building.
      2.   No new or used parts stored outside of building.
      3.   All salvage materials removed from automobiles must be enclosed
within a privacy fence until picked up for disposal.
      4.   All vehicles must be operable, inspected and tagged or be enclosed
within a privacy fence.
      5.   All storage inside a privacy fence must be so screened so that it
cannot be seen by person standing at ground level any place on private or City
property (streets, alleys, parks, easements, etc.) adjacent to the lot on which
the storage is located.
      6.   Must comply with all OSHA, EPA, and fire regulations.
   G.   Type II bed and breakfast establishments.
   H.   Animal hospitals and veterinarians with indoor or outdoor facilities.
   I.   Body piercing and tattoo facilities.
      1.   Must be licensed by the State Department of Health;
      2.   Facility not to be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of a
church, school, or playground;
      3.   Provide copy of one hundred thousand dollar ($100,000.00) bond; and
      4.   Provide copy of State sales tax permit.
   J.   Flea markets, farmers markets and stores with outdoor sales of used
merchandise.
(Code 1991, § 12-313; Ord. No. 93-2125, § 1, 6-7-1992; Ord. No. 99-03, § 1, 1-
4-1999; Ord. No. 00-25, 12-313, 11-6-2000; Ord. No. 01-03, 3-5-2001; Ord. No.
06-03, § 1, 2-6-2006; Ord. No. 07-17, § 1, 11-5-2007; Ord. No. 13-15, § 2, 9-3-
2013; Ord. No. 14-07, § 1(iii), 7-7-2014)
Sec 122-345 Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   A.   The following are the minimum lot area and width requirements for
commercial uses: No minimum lot area and width.
   B.   The following are the minimum requirements for front, side, and rear
yard setbacks for commercial uses, none except:
      1.   Where apartments are above a store or shop, a rear yard setback of
twenty (20) feet shall be provided; and
      2.   Where adjacent to a residential district a front yard setback of
twenty-five (25) feet; a rear yard setback of twenty (20) feet and side yard
setback of ten (10) feet or fifteen (15) feet of side yard abutting a street,
minimum; if a building exceed sixteen (16) feet in height, the setback shall be
increased one (1) foot for each one (1) foot in building height above sixteen
(16) feet, but not to exceed twenty-five (25) feet.
   C.   The following are the maximum height requirements for commercial uses:
four (4) stories or fifty (50) feet.
(Code 1991, § 12-314; Ord. No. 00-06, § 1(12-314), 6-5-2000)
Sec 122-346 Special Requirements
   A.   Signs and billboards. Advertising signs, billboards, and trade,
business, or industry identification signs, related to the principal structure
or use, shall not:
      1.   Be located in, overhang, or project into a residential yard;
      2.   Exceed two (2) times the height of the principal structure, not to
exceed forty (40) feet.
   B.   Lighted signs. Lighted signs shall be arranged so that there will be no
annoying glare directed or reflected toward residential buildings in a
residential district.
   C.   Maintenance of signs. All signs and billboards, including temporary
signs, shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition. In the event
their use shall cease, they shall be promptly removed and the surrounding area
restored to a condition free from refuse and rubbish.
   D.   Parking spaces. All parking spaces required under the provisions of
this district shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
requirements of Section
122-286.
   E.   Privacy fences. C-3, commercial district, when adjacent to residential
zoning, shall construct and effectively maintain a privacy fence.
   F.   Landscaping. Corner lot side street side shall have suitable
landscaping to enhance the site.
   G.   Sight proof fencing. Sight proof fencing shall not be erected on the
street side of the property to extend past the building line setback of the
adjoining residential property.
   H.   All development, new construction, additions, or remodels and/or
repairs in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the total linear feet of the
exterior walls of any building, including, but not limited to, the following
façades: screening, landscaping, lighting or other improvements to the exterior
building and/or lot shall be presented to the Planning Commission for review
and final approval prior to commencing any work thereon.
(Code 1991, § 12-315; Ord. No. 00-06, § 1(12-315), 6-5-2000; Ord. No. 00-14, §
2(12-315), 6-5-2000; Ord. No. 12-07, § I, 9-4-2012)
Sec 122-347 Building Facade
See Section
122-287.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 10-1-2007; Ord. No. 12-01, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 13-10, §
II, 2-4-2013)
DIVISION 122-2-12 PLANNED COMMERCIAL, C-4 DISTRICT
   
122-371   Purpose
   
122-372   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-373   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-374   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-375   Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   
122-376   Procedures
   
122-377   Special Requirements
   
122-378   Building Facade
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18.
Sec 122-371 Purpose
This special district is intended to encourage and facilitate the design of
small, planned shopping areas, developed as a unified grouping, in one (1) or
more buildings, of retail shops and stores outside of the central business
district. Any retail shopping areas permitted under this district shall be
developed as a unit, with adequate off-street parking areas, safe ingress and
egress, and appropriate landscaping and use of natural features to encourage a
safe and attractive area for commercial activity which will not be disruptive
of any residential environment.
(Code 1991, § 12-320)
Sec 122-372 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted principal uses and structures   Minimum required off-street
parking
Any use permitted in the C-1, central business district   Off-street parking
requirement shall be the same as set forth for each use in the C-1, central
business district; however, a common off-street parking facility for all of the
development's uses may be provided as long as the total number of parking
spaces is not less than the sum of the individual requirements
(Code 1991, § 12-321)
Sec 122-373 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions of these regulations and other City ordinances, the
following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the C-4, planned
commercial district:
   A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses and structures in this district; and
   B.   Solar collectors, whether as part of a structure or incidental to a
group of nearby structures when used for the purpose of providing energy for
heating or cooling of related principal structures.
   C.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
(Code 1991, § 12-322; Ord. No. 13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013)
Sec 122-374 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit the following uses and structures on review:
   A.   Office uses, provided that the total gross floor area for all office
uses shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the gross floor area for the
entire development.
   B.   Gasoline, service, or motor vehicle service station, provided that:
      1.   It is designed as an integral part of the overall development; and
      2.   It will not create a traffic pattern which is hazardous, unsafe, or
detrimental to the entire development.
   C.   Child day care center or child home care center is permitted on review
subject to the requirements in Section
122-164.
   D.   Telecommunication tower or antenna is permitted on review subject to
the requirements in Section
102-2.
   E.   Type II bed and breakfast establishments.
   F.   Family day home is permitted on review subject to the requirements in
Section 122-134.
(Code 1991, § 12-323; Ord. No. 99-03, § 1, 1-41999; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-323,
11-6-2000; Ord. No. 01-03, 3-5-2001; Ord. No. 14-07, § 1(iv), 7-7-2014)
Sec 122-375 Lot Area, Yard, And Height Requirements
   A.   The following are the lot area and width requirements for planned
commercial uses:
      1.   Area: One (1) acre.
      2.   Width: Fifty (50) feet at the building line.
   B.   The following are the minimum requirements for front, side, and rear
yard setbacks for planned commercial uses:
      1.   Front: Twenty-five (25) feet.
      2.   Side: Twenty-five (25) feet. Side adjacent to residential district.
      3.   Rear: There shall be a rear yard, alley, service court or
combination thereof of not less than thirty (30) feet.
(Code 1991, § 12-324)
Sec 122-376 Procedures
The Planning Commission and the City Council may zone, or rezone land as C-4,
planned commercial district, according to the following procedures:
   A.   Application shall be submitted in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Section
122-13.
   B.   Prior to submitting its final recommendation to the City Council, the
Planning Commission shall review the proposal using the following criteria:
      1.   Consistency with the City's comprehensive plan;
      2.   Compatibility of the proposal with existing and projected
development in adjacent areas;
      3.   Economic feasibility; and
      4.   Compliance with the provisions and standards included in Section
122-346, the special requirements for this district.
   C.   If the development is not under construction within two (2) years after
the effective date of the rezoning, the Planning Commission shall review the
status of the development, and, if it finds that the developer cannot proceed
immediately with the project in conformity with all the requirements set forth
in this division, this fact and the reasons thereof shall be reported to the
City Council, along with the Planning Commission's recommendation for a
suitable zoning district classification. The City Council may, at its
discretion, set and hold the required hearings and rezone the area to a more
suitable district.
   D.   Any substantial deviation from the development plan submitted at the
time of rezoning shall constitute a violation of the building permit
authorizing construction of the development. Substantial changes in the plan
shall be resubmitted to the Planning Commission and the City Council for review
and approval. No building permit shall be issued which is not in substantial
conformity with the approved development plan.
(Code 1991, § 12-325)
Sec 122-377 Special Requirements
Land may be zoned or rezoned as C-4, planned commercial district, only when the
following conditions, standards, and materials are met or provided:
   A.   Design characteristics. The proposed development shall be planned and
designed as a unified area, compatible with surrounding uses, both natural and
manmade, and considerate of existing vegetation, soils, topography, and
drainage ways. The proposal must promote creative use of natural open spaces
and include landscaping proposals. Project structural and street coverage shall
not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total land area.
   B.   Development plan. The applicant shall submit a formal development plan
in support of his rezoning application which shall include:
      1.   Total acreage;
      2.   Proposed structure locations;
      3.   Sizes;
      4.   Elevations;
      5.   Uses and floor plans;
      6.   Parking area locations and dimensions;
      7.   A drainage plan;
      8.   A landscaping plan; and
      9.   Open space and recreation area locations.
   Water and sewer plans shall also be provided, indicating the overall water
and sewer requirements of the development and the proposed means of
accommodating these needs. The development plan may provide for staged
development of the project and, if so, the same shall be indicated on the plan.
An economic study of the project shall also be included, showing the
feasibility of the development; if the proposed development encompasses an area
of more than five (5) acres, the economic impact of the proposal upon the
City's central business district shall also be shown in the economic
feasibility study.
   C.   Lot requirements. If any lots are platted for sale to other
individuals, the minimum dimensions shall be the same as for the same use in
the appropriate zoning district.
   D.   Off-street parking. The Planning Commission may recommend to the City
Council that additional or special parking areas be provided, based upon the
unique character or nature of the proposed project.
   E.   Subdivision regulations. The requirements of any existing and future
subdivision regulations adopted by the City must be met by the applicant for a
development under this zoning district, subsequent to the final approval of the
applicant's rezoning request, if the proposal contains one (1) or more lots
which are to be sold to other individuals; and
   F.   Signs. Advertising signs related to the development shall be designed
as an integral part of the project and shall be harmonious with surrounding
design features.
   G.   Privacy fence. C-4, planned commercial district, when adjacent to
residential zoning, shall construct and effectively maintain a privacy fence on
adjoining property lines.
   H.   Sight proof fencing. Sight proof fencing shall not be erected on the
street side of the property to extend past the building line setback of the
adjoining residential property.
   I.   All development, new construction, additions, or remodels and/or
repairs in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the total linear feet of the
exterior walls of any building, including, but not limited to, the following
façades: screening, landscaping, lighting or other improvements to the exterior
building and/or lot shall be presented to the Planning Commission for review
and final approval prior to commencing any work thereon.
(Code 1991, § 12-326; Ord. No. 00-06, § 1(12-326), 6-5-2000; Ord. No. 12-07, §
I, 9-4-2012)
Sec 122-378 Building Facade
See Section
122-287.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 10-1-2007; Ord. No. 12-01, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 13-10, §
II, 2-4-2013)
DIVISION 122-2-13 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SUBDIVISION 122-2-13-I IN GENERAL
SUBDIVISION 122-2-13-II RESTRICTED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL, I-1 DISTRICT
SUBDIVISION 122-2-13-III LIGHT INDUSTRIAL, I-2 DISTRICT
SUBDIVISION 122-2-13-IV HEAVY INDUSTRIAL, I-3 DISTRICT
SUBDIVISION 122-2-13-V INSTITUTIONAL/RESIDENTIAL, IR DISTRICTS
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18.
SUBDIVISION 122-2-13-I IN GENERAL
   
122-401   General Description
   
122-402   General Permitted Uses
   
122-403   Accessory Uses Permitted
   
122-404   Table Of Permitted Uses In Industrial Districts
   
122-405   Lot, Yard, And Height Requirements
   
122-406   Parking Requirements
   
122-407   Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
   
122-408   Building Facade
Sec 122-401 General Description
The regulations for the industrial districts are designed to:
   A.   Make available a range of suitable sites for all types of manufacturing
and related activities; and
   B.   Protect residences by separating them from manufacturing activities and
by prohibiting the use of such space for new residential development.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996)
Sec 122-402 General Permitted Uses
   A.   The permitted uses in the industrial districts are set forth in Section
122-404. Where the letter "x" appears on the line of the permitted use and in
the column of the district, the listed use is permitted. Where the letter "p"
appears instead of an "x", this use is permitted subject to obtaining a
conditional use permit from the Planning Commission.
   B.   In those cases where a use is not specifically listed in the table of
permitted uses, such use is to be allowed in the district containing similar
uses so long as such use is compatible with the purpose and intent of the
district as set forth in this division. The final interpretation as to the
permitted classification of unlisted uses by district shall be made by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996)
Sec 122-403 Accessory Uses Permitted
Accessory uses that are incidental to permitted uses shall be permitted in the
industrial districts subject to the approval of the Planning Commission.
Accessory uses may include signs, subject to
Chapter 86.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996)
Sec 122-404 Table Of Permitted Uses In Industrial Districts
Permitted Uses Zoning District Parking Zoning District Parking Group
                                       I-1 I-2 I-3
                                                                  Zoning
Permitted Uses Zoning District Parking                            District Parking
                                                                  I- I- I- Group
                                                                  1  2  3
Accessories for vehicles or equipment whose sale is permitted but x  x  x  4
not including the rebuilding of tires
Aerosol containers: filling on contract basis                     x  x  x  5
Air conditioning and heating equipment                            P  x  x  5
Aircraft parts: sales, service, rental, or repair, including      P  x  x  6
airframes and engines
Animal bones, offal, or waste: assembly, incinerator, processing,       P  6
or utilization
Animal and marine fats and oil: manufacturing and processing            P  6
Animal and poultry slaughter and processing                             P  6
Animal hospitals and veterinarians indoor or outdoor facilities   P  P  P
Apparel and other textile products                                x  x  x  5
Armature rewinding shop                                           x  x  x  5
Auditorium, or arena: public                                         x  x  1
Automatic merchandising establishment                                x  x  2
Automobile body and fender repair and painting                    x  x  x  8
Automobile, bus, truck dismantling, salvaging, or wrecking              P  8
Batching, or mixing plant, asphaltic, or Portland cement,               x  5
concrete, mortar, or plaster
Book bindery                                                      x  x  x  5
Bottling plant                                                    P  x  x  5
Brick, tile, or clay manufacturing                                      x  5
Building materials                                                P  x  x  4
Building materials or lumber: wholesale sales                     P  x  x  6
Cabinet maker                                                     x  x  x  4
Canvas or canvas products                                         x  x  x  5
Ceramic products                                                  x  x  x  5
Chemicals, compounding, or packaging                              x  x  x  5
Child day care center                                             P  P  2
Compounding, or cosmetics, toiletries, drugs and pharmaceutical   x  x  x  5
products
Computing, data processing, software preparation, or similar      x  x  x  5
service
Contract sorting, grading, and packing of fruits and vegetables         x  5
for grower
Direct selling organization retail                                P  x  x  3
Electrical equipment assembly and manufacture                     x  x  x  6
Engraving plant                                                   x  x  x  5
Fire extinguisher service                                         x  x  x  4
Foundries                                                               x  5
Furniture manufacturing                                           P  x  x  5
Glass or glass products                                              P  x  5
Grain milling or processing                                             x  5
Hair, felt, feather, or leather products                          x  x  x  5
Instrument and meter manufacturing                                x  x  x  6
Jewelry and watch manufacturing                                   x  x  x  5
Laboratory: Research, development or testing                      x  x  x  5
Leather goods fabrication                                         x  x  x  5
Medical or dental laboratory                                      x  x  x  3
Monument works                                                       x  x  4
Optical goods manufacturing                                       x  x  x  6
Orthopedic or medical supplies                                    x  x  x  5
Packing and crating service                                       P  x  x  5
Paint, enamel, lacquer, turpentine, varnish manufacturing            x  x  5
Paper products manufacturing                                            x  5
Plastic products, including luggage, tableware, or similar        P  x  x  5
products
Printing and publishing, including engraving, or photoengraving   x  x  x  5
Rubber products, natural, or synthetic manufacturing                    x  5
Scrap and waste materials handling, including building and              P  8
vehicle wrecking establishments and junkyards
Shoe manufacturing                                                x  x  x  5
Sporting, or athletic equipment manufacturing                     x  x  x  5
Steel products, fabrication, and assembly                            P  x  5
Telecommunication tower or antenna subject to requirements in §  P  P  P  See §
102-2                                                                      102-2
Warehousing enterprise                                            P  x  x  6
 
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-334.2, 11-6-2000; Ord. No.
06-03, § 1, 2-6-2006; Ord. No. 01-03, 3-5-2001; Ord. No. 14-07, § 1(v), 7-7-
2014)
Sec 122-405 Lot, Yard, And Height Requirements
No lot or yard shall be established or reduced in dimension or area in any
industrial district that does not meet the minimum requirements set forth in
the following tables. No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged
that will cause the maximum lot coverage or maximum height regulations to be
exceeded as set forth below:
 
Lot Regulations                     Zoning District
                                    I-1 I-2 I-3
                                            25
Minimum front yard depth (feet)     25  25  100, if adjacent to residential
                                            area
                                            300, if adjacent to residential
Minimum side yard depth             25  25  area 25, if adjacent to any other
                                            land use
                                            300, if adjacent to residential
Minimum rear yard depth             25  25  area 25, if adjacent to any other
                                            land use
Minimum depth of side street corner         25
lot                                 25  25  100, if adjacent to any residential
                                            area
 
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996)
Sec 122-406 Parking Requirements
All industrial uses shall provide off-street parking for employees, customers
and/or clients, and for vehicles used by the industry. Off-street parking
facilities or lots shall be designed, located, and constructed in accordance
with the following provisions:
   A.   The lot shall be located within two hundred (200) feet, exclusive of
street and alley widths, of the principal use and shall have direct access to a
street or alley.
   B.   Land upon which the lot is located shall be owned or controlled by the
same entity which owns or controls the land upon which the principal use is
located, except that the City may own and use the land solely for off street
parking purposes.
   C.   The intensity of light and the arrangement of reflecting devices shall
be such as not to interfere with the surrounding or adjacent residential uses.
   D.   All parking areas required under the provisions of this chapter shall
be surfaced with concrete, asphalt, or double bituminous asphalt pavement and
maintained in a manner such that no dust will result from continued use, unless
otherwise approved by the Planning Commission.
   E.   The front yard and exterior side yard areas of the lot in which a
parking lot is located shall include a landscaped area equal to five percent
(5%) of the parking area. Such landscaped area shall be maintained in good
condition. All parking areas which are not visible from a public street shall
be excluded from the landscaping requirement.
      1.   "Landscaping" shall be defined as live vegetation and/or other
features, such as decorative rock, bark, and other items commonly used to
improve the appearance of property.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996)
Sec 122-407 Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
The number of off-street parking spaces required for each use shall be
determined by reference to the following table of parking groups. When parking
spaces are used for the parking of vehicles for sale, in storage, or used in
the operation of a business, such parking spaces shall be provided in addition
to those otherwise required. If for any reason the classification of any use
for the purpose of determining the amount of off- street parking spaces to be
provided by such use is not readily determinable in this section, the
classification of use shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission and approved
by the City Council:
Parking Group Required Parking Spaces
Parking Group Required Parking Spaces
1             1 space for every 4 seats, plus 1 space for every 2 employees
2             1 space for every 200 square feet of floor area
3             1 space for every 300 square feet of floor area
4             1 space for every 400 square feet of floor area or 1 space for
              every 1.5 employees, whichever is larger
5             1 space for every 500 square feet of floor area or 1 space for
              every 1.5 employees, whichever is larger
6             1 space for every 1,000 square feet of floor area or 1 space for
              every 1.5 employees, whichever is larger
7             1 space for every 2,000 square feet of lot area
8             1 space for every 1.5 employees
9             1 space for every 500 square feet of lot area
10            1 space for every 1,000 square feet of lot area
11            1 space for every 100 square feet of lot area
 
   A.   "Floor area" shall mean the gross floor area within the outside
dimensions of a building, including each floor level, halls, lobbies, and
stairways. It shall not include floor space within the building reserved for
parking or loading vehicles and unimproved basement space or separate space
used only for building maintenance and utilities or exterior features of the
building such as stairs, porches, walkways, and other similar exterior
features.
   B.   "Lot area" shall mean the area of the portion of the lot actually being
used by the industry.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996)
Sec 122-408 Building Facade
See Section
122-287.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 10-1-2007; Ord. No. 12-01, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 13-10, §
II, 2-4-2013)
SUBDIVISION 122-2-13-II RESTRICTED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL, I-1 DISTRICT
   
122-431   General Description
   
122-432   Uses Permitted Generally
   
122-433   Special Requirements
Cross reference- Businesses. Ch.
18.
Sec 122-431 General Description
The purpose of the I-1, restricted light industrial district, is to provide a
location for industries which do not by their nature create nuisances. The
intent is to preserve this land for manufacturing, assembly plants, and
warehousing whose operation is completely confined within an enclosed building.
These industries may require direct access to rail, air, or street
transportation facilities; however, the size and volume of the raw materials
and finished products involved should not produce the volume of freight
generated by the uses of the light and heavy industrial districts. Buildings in
this district should be architecturally attractive and surrounded by landscaped
yards.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996)
Cross reference- Businesses. Ch.
18.
Sec 122-432 Uses Permitted Generally
Property and buildings in an I-1, restricted light industrial district shall be
used only as follows:
   A.   Any use, except a residential or child day care center use, permitted
in a C-3, general commercial district. No dwelling use shall be permitted
except sleeping facilities no larger than one hundred (100) square feet for
caretakers and security personnel employed on the premises. It is intended that
these regulations shall be interpreted as not permitting a dwelling unit to be
located on the same lot or within a structure used or intended to be used
primarily for nonresidential purposes.
   B.   All of the uses permitted under this section shall have their primary
operation conducted entirely within enclosed buildings and shall not emit any
dust or smoke, shall not emit noxious odor or fumes outside of the building
housing the operation, shall not cause vibrations or create electrical
interference, or shall not produce a noise level at the property line that is
greater than the average noise level occurring on the adjacent street. Any
article or material stored temporarily outside of an enclosed building as an
incidental part of the primary operation shall be so screened by ornamental
walls and fences, or evergreen plants that is at least six (6) feet high.
   C.   Not more than eighty percent (80%) of the lot shall be covered by
improvements. Off-street parking and loading facilities are considered
improvements in the I-1, restricted light industrial district. No improvement
shall exceed thirty-five (35) feet in height above the mean elevation of the
lot.
   D.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-331.1, 11-6-2000; Ord. No.
13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013)
Sec 122-433 Special Requirements
Sight proof fencing shall not be erected on the street side of the property to
extend past the building line setback of the adjoining residential property.
SUBDIVISION 122-2-13-III LIGHT INDUSTRIAL, I-2 DISTRICT
   
122-456   General Description
   
122-457   Uses Permitted Generally
   
122-458   Special Requirements
   
122-459   Building Facade
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18.
Sec 122-456 General Description
This industrial district is intended primarily for the conduct of
manufacturing, assembling, and fabrication whose operation is not completely
confined to an enclosed building.
These uses do not depend primarily on frequent personal visits of customers or
clients, but usually require good accessibility to major rail, air, or street
transportation facilities. Because of the traffic generated and other
potentially objectionable influences created in this district, a buffer or
setback area may be required between this district and any other zoning
district except I-1, restricted light industrial district and I-3, heavy
industrial district. Buildings in this district should be landscaped on the
street side of the building.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996)
Sec 122-457 Uses Permitted Generally
Property and buildings in an I-2, light industrial district shall be used only
as follows:
   A.   Any use, except a residential or child day care center use, permitted
in an I-1, restricted light manufacturing district. No dwelling use shall be
permitted, except sleeping facilities no larger than one hundred (100) square
feet for caretakers and security personnel employed on the premises. It is
intended that these regulations shall be interpreted as not permitting a
dwelling unit to be located on the same lot or within a structure used or
intended to be used primarily for nonresidential purposes.
   B.   All of the uses permitted under this section shall be conducted in such
a manner that no noxious odor, fumes, or dust will be emitted beyond the
property line of the lot on which the use is located. Any article or material
stored outside of an enclosed building as a part of the primary operation shall
be so screened by ornamental walls and fences, or evergreen plants that are at
least six (6) feet high.
   C.   Not more than eighty percent (80%) of the lot shall be covered by
improvements. Off-street parking and loading facilities are considered
improvements in the I-2, light industrial district. No improvement shall exceed
thirty-five (35) feet in height above the mean elevation of the lot.
   D.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-332, 11-6-2000; Ord. No.
13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013)
Sec 122-458 Special Requirements
Sight proof fencing shall not be erected on the street side of the property to
extend past the building line setback of the adjoining residential property.
Sec 122-459 Building Facade
See Section
122-287.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 10-1-2007; Ord. No. 12-01, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 13-10, §
II, 2-4-2013)
SUBDIVISION 122-2-13-IV HEAVY INDUSTRIAL, I-3 DISTRICT
   
122-481   General Description
   
122-482   Uses Permitted Generally
   
122-483   Special Requirements
   
122-484   Building Facade
   
122-485   Objectives And Use
   
122-486   Authorized Planned Unit Developments
   
122-487   PUD Review Criteria
   
122-488   Appropriate; Modifications To PUD
Cross reference- Businesses, Ch.
18.
Sec 122-481 General Description
The purpose of the I-3, heavy industrial district is to provide a location for
industries which may by their nature create nuisances. The intent is to
preserve this land especially for industry in locations that are located down
wind and separated from commercial and residential uses. Because of the
nuisances or other objectionable influences that may be created in this
district, a buffer or setback strip is required between this district and other
zoning districts except the I-1, restricted light industrial district and the
I-2, light industrial district.
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996)
Sec 122-482 Uses Permitted Generally
Property and buildings in an I-3, heavy industrial district shall be used for
any use except as follows:
   A.   All residential or child day care center uses except sleeping
facilities no larger than one hundred (100) square feet for caretakers and
security personnel employed on the premises. It is intended that these
regulations shall be interpreted as not permitting a dwelling unit to be
located on the same lot or within a structure used or intended to be used
primarily for nonresidential purposes.
   B.   All uses not complying with these regulations or any other City, State,
or federal regulation or law. Any article or material stored outside of an
enclosed building as a part of the primary operation shall be so screened by
ornamental walls and fences or evergreen plants that are at least six (6) feet
high.
   C.   Not more than eighty percent (80%) of the lot shall be covered by
improvements. Off-street parking and loading facilities are considered
improvements in the I-3, heavy industrial district. No improvement shall exceed
one hundred (100) feet in height above the mean elevation of the lot.
   D.   Portable storage and roll-off trash containers. See Section
122-103(F).
(Ord. No. 96-11, § 2, 8-5-1996; Ord. No. 00-25, § 12-333.1, 11-6-2000; Ord. No.
13-02, § 1, 1-7-2013)
Sec 122-483 Special Requirements
   A.   Sight proof fencing shall not be erected on the street side of the
property to extend past the building line setback of the adjoining residential
property.
   B.   All development, new construction, additions, or remodels and/or
repairs in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the total linear feet of the
exterior walls of any building, including, but not limited to, the following
façades: screening, landscaping, lighting or other improvements to the exterior
building and/or lot shall be presented to the Planning Commission for review
and final approval prior to commencing any work thereon.
(Ord. No. 12-07, § I, 9-4-2012)
Sec 122-484 Building Facade
See Section
122-287.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 10-1-2007; Ord. No. 12-01, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 13-10, §
II, 2-4-2013)
Sec 122-485 Objectives And Use
The planned unit development (PUD) is a specialized zoning district as defined
in Section 1 above [of Ord. No. 17-21] and in Chapter 122, Article 1, Section
122-6, Paragraph 135. The PUD is intended to maximize flexibility and
innovation in development by utilizing area sensitive site planning and design
to achieve a desirable mixture of compatible land use patterns that include
elements such as efficient pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems,
enhanced residential amenities, and allowances for the provision of usable open
space.
   A.   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of the planned unit
development is to:
      1.   Encourage innovative land development while maintaining appropriate
limitations on the character and intensity of use and assuring compatibility
with adjoining and proximate properties.
      2.   Permit flexibility within the development to maximize the unique
physical features of the site.
      3.   Encourage efficient use of land in the placement and clustering of
buildings and open areas, provision of circulation systems that achieve greater
connectivity, and the conservation of natural features, natural topography,
wooded areas, areas of historic significance, and environmentally sensitive
areas.
      4.   Achieve a continuity of function and design within the development,
encourage diversified living environments and land uses and provide a
development framework that will create, strengthen and/or enhance a strong
sense of neighborhood and community character.
      5.   Provide a vehicle for negotiating modifications in standard
development requirements to both encourage innovative development, and protect
the health, safety and welfare of the community.
   B.   Goals and objectives. The PUD shall achieve the following land use
objectives:
      1.   Minimize adverse effects upon surrounding property, the character of
the neighborhood, traffic conditions, parking, utilities or any other matters
affecting the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   Contribute to the revitalization and/or redevelopment of areas where
decline of any type has occurred.
      3.   Existing and planned.
      4.   Maintain consistency with the City's comprehensive plan, this
chapter, and other applicable plans, policies, standards and regulations.
      5.   Provide a development that contributes more to the general
prosperity, health, safety and welfare of the community than would otherwise be
provided through the standard zoning and development process.
(Ord. No. 17-21, § 2, 11-8-2017)
Sec 122-486 Authorized Planned Unit Developments
   A.   Appropriate-Use of a planned unit development.
      1.   The PUD is appropriately used when flexibility is desired that is
not allowed under the zoning code in return for a coordinated development that
provides greater public benefits, as outlined in the purpose and intent and is
not otherwise part of the development process.
      2.   The PUD is a design and planning tool that is not to be used to
circumvent policies or used in lieu of seeking variances to regulations.
      3.   Rezoning to a PUD within a special design district or design overlay
district may be appropriate in cases where a use or a mix of uses within the
design district is prohibited, but may be appropriate to a specific site. Where
rezoning is proposed within a special design district or design overlay
district, the PUD should:
         a.   incorporate the development regulations and guidelines of the
design district; and
         b.   be subject to the design review process for the design district.
   B.   Preliminary review. Applicants are encouraged to request preliminary
review by staff prior to formal submittal for rezoning to a PUD. Preliminary
review is most effective at the conceptual design phase, so that traffic,
circulation, drainage, infrastructure, and other contextual impacts of the
proposal may be considered for conformance with the comprehensive plan, and
applicable policies, guidelines, and regulations.
   C.   Authorized planned unit developments. A PUD maybe authorized by an
amendment to the Official Zoning Districts Map after public hearings by the
Planning Commission and City Council, provided it complies with the following
requirements.
      1.   Location and uses. A PUD shall be considered a special zoning
district, and may be authorized for any use, or combination of uses, permitted
in this chapter or such use that is unique in nature approved as appropriate by
the approval of the PUD by the City Council.
      2.   PUD requirements. The basis for review and approval of a PUD
application shall be the design statement, Master Development Plan Map and
related exhibits, which shall be adopted as a part of the rezoning ordinance,
in conformance with the requirements described in these regulations.
         a.   Planned unit development design statement.
            (1)   The PUD design statement shall be a written report containing
a minimum of the following elements:
               o   Title of the PUD.
               o   List of the owners and/or developers, including contact
information, and e-mail address(es).
               o   Statements on the PUD's general location and its
relationship to adjoining land uses, both existing and proposed and how the PUD
complies with the policies of the comprehensive plan.
               o   The reference to the existing PUD districts in the
development area and the surrounding area.
               o   An overview of the proposed development including a legal
description of the total property encompassed by the PUD boundary. A legal
description shall also be submitted for each tract within the PUD boundary that
is being proposed for various unrelated uses to determine the size and
intensity of each tract. An outline of the approximate phases and/or sequence
in which the development is proposed to be built, if any.
               o   Definitions of the land-use designations, including density
ranges and product types for residential development shown on the Master
Development Plan Map required by this section, including proposed restrictions,
and typical site layouts.
               o   A table setting the minimum and maximum total dwelling units
and nonresidential square footage, and the minimum acreage for common open
space, natural resource areas, public uses, and any other planned uses. A
description of residential and mixed-use neighborhoods; commercial, office, and
research development uses; common open space, natural resource areas, public
buildings, schools, and other public uses, and any other proposed uses.
               o   A list of all development regulations that will be applied,
including conventional zoning district regulations, requested variations to the
subdivision regulations, and any other special development regulations. A
statement on the existing and proposed streets, including right-of-way
standards and street design concepts.
               o   A description of the following physical characteristics of
the existing site: elevation, slope analysis, soil characteristics, tree cover,
etc.
               o   Drainage information describing the basic storm water
management method(s), and referencing any F.E.M.A. one hundred (100) year
floodplains, floodways, or other areas where a Letter of Map Revision is or may
be requested.
               o   A statement of utility lines and services to be installed,
including which lines will be dedicated to the City and which will remain
private.
               o   A statement specifying the number, type, height and display
area of signs. A description of lighting for the development.
               o   A description of trash collection facilities for the
development. A description of sidewalks, pedestrian paths and bikeways within
the development.
               o   A description of screening and landscaping for the
development, including any required buffering shall be at a minimum those
required and referenced in the landscaping and screening regulations, of this
chapter. Screening and landscaping shall be subject to landscaping ordinance in
effect at time of development of the PUD.
               o   A statement describing the guarantees and assurances to be
provided for the perpetual maintenance of common open space, drainage areas,
recreation areas, sidewalks, parking, private streets, and other privately
owned but common facilities serving the project.
               o   A statement describing any platting requirements for the
PUD.
            (2)   PUDs and Special Design Districts. If the PUD is proposing to
rezone from within a special design district or design overlay district, in
addition to the requirements listed for the design statement in this chapter,
the following shall be provided:
               o   Statement describing the incorporation of any development
regulations and guidelines of the design district into the PUD and whether the
PUD will be subject to the design review process.
               o   Description of how the PUD integrates into the context of
surrounding neighborhoods by describing the architectural style and uses of
existing and proposed structures within the same block and immediate
neighborhood.
               o   Description of how the PUD will be compatible with the
placement and amenities of adjacent structures with regard to setbacks,
orientation, height, sufficient off-street parking and landscaping/screening.
         b.   Master Development Plan Map. The PUD Master Development Plan Map
shall be a graphic representation of the development plan for the property
within the PUD boundary. The Plan shall be drawn at an appropriate scale, at a
maximum of one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet, on one (1) or more
twenty-four (24) inch by thirty-six (36) inch sheet(s). The purpose of the map
is to conceptually portray the development commitments described in the PUD
design statement. The complexity of the map information will depend upon the
number and extent of varied land uses in the PUD. The PUD Master Development
Plan Map shall be submitted in accordance with the following:
            (1)   Existing conditions.
               o   General location and acreage in the PUD.
               o   Sufficient information, including density of the surrounding
area, to demonstrate the relationship of the PUD to adjoining land uses,
existing or proposed.
               o   Topography map with a contour interval of not less than five
(5) feet.
               o   Common open space and natural resource areas on the site and
connected to adjacent sites, such as native rock outcroppings, steep slopes,
environmentally sensitive lands, wildlife habitats, stream corridors, and
significant vegetation, including tree canopy and healthy mature trees.
Specific location of right-of-way widths of adjacent arterial streets, and
connectivity points with adjacent sites.
               o   Areas where access to streets will be limited, and the
number where appropriate.
               o   A legal description, as previously indicated, for each
individual tract shown on the Master Development Map.
               o   Delineation of F.E.M.A. one hundred (100) year floodplain
and floodway, if applicable.
            (2)   Proposed PUD elements.
               o   Land use designations for each distinct use in the PUD,
including the identification of any public buildings, schools, and other public
uses.
               o   Public circulation system, including the general location of
collector and local streets, pedestrian paths and bikeways.
               o   General location of proposed pedestrian and bicycle linkages
between adjacent properties, showing points of connectivity with the
circulation system and to public transportation stops.
               o   General location of parking areas.
               o   General location of proposed open space, common areas,
drainage and recreation areas.
               o   General location of landscaping in common areas, parking
areas, and landscape buffering as required by the landscaping and screening
regulations, of this chapter.
            (3)   Related exhibits.
               o   Any other pertinent information/exhibits necessary for
review, approval and administration of the PUD.
   D.   Application process.
      1.   Upon receipt of a completed application and application fee for the
PUD, the staff shall transmit the application and all supporting material to
the various City departments involved with the review process, and to
appropriate officials or agencies of the City, County, adjoining counties or
municipalities, school and special districts, and other official bodies as
deemed necessary or mandated by law, including any review required by regional
or State bodies under applicable State or Federal law. Each department,
official, agency, or other official body shall consider all pertinent
information and shall provide staff with a report of their findings, comments
and recommendations in sufficient time for said findings, comments and
recommendations to be incorporated into the Planning Commission Staff Report.
      2.   Upon final approval by the City Council of the PUD design statement,
Master Development Plan Map and the subsequent ordinance of rezoning, the PUD
shall become a part of the Official Zoning Districts Map. The ordinance of
rezoning shall adopt the PUD design statement and Master Development Plan Map
by reference, and it shall be attached to said ordinance and become a part of
the official records of the City,
      3.   The PUD design statement and Master Development Plan Map shall
control the use and development of the property, and all building permits and
development requests shall be in accordance with said design statement and
Master Development Plan Map until it is otherwise amended by modifications to
PUD of the Code or by the City Council.
      4.   Approval of the PUD zoning district and related design statement and
Master Development Plan Map shall establish the basic uses, locations,
densities, and intensities for the PUD. However, for all Planned Unit
Developments, site plans and building and occupancy permits for specific uses
and buildings shall not be authorized until a Specific Plan has been approved
for all or part of the land area covered by the PUD.
   E.   Application for PUD Specific Plan. A Specific Plan shall be submitted
for review and approval by the Planning Commission at a regularly scheduled
public hearing for the entire area or a phased portion of the property included
in the PUD prior to approval of site plans and building permits for any
structure or building. The Specific Plan shall be drawn at an appropriate
scale, at a maximum of one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet, on one (1)
or more twenty-four (24) inch by thirty-six (36) inch sheet(s). Specific plans
shall include the following information:
      1.   A summary showing how the Specific Plan conforms to the design
statement and Master Development Plan Map, the total dwelling units in the
Specific Plan by type, the square footage of non-residential uses, and a
parking calculation of the required and provided spaces by use.
      2.   All elements of the Master Development Plan Map shall be
incorporated into the Specific Plan, with additional detail as follows:
         a.   A preliminary site plan for each building site in the Specific
Plan.
         b.   Lot layouts for residential uses and for single-family dwellings,
a typical site plan can be included.
         c.   Preliminary site plans shall show areas to be developed,
landscaped and paved, and existing and proposed buildings indicating:
            o   The maximum and minimum distances between buildings, between
building and property or building site boundaries. Percentage of building
coverage-
            o   Preliminary elevations for ail proposed structures. They shall
indicate building heights, materials, colors, and the general appearance of
proposed structures.
            o   A parking and loading plan.
            o   Preliminary landscape plan.
            o   Fencing, trash disposal, and related storage areas.
            o   Sign program and sign design and dimensions.
         d.   If the PUD is within a special design district or design overlay
district and is subject to design review, additional information shall be
submitted to the level of detail required for design review within the
respective district(s).
         e.   Submittal of a Specific Plan may be waived if any of the
following conditions are met:
            o   The site is to be utilized as currently developed. The PUD
proposes no new buildings or parking;
            o   The proposed use is agricultural or recreational in nature,
where no structures or few incidental structures totaling no more than two
thousand (2,000) square feet are proposed;
            o   All items listed in specific plan are included in PUD design
statement, Master Development Plan or are a part of the submittal exhibits
contained with the documents of the approved PUD Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 17-21, § 2, 11-8-2017)
Sec 122-487 PUD Review Criteria
   A.   Purpose. Because the PUD provides the opportunity for greater design
flexibility, mixed land uses and improved marketability, the applicant should
be prepared to provide amenities and services that might not be required or
possible in a conventional zoning district and subsequent development plan.
Review and approval is, therefore, a process of negotiation between the City
and the applicant to achieve the intent and purpose of these regulations and
the City's Comprehensive Plan.
The factors within this section should be specifically included as review
criteria for the evaluation of a PUD application. Other factors not listed
herein may also be considered in the review process to respond to specific
design and land use proposals.
   B.   Design standards.
      1.   The proposed PUD shall be designed to provide for the unified
development of the area in accordance with the directions, spirit and purpose
of the City's Comprehensive Plan, and the land uses and zoning districts
adjacent to it.
      2.   Design of the PUD may provide for modification of conventional
chapter requirements for elements such as yard area, density, setback and
height on individual lots, in accordance with the PUD design statement and
Master Development Plan Map.
      3.   Density, land use and intensity of use requirements shall be based
on the PUD design statement and Master Development Plan Map and shall be
reviewed carefully for conformance with the comprehensive plan.
      4.   Building, Plumbing, Mechanical or Electrical Code requirements shall
not be amended in the design of a PUD.
      5.   The maximum number of dwelling units within a PUD shall be based on
calculation of gross density, which shall be established in the PUD design
statement and Master Development Plan Map. Gross density shall be calculated by
dividing the total land area of a residential tract, exclusive of arterial
streets, by the number of dwelling units.
      6.   Location and type of housing shall be established in a general
pattern and shown on the Master Development Plan Map (where applicable).
   C.   Minimum design and construction standards for streets and alleys.
Streets and alleys for both urban and non-urban PUDs and shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with City standards and specifications for right-of-
way width and paving cross sections. If modifications are proposed they shall
be consistent with the following criteria and must be companion with the
appropriate subdivision plat.
      1.   Public streets and alleys. Proposed public street and alley
modifications shall satisfy the following criteria:
         a.   Street right-of-way and paving widths shall be adequate to
provide a traffic carrying and utility installation capacity related to the
design of the overall street system, the function of the individual street and
the land uses served.
         b.   Paving cross-sections shall be designed to be adequate to provide
acceptable drainage in conformity with the drainage plan for the PUD, to
receive loading commensurate with anticipated traffic, based on the design of
the overall street system, and to have a maintenance level commensurate with
that of facilities constructed to regular standards.
      2.   Private streets and alleys. Proposed private street and alley
modifications shall satisfy the criteria for public facility modifications
listed above, and the owner/applicant shall provide any ongoing and long-term
maintenance of private street and alley facilities that will not be provided by
the City.
   D.   General design and development guidelines.
      1.   Density. Proposed residential densities should conform with the
City's Comprehensive Plan and should be allocated in a manner, and at a scale,
that will be compatible with adjacent developed neighborhoods.
      2.   Amenities. Amenities should be considered an important justification
for development and City approval of a PUD. Where gross or net densities are to
be increased to promote economy of development, or where other methods of land
use intensification are proposed, usable open space should be furnished, along
with provisions for its permanent retention and continued maintenance.
Sidewalks and pedestrian ways should be planned where necessary to provide for
both an amenity and public safety.
      3.   Relationship to abutting uses.
         a.   The Master Development Plan Map shall show the relationship of
the PUD to abutting properties such as commitments to landscaping, screening,
earthen berms or similar techniques to:
            (1)   Create a visual transition of landscaping to adjoining lots
and developments.
            (2)   Screen incompatible uses.
            (3)   Minimize any negative impact of the development on adjacent
sites and roadways.
         b.   It is appropriate to specifically establish areas with height
limitations where a transition to more intense uses, or where a higher
intensity development abuts a lower intensity area, is proposed.
         c.   Where a PUD proposes a mix of uses which would generally be
incompatible with a conventional development, the PUD design statement should
specifically establish appropriate guidelines to assure harmonious development.
      4.   Site design.
         a.   Arrange structures and buildings on the site to:
            (1)   Complement existing development on adjacent properties by
similar placement and proportion of building form(s).
            (2)   Screen undesirable views, such as service areas and trash
receptacles, from pedestrian views and public streets.
         b.   Demonstrate that the arrangement of open space or natural
features on the site will create desirable and functional environments for
patrons, pedestrians and occupants by:
            (1)   Preserving unique natural resources such as significant
vegetation, watercourses, or native rock outcroppings, where possible.
            (2)   Providing protection to preserve existing healthy, mature
trees where they exist.
            (3)   Respecting desirable natural resources on adjacent sites.
            (4)   Promoting the use and preservation of existing natural
watercourses and patterns of storm-water disposal in the design of drainage
facilities, where allowable.
         c.   Conform to crime prevention through environmental design
principles by:
            (1)   Providing convenient, safe, well-marked and direct routes for
pedestrian connections from the public street to building entrances;
            (2)   Providing pedestrian scaled lighting for pedestrian
circulation and visibility;
            (3)   Providing effective lighting for vehicular traffic that does
not overwhelm the quality of pedestrian lighting;
            (4)   Framing open space with buildings that visually contain and
provide for natural surveillance;
            (5)   Providing for visibility around structures, screens, fences
or enclosures to avoid the creation of areas of concealment.
         d.   Provide site illumination that is designed, located, and
installed to achieve specific average foot-candles in order to provide safe
pedestrian and vehicle circulation as well as minimize adverse impacts on
adjacent properties. This standard shall apply to light poles and/or wall
mounted luminaries for all areas within the site to achieve the following
standards:
            (1)   Provide site illumination to achieve a maintained average of
three (3) foot-candles (not less than .75 foot-candles) throughout all parking
areas;
            (2)   Provide site illumination to achieve a maintained average of
six (6) foot-candles (not less than 1.5 foot-candles):
               o   Along pedestrian walkways and common areas;
               o   Within areas of concealment in need of visual access;
               o   At all building entries and exits.
            (3)   Provide site illumination that is designed, located, and
installed in a manner to minimize light trespass on adjacent properties by
utilizing cutoff luminaries, house- side shields, and/or light-limiting
accessories where needed.
         e.   Circulation systems.
            (1)   Organize circulation systems within the site to:
               o   Provide adequate and safe pedestrian and vehicular
circulation by defining walkways and distinguishing areas of foot traffic from
vehicular movement using methods such as crosswalks and pathway striping,
landscaping, and sidewalks.
               o   Provide continuous pedestrian and vehicular connections to
adjacent sites using sidewalks, streets, and open-space linkages where
physically possible.
               o   Provide pedestrian pathways that connect parking areas and
points of destination. Provide pedestrian access to public transportation
stops.
         f.   Common access. In commercial or industrial developments, the PUD
should establish specific standards and locations for common access driveways,
both within the development and abutting arterial streets. Approval of the
bonus provisions in this chapter for shared parking facilities should only be
authorized in a PUD where this access commitment is provided for in the PUD
design statement.
(Ord. No. 17-21, § 2, 11-8-2017)
Sec 122-488 Appropriate; Modifications To PUD
   A.   Administrative approval of minor amendments.
      1.   The Director or Administrative Official designated by the City
Manager or City Council shall be permitted to approve minor amendments and
adjustments to the PUD design statement or Master Development Plan Map,
provided the following conditions are satisfied:
         a.   The project boundaries are not altered.
         b.   Uses other than those specifically approved in the PUD are not
added.
         c.   Percentage of area devoted to specific uses may not be increased
or decreased by more than twenty percent (20%) of the area devoted to the
specific use. Uses maybe deleted, but not to the extent that the character of
the project is substantially altered.
         d.   The allocation of land to particular uses or the relationship of
uses within the project, is not substantially altered.
         e.   The density of housing is not increased by more than twenty
percent (20%) or decreased by more than thirty percent (30%).
         f.   The land area allocated to non-residential uses is not increased
or decreased by more than twenty percent (20%).
         g.   Floor area, if prescribed, is not increased or decreased by more
than twenty percent (20%).
         h.   Floor area ratios, if prescribed, are not increased.
         i.   Open space areas or ratios, if prescribed, are not decreased.
         j.   Screening and fencing requirements, provided amendments shall not
substantially alter the PUD.
         k.   Height restrictions, yard requirements, lot coverage
restrictions, and other area, height and bulk requirements prescribed in the
PUD Design Statement are not altered by more than twenty percent (20%).
         l.   The circulation system is not substantially altered in design,
configuration or location, and has the approval of the Traffic Management
Division.
         m.   The design and location of access points to the project are not
substantially altered, either in design or capacity and have the approval of
the Traffic Management Division.
         n.   Administrative amendments sought for any PUD subject to design
review in a special design district shall be subject to the design review
process of the appropriate district.
      2.   The Director shall determine if proposed amendments to an approved
PUD satisfy the above criteria. If the Director finds that these criteria are
not satisfied, an amended PUD shall be submitted for full review and approval
according to the procedures set forth in this article.
      3.   Change or amendment to an approved PUD. Except, as provided above
for administrative approval of minor amendments, specific conditions imposed
with respect to the approval of the PUD, as specified in the PUD design
statement, shall not be changed or amended in any way except by action of the
City Council after review and recommendation by the Planning Commission and
upon such notice as provided by 11 O.S. § 43- 105 and 43-106, and Section
122-488, Administrative Procedures, of this chapter. This section is enacted
pursuant to the authority specified in Paragraph C of Title 11 Oklahoma
Statutes § 43-111.
(Ord. No. 17-21, § 2, 11-8-2017)
SUBDIVISION 122-2-13-V INSTITUTIONAL/RESIDENTIAL, IR DISTRICTS
   
122-490   General Description
   
122-491   Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
   
122-492   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-493   Lot Area, Yard And Height Requirements
   
122-494   Special Requirements
   
122-495   Uses Permitted Generally
   
122-496   Building Facade
Sec 122-490 General Description
Institutional/residential district zoning classification includes but is not
limited to, the use of a building or structure, or a portion thereof, to house
people having physical and/or mental limitations because of health or age or
for medical treatment or other care or treatment. It also includes the housing
of people who are detained for penal or correctional purposes or in which the
liberty of the occupants is restricted.
Institutional/residential occupancies are classified as: IR-1, IR-2, IR-3 and
IR-4. (Ord. No. 02-12, § 2(12-390), 8-5-2002)
Sec 122-491 Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
The minimum off-street parking requirements are as follows:
   A.   Adult day care home: Four (4) spaces.
   B.   All other IR zoning: One (1) space per employee plus one (1) space for
every two (2) beds.
Adequate off-street provisions for loading and unloading of supplies and
materials must be submitted to code administration for approval.
(Ord. No. 02-12, § 2(12-395), 8-5-2002)
Sec 122-492 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted principal
uses and structures in any particular zoning district, including but not
limited to storage sheds and similar structures not involved in the conduct of
business on the premises and located on the same lot or a contiguous lot under
the same ownership, are permitted provided that:
   A.   Such structures and uses shall not encroach upon the front, side or
rear yard setback requirements of the principal or main structures.
   B.   Such structures shall not encroach upon any utility, street, alley or
drainage easement.
(Ord. No. 02-12, § 2(12-396), 8-5-2002)
Sec 122-493 Lot Area, Yard And Height Requirements
   A.   The following are the minimum lot area and width requirements for:
      1.   Adult day care home.
         a.   Area: Eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
         b.   Width: Sixty (60) square feet at the building line.
      2.   All other IR zoning.
         a.   Area: One (1) acre.
         b.   Width: Sixty (60) square feet at the building line.
   B.   The following are the minimum requirements for front, side and rear
yard setbacks for:
      1.   Adult day care home. Same as the R-2, single-family residential
district requirements for single-family dwellings.
      2.   All other IR zoning.
         a.   Front: Thirty-five (35) feet.
         b.   Rear: Thirty-five (35) feet.
         c.   Side: Thirty-five (35) feet.
   C.   The following are the maximum requirements for height in all IR zoning:
Two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-five (35) feet.
(Ord. No. 02-12, § 2(12-397), 8-5-2002)
Sec 122-494 Special Requirements
   A.   All IR zoning classifications when adjacent to residential zoning
classifications shall construct and effectively maintain a privacy fence on an
adjoining property line.
   B.   Sight proof fencing shall not be erected on the street side of the
property to extend past the building line setback of the adjoining residential
property.
(Ord. No. 02-12, § 2(12-398), 8-5-2002)
Sec 122-495 Uses Permitted Generally
   A.   Institutional/residential 1. This occupancy shall include buildings or
parts thereof housing adults who because of age, mental disability or other
reasons, live in a supervised residential environment that provides personal
care services. The occupants are capable of responding to an emergency
situation with limited physical assistance from staff. This group shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the following: adult day care centers and
assisted living facilities. Facilities with seven (7) or fewer persons shall be
allowed in the R-2 district, permitted on review. Facilities housing at least
eight (8) and not more than sixteen (16) persons, shall be allowed in the R-
4 district, permitted on review.
   B.   Institutional/residential 2. This occupancy shall include buildings and
structures used for medical, surgical, psychiatric, nursing or custodial care
on a twenty-four (24) hour basis of more than five (5) persons who are not
capable of self- preservation. This group shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   Extended care facilities.
      2.   Residential treatment center.
      3.   Hospitals.
      4.   Nursing homes, rest homes, and convalescent homes.
   Facilities with seven (7) or fewer persons shall be allowed in the R-
2 district, permitted on review. Facilities housing at least eight (8) and not
more than sixteen (16) persons, shall be allowed in the R-4 district, permitted
on review.
   C.   Institutional/residential 3. This occupancy shall include buildings or
parts thereof housing more than five (5) persons on a twenty-four (24) hour
basis, who, because of age, mental disability or other reasons live in a
supervised residential environment that provides treatment and/or
rehabilitation services. The occupants are capable of responding to an
emergency situation with limited physical assistance from the staff. This group
shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Halfway houses.
      2.   Group care facilities.
      3.   Congregate care residences.
      4.   Social rehabilitation facilities.
      5.   Alcohol and drug centers.
      6.   Mental hospitals.
      7.   Detoxification facilities.
   Facilities in this category with five (5) or fewer persons shall be allowed
in the R-4 district, permitted on review.
   D.   Institutional/residential 4. This occupancy shall include buildings and
structures that are inhabited by more than five persons who are under restraint
or security. An IR-4 facility is occupied by persons who are generally
incapable of self- preservation due to security measures not under the
occupants control. This group shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   Prisons.
      2.   Jails.
      3.   Reformatories.
      4.   Detention centers.
      5.   Correctional centers.
      6.   Prerelease centers.
(Ord. No. 02-12, § 2(12-391, 12-392, 12-393, 12-394), 8-5-2002)
Sec 122-496 Building Facade
See Section
122-287.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 10-1-2007; Ord. No. 12-01, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 13-10, §
II, 2-4-2013)
DIVISION 122-2-14 FLOODWAY, F-1 DISTRICT
   
122-506   Purpose
   
122-507   Permitted Principal Uses
   
122-508   Permitted Accessory Uses
   
122-509   Uses Permitted On Review
   
122-510   Special Requirements
Cross reference- Floods, Ch.
42.
Sec 122-506 Purpose
This district is intended to comprise those portions of the community's
floodplain areas adjoining watercourses which are reasonably required to carry
and discharge the floodwaters of the one hundred (100) year flood. Such flood
hazard areas are unsuitable for residential, commercial, or industrial
purposes. It is the purpose of this district to protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare by regulating uses in the floodway which are
dangerous to such health or safety in times of flood or cause increases in
flood heights or velocities in upstream, adjacent, or downstream areas creating
damage to property. A secondary purpose of this district is to protect
individuals from unknowingly purchasing lands which are unsuited for structural
use purposes because of flood hazards.
(Code 1991, § 12-340)
Sec 122-507 Permitted Principal Uses
The following uses having a low flood damage potential and not obstructing
flood flows shall be permitted within the F-1, floodway district to the extent
that they are not prohibited by any other regulations, and provided that they
do not require structures, fill, or storage of materials or equipment.
No use shall adversely affect the capacity of the channels or floodways of any
tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or
system, nor shall it be detrimental to uses permitted in the adjoining F-2,
floodway fringe (overlay) district, or other districts within the F-2, floodway
fringe (overlay) district:
   A.   Agricultural uses, such as:
      1.   General farming;
      2.   Pasture;
      3.   Grazing;
      4.   Outdoor plant nurseries;
      5.   Horticulture;
      6.   Truck farming;
      7.   Forestry;
      8.   Sod farming; or
      9.   Wild crop harvesting;
   B.   The keeping of agricultural livestock, in accordance with other City
ordinances relating thereto;
   C.   Public or private recreational uses or uses similar in nature, such as:
      1.   Golf courses;
      2.   Tennis courts;
      3.   Archery ranges;
      4.   Picnic grounds;
      5.   Boat launching ramps;
      6.   Swimming areas;
      7.   Parks;
      8.   Wildlife and nature preserves;
      9.   Game farms;
      10.   Fish hatcheries;
      11.   Shooting preserves;
         a.   Target ranges;
      12.   Reserved.
      13.   Hunting and fishing areas; and
      14.   Walking and riding trails;
   D.   Public or private open spaces;
   E.   Residential lawns, gardens, parking, and play areas; and
   F.   Docks, piers and other water-related uses.
(Code 1991, § 12-341)
Sec 122-508 Permitted Accessory Uses
Subject to the provisions of these regulations and other City ordinances, the
accessory uses permitted in the F-1, floodway district, shall be uses clearly
incidental and necessary to the permitted principal uses in this district,
provided that:
   A.   Such uses shall not require fill of any type;
   B.   Such uses shall not adversely affect the channel or floodway capacity
of any main stream, tributary, drainage ditch, or other drainage facility; and
   C.   Such uses shall not be detrimental to uses permitted in the adjoining
F-2, floodway fringe (overlay) district, or other districts within the F-2,
floodway fringe (overlay) district.
(Code 1991, § 12-342)
Sec 122-509 Uses Permitted On Review
Subject to the requirements of Article 1 of this chapter, the Planning
Commission may permit the following uses on review, provided that all of the
standards set forth in Section
122-510 are met:
   A.   Extraction of sand, gravel, or other materials;
   B.   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands;
   C.   Circuses, carnivals, and similar transient amusement enterprises;
   D.   Stables;
   E.   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials; and
   F.   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and pipelines.
(Code 1991, § 12-343)
Sec 122-510 Special Requirements
Prior to final approval of a use permitted on review in the F-1, floodway
district, the following standards must be met:
   A.   No use shall be permitted which is detrimental to existing or permitted
uses in the adjoining F-2, floodway fringe (overlay) district, or other
districts within the F-2, floodway fringe (overlay) district;
   B.   No use shall be permitted which is in conflict with policies
recommended by the comprehensive plan of the City;
   C.   No structure, temporary, or permanent, fill, deposit, obstruction,
storage of materials or equipment, or other use may be allowed which, acting
alone or in combination with existing or future uses, unduly affects the
capacity of the floodway or increases the water surface elevation of the one
hundred (100) year flood more than one (1) foot at any point;
   D.   Before any fill may be deposited in the floodway, certification by a
professional registered engineer or architect must be provided, demonstrating
that such fill shall not result in any increase in flood levels. Such
certification shall be accompanied by a plan showing the uses to which the
filled land will be put and the final dimensions of the proposed fill. Such
fill, if allowed, shall be protected against erosion by rip-rap, vegetative
cover, or bulk heading;
   E.   No structures shall be designed for human habitation. Any structures
permitted shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation and shall be placed
with the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow;
   F.   Service facilities, such as electrical equipment, shall be constructed
one (1) foot above the flood protection elevation for the particular area, and
flood proofed; and
   G.   Storage or processing of materials that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or which could cause injury in time of flooding are prohibited. All
other similar materials must be firmly anchored or readily and quickly
removable prior to flooding.
(Code 1991, § 12-344)
DIVISION 122-2-15 FLOODWAY FRINGE, F-2 DISTRICT
   
122-536   Purpose
   
122-537   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-538   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-539   Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
   
122-540   Special Requirements
Cross reference- Floods, Ch.
42.
Sec 122-536 Purpose
This overlay district provides special regulations designed to reduce flood
losses in those areas of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, which are
subject to periodic flooding and therefore require special consideration before
development is permitted to occur. The requirements of this overlay district
are in addition to the requirements contained in the basic, underlying zoning
districts.
(Code 1991, § 12-350)
Sec 122-537 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
   Permitted principal uses and structures   Minimum required off-street
parking
      1.   Any use permitted in the F-l, floodway district   Not applicable;
and
      2.   Structures or substantial improvements to structures, provided that
they meet all of the conditions set forth in Section 122- 510   Minimum parking
requirements shall be the same as required by the underlying zoning district in
which the use is allowed.
(Code 1991, § 12-351)
Sec 122-538 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions of these regulations and other City ordinances, the
following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the F-2, floodway
fringe district, provided that all of the standards set forth in Section
122-540 below are met: uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to
the permitted principal uses and structures in this district.
(Code 1991, § 12-352)
Sec 122-539 Uses And Structures Permitted On Review
The Planning Commission may require that any permitted principal use or
structure be subject to the use permitted on review procedure in Article 1 of
this chapter when any of the data provided in accordance with Section
122-540 to the commission is incomplete, erroneous, or subject to question.
(Code 1991, § 12-353)
Sec 122-540 Special Requirements
All of the following conditions must be met prior to the issuance of a building
permit for construction of or substantial improvements to any structure in the
F-2, floodway fringe district. The property owner/applicant shall provide, with
the building permit application, such topographic, engineering, or other data
as may be required to determine the effects of the structure or fill on the
flow of water or the effects of flooding on the proposed structure, or fill:
   A.   Structures must be constructed so that the lowest floor, including
basement, is elevated one (1) foot above the level of the one hundred (100)
year flood;
   B.   Fill for such structures shall extend at such elevation (subsection (A)
of this section) at least fifteen (15) feet at the front and rear and five (5)
feet at the sides beyond such structure;
   C.   No use shall be constructed which will adversely affect the capacity of
channels or floodways of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or
any other drainage system by increasing the water surface elevation of the one
hundred (100) year flood more than one (1) foot at any point;
   D.   Construction materials and methods must be used which are flood-
resistant and will minimize flood damage;
   E.   All buildings, structures, mobile homes, equipment, materials, or
applicable uses shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement which could damage other structures or restrict bridge
openings or other narrow sections of the stream;
   F.   Waste disposal and water supply facilities shall be modified or
protected to eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into such systems and
discharges from such systems into the floodwaters; and
   G.   New construction or substantial improvements of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including the basement, elevated to the level of the one hundred (100)
year flood elevation or, together with utility and sanitary facilities, shall
be flood proofed so that the structure is watertight below the one hundred
(100) year flood level, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads, as well as the effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify in writing at the
time of the submission of the building permit application that these standards
will be met by the proposal.
(Code 1991, § 12-354)
DIVISION 122-2-16 SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT CONDITIONS, S-L DISTRICT
   
122-566   Purpose
   
122-567   Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-Street
Parking
   
122-568   Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
   
122-569   Procedures
   
122-570   Special Requirements
Sec 122-566 Purpose
This overlay district provides special regulations for development in areas
containing environmental conditions which may be sensitive to development or
hazardous to develop or in areas which would be difficult to provide with
suitable and adequate utilities and facilities. The requirements of the overlay
district are in addition to the requirements contained in the basic, underlying
zoning districts.
(Code 1991, § 12-360)
Sec 122-567 Permitted Principal Uses And Structures; Minimum Required Off-
Street Parking
The following are the permitted principal uses and structures and minimum
required off- street parking:
 
Permitted principal uses and structures Minimum required off-street parking
Any use permitted in the underlying     Off-street parking requirements shall
zoning districts, provided that such    be the same as may be established for
use meets all applicable requirements   the use in the applicable underlying
established for this district.          zoning district.
 
(Code 1991, § 12-361)
Sec 122-568 Permitted Accessory Uses And Structures
Subject to the provisions of these regulations and other City ordinances, the
following accessory uses and structures are permitted in the S-l, special
development conditions district, provided that all of the standards set forth
in Section
122-570 are met:
   A.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses and structures in this district;
   B.   Solar collectors, whether as part of a structure or incidental to a
group of nearby structures, when use for the purpose of providing energy for
heating, or cooling of related principal structures.
(Code 1991, § 12-362)
Sec 122-569 Procedures
   A.   The City Planning Commission and City Council shall review all
proposals for development within a designated S-1, special development
conditions district, utilizing the use permitted on review procedures
established in Article 1 of these zoning regulations.
   B.   Prior to submitting its recommendation to the City Council, the City
Planning Commission shall review the proposal using the following criteria:
      1.   Consistency with the City's comprehensive plan; and
      2.   Compliance with the applicable provisions and standards included in
Section
122-570.
   C.   If rezoning of the land is necessary, the City Planning Commission
chairman shall inform the applicant of the need to initiate the rezoning
process.
(Code 1991, § 12-363)
Sec 122-570 Special Requirements
Land within the S-1, special development conditions district, may be developed
following review by the Planning Commission and City Council in accordance with
the following requirements:
   A.   The applicant shall submit a development plan if the proposal is for
more than one (1) lot or a building site plan, if the proposal is for one (1)
lot only. Development or building site plan requirements shall be the same as
the requirements for development plans in the R-6, planned residential
development district, or the C-4, planned commercial district, depending upon
the nature of the development;
   B.   The development or building site plan shall be considered by the
Planning Commission and City Council using the following review criteria:
      1.   The provision of safe building sites for structures;
      2.   Provision of safe access for pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      3.   Use of natural topography to minimize cutting and grading in traffic
way construction;
      4.   Protection of possible aquifer recharge areas;
      5.   Prevention of soil erosion;
      6.   Use of innovative design and construction techniques to encourage
preservation and compatible use of unique natural features and open spaces; and
      7.   Consideration of soil types and problems in the development and use
of land; and
   C.   If the development proposal constitutes a subdivision, as defined
herein or in
Chapter 94, the requirements of the subdivision regulations must be met by the
applicant prior to the issuance of any building permits for actual
construction, but subsequent to the final approval of the applicant's zoning
request.
(Code 1991, § 12-364)
DIVISION 122-2-17 HISTORIC, H DISTRICTS
   
122-596   Purpose
   
122-597   Procedures For Historic District Designation
   
122-598   Administrative Procedures For Historic Districts
   
122-599   Special Requirements
Sec 122-596 Purpose
This overlay district is designed to encourage the protection, stabilization,
rehabilitation and restoration of the City's identified neighborhoods of
historic, architectural, social, or visual significance and the individual
landmarks, landmark sites, and historic features located therein in order to
safeguard the City's historic and cultural heritage as embodied and reflected
in such designated historic districts. The requirements of this overlay
district are in addition to the requirements contained in the basic, underlying
zoning districts.
(Code 1991, § 12-370)
Sec 122-597 Procedures For Historic District Designation
   A.   The Planning Commission and the City Council shall review all proposals
for the creation of specific historic districts authorized under the general
provisions of this district utilizing the zoning amendment procedures
established in Section
122-13, with the following exceptions:
      1.   Study of any proposed historic district may be initiated by the
Planning Commission, as well as by the private sector;
      2.   No fee shall be charge for review of proposed historic districts;
and
      3.   Notice of public hearings shall be given to all affected persons by
newspaper publication.
   B.   The Planning Commission and the City Council shall review only historic
district proposals which:
      1.   Meet the provisions of Section
122-599; and
      2.   Are based upon the development of a proposed historic district plan
and accompanying historic district ordinances.
   C.   Each historic district shall be numbered and titled (for example, H-1,
old town historic district, and H-2, railroad yards historic district) and
shall be adopted as an individual ordinance.
   D.   Upon the adoption by ordinance of any designated historic district, the
ordinance shall be placed in the records of the clerk to become a legal part of
the zoning regulations.
(Code 1991, § 12-371)
Sec 122-598 Administrative Procedures For Historic Districts
   A.   Review of building permit applications. All building permit
applications for work in an area officially designated as an historic district
shall first be reviewed by the City Planning Commission for compliance with the
terms of the applicable historic district ordinance.
   B.   Time limit for review. The commission shall have thirty (30) days from
the date of receipt of the building permit application to review the
application.
   C.   Approval of permit issuance. If the Planning Commission determines that
the activity proposed by the application is in compliance with the provisions
of the applicable historic district ordinance and will not destroy or adversely
affect any landmark, landmark site, historic district property, or the overall
character of the historic district, the commission may approve, in writing, the
issuance of the building permit.
   D.   Withholding of approval. If the Planning Commission determines that a
landmark, landmark site, historic district property, or the overall character
of the historic district would be adversely affected by the proposed change,
the commission may withhold its approval of the granting of the building
permit.
   E.   Transmission of disapproval; meeting with applicant. If the Planning
Commission refuses to approve issuance of the building permit, it shall
transmit its reasons therefor, in writing, to the applicant within seven (7)
days of such decision. The commission shall also request that the applicant
meet with the commission to work out a mutually acceptable agreement to avoid
the adverse effects, maintain historic, architectural, social, or visual
integrity, and achieve the applicant's objectives. If no plan of agreement can
be reached by the Planning Commission and the applicant within six (6) months
of the date of the Planning Commission's letter of permit refusal to the
applicant, the City building inspector may issue the building permit, without
approval of the commission, if the applicant requests issuance of the permit.
   F.   Additional procedures or requirements. The Planning Commission may
incorporate additional administrative procedures or requirements in individual
historic district ordinances in order to supplement or complement the basic
procedures outlined in this section.
(Code 1991, § 12-372)
Sec 122-599 Special Requirements
   A.   Each historic district ordinance shall contain, as a minimum, material
to fit the following outline:
      1.   Boundaries;
      2.   Special administrative provisions;
      3.   Historic district plan preparation;
      4.   Character of the area;
      5.   General design regulations;
      6.   Permitted uses;
      7.   Off-street parking provisions;
      8.   Signs; and
      9.   Public facilities design and construction;
   B.   Any building permit application or historic district proposal for which
a rezoning request or requests must be made, or for which a waiver or variance
of the City's adopted building code must be obtained, shall be accompanied by
the rezoning request, in accordance with the provisions of Section
122-13 of Article 1 of this chapter, or a written request to the appropriate
agency for the waiver, or variance.
(Code 1991, § 12-373)
DIVISION 122-2-18 MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
   
122-626   Short Title
   
122-627   Definitions
   
122-628   Airport Zones
   
122-629   Airport Zone Height Limitations
   
122-630   Use Restrictions
   
122-631   Nonconforming Uses
   
122-632   Permits And Variances
   
122-633   Enforcement
   
122-634   Board Of Adjustment
   
122-635   Appeals
   
122-636   Judicial Review
   
122-637   Penalties
   
122-638   Conflicting Regulations
   
122-639   Acquisition Of Air Rights
Sec 122-626 Short Title
This division shall be known and may be cited as the "Purcell Municipal Airport
Zoning Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 1, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-627 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   A.   Airport means the City airport.
   B.   Airport elevation means feet above mean sea level at the highest point
on the runway surface.
   C.   Airport hazard means any structure or tree or use of land which
obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking
off at an airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of
aircraft. Airport hazard area means any area of land or water upon which an
airport
   D.   hazard might be established if not prevented as provided in this
division.
   E.   Approach surface means a surface longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the
primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation
slope set forth in Section
122-629. In a plane, the perimeter of the approach surface coincides with the
perimeter of the approach zone.
   F.   Approach transitional horizontal and conical zones means zones as set
forth in Section
122-628.
   G.   Board of Adjustment means a board consisting of five (5) members
appointed by the trustees as provided in 3 O.S. § 110, as amended.
   H.   Conical surface means a surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty (20) to one (1) for a
horizontal distance of four thousand (4,000) feet.
   I.   Height, for the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones
set forth in this division and shown on the zoning map, means the datum which
shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   J.   Horizontal surface means a horizontal plane one hundred fifty (150)
feet above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plane
coincides with the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
   K.   Nonconforming use means any preexisting structure, object of natural
growth, or the use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this
division or an amendment thereto.
   L.   Obstruction means any structure, growth, or any other object, including
a mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in Section
122-629.
   M.   Person means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association, or governmental entity and includes any
trustee, receiver, assignee, or any other similar representative thereof.
   N.   Political subdivision means any municipality, city, town, village, or
county.
   O.   Primary surface means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway.
When the runway has a specifically prepared hard surface, the primary surface
extends two hundred (200) feet beyond each end of that runway. The width of the
primary surface is set forth in Section
122-628. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   P.   Runway means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length.
   Q.   Structure means any object, including a mobile object, constructed or
installed by man, including but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes,
smokestacks, earth formations, and overhead transmission lines.
   R.   Transitional surfaces means surfaces that extend outward at ninety (90)
degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a
slope of seven (7) feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of
the primary and approaches surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces.
   S.   Tree means any object of natural growth.
   T.   Utility runway means any runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500)
pounds maximum gross weight and less.
   U.   Visual runway means a runway intended solely for the operations of
aircraft using visual approach procedures.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 2, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-628 Airport Zones
In order to carry out the provisions of this division, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the
approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces and conical
surfaces as they apply to the Purcell Municipal Airport. Such zones are shown
on the Purcell Airport Zoning Map, prepared by Barnard Dunkelberg and Company,
and dated June 2001, which is on file in the City Hall. An area located in more
than one (1) of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with
the more restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby
established and defined as follows:
   A.   Utility runway visual approach zone. The inner edge of this approach
zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is two hundred fifty
(250) feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of nine
thousand two hundred fifty (9,250) feet at a horizontal distance of five
thousand (5,000) feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   B.   Transitional zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
   C.   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of
five thousand (5,000) feet radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones.
   D.   Conical zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward there
from a horizontal distance of four thousand (4,000) feet.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 3, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-629 Airport Zone Height Limitations
Except as otherwise provided in this division, no structure shall be erected,
altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone
created by this division to a height in excess of the applicable height limit
established in this division for such zone. Such applicable height limitations
are hereby established for each of the zones in question as follows:
   A.   Utility runway visual approach zone. A utility runway visual approach
zone, slopes twenty (20) feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end
of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a
horizontal distance of five thousand (5,000) feet along the extended runway
centerline.
   B.   Transitional zone. A transitional zone slopes seven (7) feet outward
for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of one
hundred fifty (150) feet above the airport elevation which is one thousand one
hundred fifty (1,150) feet above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing,
there are established height limits sloping seven (7) feet outward for each
foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface, and extending to where they intersect at the conical surface.
   C.   Horizontal zone. A horizontal zone is established at one hundred fifty
(150) feet above the airport elevation.
   D.   Conical zone. A conical zone slopes twenty (20) feet outward for each
foot upward beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one
hundred fifty (150) feet above the airport elevation and extending to a height
of three hundred fifty (350) feet above the airport elevation.
   E.   Expected height limitations. Nothing in this division shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
the growth of any tree to a height of fifty (50) feet above the surface of the
land.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 4, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-630 Use Restrictions
Not with standing any other provisions of this division, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this division in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with
the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 5, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-631 Nonconforming Uses
   A.   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
division shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
change or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations
as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived,
or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing
contained in this division shall require any change in the construction,
alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of
which was begun prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this
section is derived, and is diligently prosecuted.
   B.   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Joint Airport Zoning
Board to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport
the presence of such airport obstructions. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the Purcell Municipal
Airport and the City.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 6, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-632 Permits And Variances
   A.   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in subsections (A)(1), (2)
and (3) of this section, no material change shall be made in the use of the
land, no structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall
be planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been
applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to
permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would
conform to the regulations in this division prescribed in this division. If
such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No
permit for use inconsistent with the provisions of this division shall be
granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance with subsection (D)
of this section.
      1.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any structure or tree less than
seventy-five (75) feet of the vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour, or topographical features, such structure or
tree would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
      2.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of no less than four thousand two hundred (4,200) feet from
each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any structure or tree
less than seventy-five (75) feet of vertical height above the ground, except
when such structures or tree would extend above the height limit prescribed for
such approach zones.
      3.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any
structure or tree less than seventy-five (75) feet of vertical height above the
ground, except when such structure or tree, because of terrain, land contour,
or topographical features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for
such transition zones.
Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as
permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration of any
structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this division except as set forth in Section
122-629(5).
   B.   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction, or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived or any
amendments thereto or than it is when the application for permit is made.
Except as indicated, all applications for such permit shall be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Joint Airport
Zoning Board determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been
abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated,
or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree
to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations.
   D.   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or allow the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this division, may apply to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The application for a variance
shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe and efficient use of navigable airspace.
Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal
application or enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary
hardship and relief granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will
not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be
in accordance with the spirit of this division. Additionally, no application
for variance to the requirements of this division may be considered by the
Board of Adjustment unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the
Airport Zoning Commission for advise as to the aeronautical effect of the
variance. If the Airport Zoning Commission does not respond to the application
within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the Board of Adjustment may act on its
own to grant or deny the application.
   E.   Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this division
and is reasonable in its circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain,
at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed
proper by the Board of Adjustment, this condition may be modified to require
the owner to permit the City, at its own expense, to install, operate, and
maintain the necessary markings and lights.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 7, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-633 Enforcement
It shall be the duty of the Joint Airport Zoning Board to administer and
enforce the regulations prescribed in this division. An application for permits
or variances shall be made to the Airport Zoning Commission on a form published
for that purpose.
Applications required by this division shall be submitted to the chairman,
Airport Zoning Commission, promptly considered and, along with a recommendation
to grant or deny the application, promptly forward to the Joint Airport Zoning
Board for approval or denial thereof.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 8, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-634 Board Of Adjustment
   A.   As required by 3 O.S. § 110, there is hereby created a Board of
Adjustment to have and exercise the following powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Joint Airport Zoning Board, in the enforcement of
this division;
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this division
upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass; and
      3.   To hear and decide specific variances.
   B.   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five (5) members appointed by
the Joint Airport Zoning Board and each shall serve for a term of three (3)
years until a successor is duly appointed and qualified. Members shall be
removable by the appointing authority for cause, upon written charges, after a
public hearing.
   C.   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and in
harmony with the provisions of this division. Meetings of the Board of
Adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as
the Board of Adjustment may determine. The chairman, or in the absence of the
chairman, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be public and
comply with the Open Meetings Act. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes
of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, and
shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which
shall immediately be filed in the office of the board and shall be a public
record.
   D.   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions on law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this division.
   E.   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Joint Airport Zoning Board, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this division,
or to effect variation to this division.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 9, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-635 Appeals
   A.   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
Joint Airport Zoning Board, made in the administration of this division, may
appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
   B.   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the chairman
and the Airport Zoning Commission, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The chairman, Airport Zoning Commission, shall forthwith transmit to
the Board of Adjustment and the Joint Airport Zoning Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in the furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the chairman, Airport Zoning Commission, certifies to the
Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in the opinion of
the chairman, Airport Zoning Commission, cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the
Board of Adjustment or notice to the chairman, Airport Zoning Commission, and
on due cause shown.
   D.   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest,
including the State Aeronautics Commission and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney.
   E.   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
division, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 10, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-636 Judicial Review
As provided in 3 O.S. § 111, any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by
any decision of the Board of Adjustment, and who is of the opinion that the
decision is illegal, may appeal to the district court.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 11, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-637 Penalties
Each violation of this division or of any regulation, orders, or rulings
promulgated by the political subdivision, Joint Airport Zoning Board, Board of
Adjustment, or the State Aeronautics Commission pursuant to this division,
shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for not more than one (1)
year in the County jail, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day a
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate violation. In
addition, the Joint Airport Zoning Board may institute in any court of
competent jurisdiction, an action to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate any
violation of this division, or of any airport zoning regulations adopted under
this division, or of any order or ruling made in connection with their
administration or enforcement, and the court shall adjudge to the plaintiff
such relief, by way of injunction or otherwise, as may be proper under all the
facts and circumstances of the case, in order to fully effectuate the purpose
of this division and of the regulations adopted and orders and rulings made
pursuant thereto.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 12, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-638 Conflicting Regulations
In any case in where a conflict in regulations established by this division
arises, the provisions of 3 O.S. § 100 et seq., the Airport Zoning Act, shall
take precedence.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 13, 9-27-2001)
Sec 122-639 Acquisition Of Air Rights
In any case in which:
   A.   It is desired to remove, lower, or otherwise terminate a nonconforming
structure or use;
   B.   The approach protection necessary cannot, because of constitutional
limitations, be provided under this division; or
   C.   It appears advisable that the necessary approach protection be provided
by acquisition of the property rights rather than by airport zoning
regulations;
the political subdivision within which the property or nonconforming use is
located, or by the City, as owner of the airport may acquire, by purchase,
grant, or condemnation in the manner provided under the law for such public
purposes, such air rights, aviation easements, or other estate or interest in
the property of a nonconforming structure or use in question as may be
necessary to effectuate the purpose of this division.
(Ord. No. 01-A14, § 14, 9-27-2001)
ARTICLE 122-3 (RESERVED)
Editor's note- Article 3 of this chapter has been deleted at the direction of
the City. See §
94-321 et seq. regarding the neighborhood plans program.
CHAPTER 123 RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
   
123-01   Definitions
   
123-02   Business License Requirements
   
123-03   Location Restrictions On Retail Marijuana Establishments
   
123-04   Conditions Of Operation For Retail Marijuana Establishments
   
123-05   Commercial Marijuana Growing Facilities
   
123-06   Wholesale Marijuana Facilities
   
123-07   Marijuana Storage Facilities
   
123-08   Marijuana Growing Facilities For Personal Medical Use
   
123-09   License Inspections And Other Requirements
   
123-10    Marijuana Processing Facilities
Sec 123-01 Definitions
   A.   Retail Marijuana Establishments are defined as any retail marijuana
establishment licensed by the State of Oklahoma.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-07 on 10/1/2018
Amended by Ord. 18-08 on 11/5/2018
Adopted by Ord. 19-02 Medical Marijuana on 2/4/2019
Adopted by Ord. 19-07 Medical Marijuana on 8/6/2019
Adopted by Ord. 20-02 Medical Marijuana on 3/2/2020
Sec 123-02 Business License Requirements
   A.   All operators of Retail Marijuana Establishments are required to obtain
a Retail Marijuana Establishment business license from the City Clerk.
   B.   The Retail Marijuana Establishment License fee shall be Six Hundred
Dollars ($600.00) per year, or as periodically modified by Council resolution.
The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to
licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement of retail marijuana
establishments. The license provided for herein shall run from July 1 to June
30 and the same will not be prorated for any license obtained after July 1 of
any year.
   C.   A Retail Marijuana Establishment License will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside a commercially or
industrially zoned area of the corporate city limits of Purcell, or within a
restricted area as hereinafter set forth.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-07 on 10/1/2018
Amended by Ord. 18-08 on 11/5/2018
Amended by Ord. 19-02 Medical Marijuana on 2/4/2019
Amended by Ord. 19-07 Medical Marijuana on 8/6/2019
Amended by Ord. 20-02 Medical Marijuana on 3/2/2020
Sec 123-03 Location Restrictions On Retail Marijuana Establishments
   A.   A Retail Marijuana Establishment License will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet from any entrance of the proposed permitted location to any
entrance of the following property location, including streets and alleys:
      1.   A private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational or
trade school, college or university;
   B.   In all section referencing places of worship or religious assemblies
the location distance in feet between the place of worship or religious
assembly and a marijuana establishment, regardless of the nature of that
.establishment, shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest door of
the marijuana establishment to the nearest door of the church or religious
assembly. The distance shall remain 750 feet.
   C.   A Retail Marijuana Establishment License will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within seven hundred
fifty (750) feet of any of the following locations with said distance computed
by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest property line of the
parcel of land on which the use is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be
located, including streets and alleys:
      1.   A library or museum;
      2.   A public playground;
      3.   A child care center;
      4.   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center. A public park, pool, or
recreation facility;
   D.   A Retail Marijuana Establishment License will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within two hundred (200)
feet, computed in feet by a direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest door of the retail marijuana establishment to the nearest door of a
residential structure located in a residentially zoned.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-07 on 10/1/2018
Amended by Ord. 18-08 on 11/5/2018
Amended by Ord. 19-02 Medical Marijuana on 2/4/2019
Amended by Ord. 19-07 on 8/6/2019
Amended by Ord. 20-02 Medical Marijuana on 3/2/2020
Sec 123-04 Conditions Of Operation For Retail Marijuana Establishments
   A.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   B.   The retail establishment must collect the applicable sales tax on all
sales as per state and local regulations and must be in an area that is zoned
for commercial or industrial purposes.
   C.   Any violation of this section may result in the revocation of the
Retail Marijuana Establishment License for a period of up to two (2) years from
the date of revocation. Determination of violations that result in revocation
shall be made by the City Manager or his/her designee.
   D.   It is the intent of the City of Purcell that nothing in this Ordinance
be construed to:
      1.   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a public
nuisance;
      2.   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      3.   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-07 on 10/1/2018
Amended by Ord. 18-08 on 11/5/2018
Amended by Ord. 19-02 Medical Marijuana on 2/4/2019
Amended by Ord. 20-02 Medical Marijuana on 3/2/2020
Amended by Ord. 09-07 Medical Marijuana on 1/13/2021
Sec 123-05 Commercial Marijuana Growing Facilities
   A.   Commercial Marijuana Growing Facilities are hereby allowed within the
corporate limits of Purcell, Oklahoma under the following conditions:
   B.   The facility must acquire a business license from the City Clerk. The
license for a commercial growing facility shall be One Thousand Five Hundred
Dollars ($1,500.00) per year, or other amount as set periodically by Council
resolution. This fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs
related to licensing, inspection, and enforcement of regulations for Commercial
Marijuana Growing Facilities. The license provide for herein shall run from
July 1 to June 30 and the same will not be prorated for any license obtained
after July 1 of any year.
   C.   Location Restrictions on Commercial Marijuana Growing Facilities
      1.   A Commercial Marijuana Growing Facilities License will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location would be located within
one thousand (1,000) feet from any entrance of the proposed permitted location
to any entrance of the following property location, including streets and
alleys:
         a.   A private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational
or trade school, college or university;
      2.   In all section referencing places of worship or religious assemblies
the location distance in feet between the place of worship or religious
assembly and a marijuana establishment, regardless of the nature of that
establishment, shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest door of
the marijuana establishment to the nearest door of the church or religious
assembly. The distance shall remain 750 feet.
      3.   A Commercial Marijuana Growing Facilities License will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location would be located within
seven hundred fifty (750) feet of any of the following locations with said
distance computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest
property line of the parcel of land on which the use is located to the nearest
property line of the building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana
establishment would be located, including streets and alleys:
         a.   A library or museum;
         b.   A public playground;
         c.   A child care center;
         d.   A public park, pool, or recreation facility;
         e.   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      4.   A Commercial Marijuana Growing Facilities License will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location would be located within
two hundred (200) feet of any of the following locations with said distance
computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest property
line of the parcel of land on which the use is located to the nearest property
line of the building or unit in which the proposed commercial marijuana growing
facility would be located, including streets and alleys:
         a.   A residentially zoned district; or
         b.   Another medical marijuana or retail marijuana establishment.
   D.   The location of the facility must be zoned industrial and shall be an
enclosed structure.
   E.   The facility shall have a chain link security fence at least six (6)
foot in height with three (3) strand barbed wire at the top and with limited
access. The gates to the secure area must be locked at all times.
   F.   The facility must be constructed in such a manner that the growing of
the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from a public right of way.
   G.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with municipal building and fire codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems.
   H.   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes a
public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing marijuana
produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is detrimental to
public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of
life and property.
   I.   Any violation of this section may result in the revocation of the
Commercial Marijuana Growing Facilities License for a period of up to two (2)
years from the date of revocation. Determination of violations that result in
revocation shall be made by the City Manager or his/her designee.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-07 on 10/1/2018
Amended by Ord. 18-08 on 11/5/2018
Amended by Ord. 19-02 Medical Marijuana on 2/4/2019
Amended by Ord. 19-07 Medical Marijuana on 8/6/2019
Amended by Ord. 20-02 Medical Marijuana on 3/2/2020
Amended by Ord. 21-07 on 9/7/2021
Sec 123-06 Wholesale Marijuana Facilities
   A.   Wholesale Marijuana Facilities are allowed in the City of Purcell but
must acquire a city business license from the City Clerk. The fee shall be One
Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) per year, or other amount as set
periodically by Council resolution. This fee shall be used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration, and
enforcement of regulations for wholesale Marijuana Facilities. The license
provide for herein shall run from July 1 to June 30 and the same will not be
prorated for any license obtained after July 1 of any year.
   B.   A Wholesale Marijuana Growing Facilities License will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location is located outside a commercially or
industrially zoned area of the corporate city limits of Purcell.
   C.   Location Restrictions on Wholesale Marijuana Facilities
      1.   A Wholesale Marijuana Growing Facilities License will not be granted
to any applicant where the proposed location would be located within one
thousand (1,000) feet from any entrance of the proposed permitted location to
any entrance of the following property location, including streets and alleys:
         a.   A private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational
or trade school, college or university;
      2.   In all section referencing places of worship or religious assemblies
the location distance in feet between the place of worship or religious
assembly and a marijuana establishment, regardless of the nature of that
establishment, shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest door of
the marijuana establishment to the nearest door of the church or religious
assembly. The distance shall remain 750 feet.
      3.   A Wholesale Marijuana Facilities License will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within seven hundred
fifty (750) feet of any of the following locations with said distance computed
by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest property line of the
parcel of land on which the use is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be
located, including streets and alleys:
         a.   A library or museum;
         b.   A public playground;
         c.   A child care center;
         d.   A public park, pool, or recreation facility;
         e.   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      4.   A Wholesale Marijuana Growing Facilities License will not be granted
to any applicant where the proposed location would be located within two
hundred (200) feet of any of the following locations with said distance
computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest property
line of the parcel of land on which the use is located to the nearest property
line of the building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana
establishment would be located, including streets and alleys:
         a.   A residentially zoned district; or
         b.   Another medical marijuana or retail marijuana establishment.
   D.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   E.   The wholesale establishment must collect the applicable sales tax on
all sales.
   F.   Any violation of this section may result in the revocation of the
Wholesale Marijuana Facilities License for a period of up to two (2) years from
the date of revocation. Determination of violations that result in revocation
shall be made by the City Manager or his/her designee.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-07 on 10/1/2018
Amended by Ord. 18-08 on 11/5/2018
Amended by Ord. 19-02 Medical Marijuana on 2/4/2019
Amended by Ord. 19-07 Medical Marijuana on 8/6/2019
Amended by Ord. 20-02 Medical Marijuana on 3/2/2020
Sec 123-07 Marijuana Storage Facilities
   A.   Marijuana Storage Facilities, other than in a retail outlet and
Wholesale Facilities and Commercial Facilities, are hereby allowed within the
corporate limits of Purcell, Oklahoma, and must acquire a business license from
the City Clerk. There shall be a fee of Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars
($2,500.00) per year, or other amount as set periodically by Council
resolution. This fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs
related to licensing, inspection, administration, and enforcement of
regulations for Marijuana Storage Facilities.
   B.   Marijuana Storage Facilities License will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside a commercially zoned
area of the corporate city limits of Purcell.
   C.   Location Restrictions on Marijuana Storage Facilities
      1.   A Marijuana Storage Facilities License will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet from any entrance of the proposed permitted location to any
entrance of the following property location, including streets and alleys:
         a.   A private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational
or trade school, college or university;
      2.   In all section referencing places of worship or religious assemblies
the location distance in feet between the place of worship or religious
assembly and a marijuana establishment, regardless of the nature of that
establishment, shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest door of
the marijuana establishment to the nearest door of the church or religious
assembly. The distance shall remain 750 feet.
      3.   A Marijuana Storage Facilities License will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within seven hundred
fifty (750) feet of any of the following locations with said distance computed
by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest property line of the
parcel of land on which the use is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be
located, including streets and alleys:
         a.   A library or museum;
         b.   A public playground;
         c.   A child care center;
         d.   A public park, pool, or recreation facility;
         e.   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      4.   A Marijuana Storage Facilities License will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within two hundred (200)
feet of any of the following locations with said distance computed by direct
measurement in a straight line from the nearest property line of the parcel of
land on which the use is located to the nearest property line of the building
or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located,
including streets and alleys:
         a.   A residentially zoned district; or
         b.   Another medical marijuana or retail marijuana establishment.
   D.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilator/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off premises.
   E.   Storage facilities must remain locked at all times when not in
operation. The facility must have an electronic security system and have an
appropriate chain link security fence that must be at least six (6) foot tall
with three (3) strands of barbed wire at the top around the facility.
   F.   The storage facility must collect the applicable sales tax on all
sales.
   G.   Any violation of this section may result in the revocation of the
Marijuana Storage Facilities License for a period of up to two (2) years from
the date of revocation. Determination of violations that result in revocation
shall be made by the City Manager or his designee.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-07 on 10/1/2018
Amended by Ord. 18-08 on 11/5/2018
Amended by Ord. 19-02 Medical Marijuana on 2/4/2019
Amended by Ord. 19-07 Medical Marijuana on 8/6/2019
Amended by Ord. 20-02 Medical Marijuana on 3/2/2020
Sec 123-08 Marijuana Growing Facilities For Personal Medical Use
   A.   All owners of Marijuana Growing Facilities for Personal Medical Use are
required to obtain a license from the State of Oklahoma and from the City
Clerk.
   B.   Marijuana Growing Facilities for Personal Medical Use License fee shall
be Fifty Dollars ($50.00) per year, or other amount as set periodically by
Council resolution. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering
costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement of
Marijuana Growing Facilities for Personal Medical Use. The fee shall run from
July to June 30 and there shall be no proration of this fee.
   C.   All Marijuana Growing Facilities for Personal Medical Use shall be
subject to security provisions as stated herein prior to the granting of a
permit. Failure to comply with security provisions as stated herein will result
in revocation of the permit.
   D.   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for marijuana
cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key or
equivalent, at all times except when the residential facility is actively being
supervised in person by the permit holder.
   E.   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to the
interior of a single private residence.
   F.   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right of way.
   G.   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing or electrical
components used shall comply with municipal building and fire codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold or
other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed 1,000 watts per light. The
use of gas products (CO2, butane, etc.) or CO2 and ozone generators in the
growing area is prohibited.
   H.   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes a
public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing marijuana
produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is detrimental to
public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of
life and property.
   I.   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is grown
shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning cooking,
eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress and
egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation will
impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or sanitation/
bathing.
   J.   If the residence is rented, consent of the property owner shall be
obtained prior to any cultivation commencing. This consent must be evidenced by
a signed and notarized statement from the property owner permitting the growth
of marijuana in the residence.
   K.   Cultivated marijuana must be used exclusively pursuant to a valid state
issued medical marijuana license. Any other or unapproved usage shall result in
revocation of the license.
   L.   Any violations of this section may result in the revocation of the
Marijuana Growing Facilities for Personal Medical Use License for a period of
up to two (2) years from the date of revocation. Determination of violations
that result in revocation shall be made by the City Manager or his designee.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-07 on 10/1/2018
Amended by Ord. 18-08 on 11/5/2018
Amended by Ord. 19-02 Medical Marijuana on 2/4/2019
Amended by Ord. 19-07 Medical Marijuana on 8/6/2019
Amended by Ord. 20-02 Medical Marijuana on 3/2/2020
Sec 123-09 License Inspections And Other Requirements
   A.   All license outlined in this ordinance will be subject to inspection of
the facilities by an authorized municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   B.   The inspection prior to a license decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the municipal inspector.
   C.   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   D.   The smell or noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
marijuana by a person possessing a valid state issued medical marijuana license
shall be treated as a public nuisance.
   E.   Other regulations. Smoking or using marijuana shall be prohibited on
all city property including vehicles, buildings, parks or other facilities.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-07 on 10/1/2018
Amended by Ord. 18-08 on 11/5/2018
Amended by Ord. 19-02 Medical Marijuana on 2/4/2019
Amended by Ord. 19-07 Medical Marijuana on 8/6/2019
Amended by Ord. 20-02 Medical Marijuana on 3/2/2020
Sec 123-10 Marijuana Processing Facilities
   A.   Marijuana processing facilities are allowed in the City of Purcell but
must acquire a city business license from the City Clerk. The fee shall be
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per year, or other amount as set
periodically by Council resolution. This fee shall be used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration, and
enforcement of regulations for marijuana processing facilities. The license
provide for herein shall run from July 1 to June 30 and the same will not be
prorated for any license obtained after July 1 of any year.
   B.   Marijuana processing facility license zoning requirements:
      1.   Qualified zones:
         a.   Industrial (I-1), subject to restrictions identified in
subsection C. below.
      2.   Prohibited zones:
         a.   Marijuana processing facilities are prohibited in all remaining
City of Purcell zoning districts as defined in Sec
122-20 of the Municipal Code, unless the facility meets a qualified exemption
identified in subsection B.3.
      3.   Prohibited zones with exceptions:
         a.   Proposed processing facilities lying within Commercial (C-1, C-2,
C-3) zones shall be allowed upon meeting one of the following exemptions:
            i.   Water only extraction processing.
            ii.   Processing methods that do not involve chemicals or a
chemical extraction process, including but not limited to the preparation and
packaging of pre-rolls and the baking, cooking, or preparing of marijuana
edible products.
         b.   Exempt processing facilities lying within a Commercial Zone are
not prohibited from having a relationship with a marijuana retail
establishment.
      4.   Chemical processing facilities are prohibited in all Commercial
Zones unless otherwise exempt.
   C.   Location restrictions on marijuana processing facilities.
      1.   A marijuana processing facility license will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet from any entrance of the proposed permitted location to any
entrance of the following property location, including streets and alleys:
         a.   Private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational or
trade school, college or university;
      2.   In all sections referencing places of worship or religious
assemblies the location distance in feet between the place of worship or
religious assembly and a marijuana processing facility, regardless of the
nature of said establishment, shall be measured in a straight line from the
nearest door of the marijuana processing facility to the nearest door of the
church or religious assembly. The distance shall remain seven hundred fifty
(750) feet.
      3.   A marijuana processing facility license will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within seven hundred
fifty (750) feet of any of the following locations with said distance computed
by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest property line of the
parcel of land on which the use is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be
located, including streets and alleys:
         a.   A library or museum;
         b.   A public playground;
         c.   A child care center;
         d.   A public park, pool, or recreation facility;
         e.   A juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      4.   A marijuana processing facility license will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within two hundred (200)
feet of any of the following locations with said distance computed by direct
measurement in a straight line from the nearest property line of the parcel of
land on which the use is located to the nearest property line of the building
or unit in which the proposed marijuana processing facility would be located,
including streets and alleys:
         a.   A residentially zoned district.
   D.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   E.   Marijuana processing facilities must collect the applicable sales tax
on all sales.
   F.   Any violation of this section may result in the revocation of the
marijuana processing facility license for a period of up to two (2) years from
the date of revocation. Determination of violations that result in revocation
shall be made by the City Manager or his/her designee.
HISTORY
Added by Ord. 21-03 on 3/3/2021
Amended by Ord. 21-04 on 4/5/2021
Amended by Ord. 22-06 on 7/5/2022
 
