TOWN OF QUAPAW, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. # 22-01, passed 3-8-2022
 
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
DIRECTORY OF TOWN OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN OF QUAPAW, OKLAHOMA
(2022)
MAYOR
Floyd (Bud) Dunning
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
Michaela (Mickey) Johnson Ward 1
Charley Daniels           Ward 2
Harold (Brov) Cawyer      Ward 3
Floyd (Bud) Dunning       Ward 4
Dallas Wall               Ward 5
 
CLERK/TREASURER
Lacey Richardson
OFFICIALS
 
Fire Chief                      Will Langley
Water Sewer Superintendent      Jim Brittle
Street and Alley Superintendent Chaz Stanley
Town Attorney                   Scott Edwards
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CORPORATE AND WARD BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Jurisdiction
   
10.04   Interpretation
   
10.05   State law adopted
   
10.06   Application to future ordinances
   
10.07   Catchlines and citations
   
10.08   Definitions
   
10.09   Rules of interpretation
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Code alterations
   
10.12   Reference to statutes
   
10.13   Reference to other sections
   
10.14   Reference to offices
   
10.15   Errors and omissions
   
10.16   Official time
   
10.17   Reasonable time
   
10.18   Ordinances repealed
   
10.19   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.20   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.21   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.22   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.23   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   City ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
   General powers, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this town code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of the Town of Quapaw,
Oklahoma. This town code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the “Quapaw
Town Code” and is hereby published by the authority of the Board of Trustees,
and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the
town as provided in §
10.06 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, to its
appropriate chapter and title heading and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal document.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
the state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except
for the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.19(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 JURISDICTION.
   All ordinances of the town now in effect within the town are hereby extended
to all real property belonging to or under the control of the town outside of
the corporate limits of the town and shall be in full effect therein insofar as
they are applicable. All ordinances of the town which shall go into effect in
the future shall also apply to and be in full effect within the boundaries of
all outlying real property insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in any
ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited to
the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to mean and include also the
outlying real property belonging to or under the control of the town, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4)
§ 10.04 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Same rules as state law. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law
or implication required, the same rules of construction, definition and
application shall govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the
interpretation of state law.
   (B)   General interpretation.
      (1)   Liberal construction. All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and the Town Board of Trustees may be
fully carried out.
      (2)   Minimum requirements. In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.05 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   Statutes duly adopted by the state which are not otherwise in conflict with
the charter and ordinances of the town but which in fact add to the police
power of the town are hereby adopted and may be prosecuted in the Town
Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) (Ord. 09-02, passed 6-9-2009)
§ 10.06 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances
which amend, repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or division or
any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
      (2)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language: “Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees
of the Town of Quapaw, Oklahoma, that Section _____ of the code of ordinances
of the Town of Quapaw, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as follows:” (Set
out new provisions in full).
      (3)   When the Board of Trustees desires to enact an ordinance of a
general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code
which the Board desires to incorporate into the code, a section in
substantially the following language may be made part of the ordinance:
“Section _____. Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Quapaw,
Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part
of the code of ordinances of the Town of Quapaw, Oklahoma, and the sections of
this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish this intention.”
      (4)   All sections, chapters, titles or provisions of this code desired
to be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as
the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.07 CATCHLINES AND CITATIONS.
   The catchlines of sections in this code printed in capital letters and the
citations included at the ends of sections are intended to indicate the
contents of a section and the historical source, respectively, and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles and official sources of such sections, nor as any
part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines or citations, are amended or
reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 10.08 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred,
either expressly or by implication.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES or TOWN BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Town of
Quapaw, Oklahoma.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The town code of the Town of
Quapaw, Oklahoma.
      COUNTY. The County of Ottawa, Oklahoma.
      FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year shall begin July 1 and end June 30 of the
following year.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the town and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission
of any act required by the provisions of this code.
      OFFICERS or EMPLOYEES. Whenever any officer or employee is referred to by
title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of
the Town of Quapaw.”
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
      OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
      O.S. The Oklahoma Statutes, as amended.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or a part of
such building or land.
      PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to an actual person or any persons,
to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and
corporate or to the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly applies.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Shall include real and personal property.
      RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Shall include a mark when the person cannot
write.
      STATE, THE STATE or THIS STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
      STREET. Shall include any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane,
viaduct, highway, court, place, square, curb or any other public way in the
town which is dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
which sets apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      TOWN, THE TOWN or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Quapaw, County of Ottawa,
State of Oklahoma.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WHOLESALER or WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
      WRITTEN or IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the
proper handwriting of such person, or in cases where such person is unable to
write, by such person’s proper mark.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.09 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   Ordinance. The word “ordinance” as contained in the ordinances of the
town has been changed in the content of this town code to “title,” “chapter,”
“subchapter” or “section,” or to words of like import, for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such a change to town ordinances is not meant to
amend the passage or effective dates of such original ordinances.
   (B)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or to perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or
section specify otherwise.
   (C)   Joint authority. All words giving joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   (D)   “Or” or “And.” If the sense requires it, then “or” may be read “and”
and “and” may be read “or.”
   (E)   Gender. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied
to other genders, and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well.
   (F)   Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   (G)   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   (H)   General term following specific. A general term following a specific
enumeration of terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless
expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this town
code or any part hereof, any portion adopted by reference or any code or
portion of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional,
invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, then such
decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining
portions of this code or any part hereof, any portion adopted by reference or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The Board of Trustees hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, division, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase hereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
divisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 10.11 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions
any part or portion of this code, to insert or delete pages or portions hereof
or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the town to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.12 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   A reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now
or as they may be amended, and a reference to the state statutes for a certain
year also means the comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10.13 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section a reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.14 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.15 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected or the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.16 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.17 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   Reasonableness defined. In all cases where an ordinance requires an
act to be done in a reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given,
REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary
for a prompt performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall be counted in
computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
not be counted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed prior to and in effect at the time this code is adopted but which are
not included in this code are hereby repealed as of the time when this code
goes into effect. Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed
or amended by the adoption of this code.
§ 10.19 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   Exceptions to general repeal.
      (1)   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of
this town code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this town
code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal, subject to
the saving clauses contained in this chapter, and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
         (a)   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by the
town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or any evidence of
the town’s indebtedness;
         (b)   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for town officers;
         (c)   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
         (d)   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special
rights to persons or corporations;
         (e)   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of
a contract or the issuance of warrants or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust;
         (f)   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places;
         (g)   Improvement ordinances;
         (h)   Bond ordinances;
         (i)   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate
by or from the town;
         (j)   Ordinances relating to elections; and
         (k)   All special ordinances.
      (2)   All such ordinances in division (A)(1) above shall continue in full
force and effect to the same extent as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
   (B)   Public ways and public utility ordinances. No ordinance relating to
railroad crossings with streets and other public ways or relating to the
conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall be repealed by
virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of §
10.18 of this chapter, except as this town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.20 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.21 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Effect of repeal of ordinances.
      (1)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
      (2)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or
penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or
proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the
ordinance repealed.
   (B)   Extends to all repeals. This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in an ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Current pending actions. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions, nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the effective date hereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 10.22 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, then the chapter or section shall be specifically
repealed and a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment shall be
substituted in its place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance of the Board
of Trustees, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.23 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance or ordinances and any and all amendments is
listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-
1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-
1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, then this
indicates that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the
statute. Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, then this indicates that the reader should
refer to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the prior code section number
shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, § 50.01).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Penalty imposed. Except as otherwise provided by state law,
whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the town an act is prohibited or
is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in
this code or ordinances the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding the legal maximum amount
as established from time to time by state laws for a court not of record in the
state. Each day or any portion of a day during which a violation of this code
or any ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Aiding or abetting a violation. Any person who shall aid, abet or
assist in the violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Fines recoverable by civil action. All fines shall be recoverable by
civil action before any court of competent jurisdiction in addition to any
other method provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   Application of provisions.
      (1)   Application of penalty. The penalty provided in this section shall
be applicable to every section of this town code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section.
      (2)   Acts punishable under different sections. In all cases where the
same offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections
of this town code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed,
but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the
same offense, provided that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Breach of provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or the omission
to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this town
code and there is no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this section shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
   (D)   Liability of officers. No provision of this town code designating the
duties of any officer or employee shall be construed so as to make such officer
or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform
such duty, unless the intention of the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or
penalty on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in
the section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
(Ord. 10-02, passed - -)
CHAPTER 11: CORPORATE AND WARD BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Official town map
   
11.02   Ward boundaries
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL TOWN MAP.
   The map of the town showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all
annexations made to the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 11.02 WARD BOUNDARIES.
   The town is divided into five wards as follows.
   (A)   Ward One.
      (1)   Begins at 3rd Street and Main Street north along North 69A to
Jackson Street, then south to 1st Street, then east to Whitebird Street, then
south to Whitebird Street and 3rd Street, then west to 3rd Street and Main
Street (beginning point);
      (2)   Includes Peoria Housing on East 4th Street to Seneca Street, then
north point of Peoria Housing, then east to Cayuga Street, then south to Cayuga
Street and East 4th Street, then west on East 4th Street to East 4th Street and
Seneca Street (beginning point); and
      (3)   Also includes all UmiCore Products area: go on East 4th Street then
to east side of Lagoon area, then north on a line to South 610 Road to East 30
Road, then to east property line of UmiCore, then to north property line of
UmiCore, then east to South 630 Road, then south on 630 Road to East 30 Road
(beginning point).
   (B)   Ward Two. Begins at 3rd Street and Kentucky Street, then to 3rd Street
and Whitebird Street, then south to 8th Street and Whitebird Street, then east
to 8th Street and Main Street, then north to 4th Street and Main Street, then
west to 4th Street and Kentucky Street, then north to 3rd Street and Kentucky
Street (beginning point).
   (C)   Ward Three. Begins at 5th Street and Main Street, then west to 5th
Street and Kentucky Street, then south to 6th Street and Kentucky Street, then
east to 6th Street and Main Street, then south to west side of 8th Street and
Main Street, then on east side of 8th Street and Main Street southward to south
town limits (Main Street and Morgan Street, then east to Morgan Street and
Clyma Street, then north along Clyma Street to East 50 Road (Future Farmer
Road), then east to East 50 Road and South 620 Road, then south to South 620
Road and Bluestem Drive, to include all of Bluestem Park, north to South 620
Road and East 50 Road, then west on East 50 Road (Future Farmer Road) and
Whitebird Street, then north to 8th Street and Whitebird Street, then west to
8th and Main Street).
   (D)   Ward Four. Begins on 4th Street and Main Street, then west to 4th
Street and Cherry Street, then north to 3rd Street and Cherry Street, then west
to 3rd Street and Maple Street, then south to Maple Street and 6th Street, then
east to 6th Street and Kentucky Street, then north to Kentucky Street and 5th
Street, then east to 5th Street and Main Street, then north to Main Street and
4th Street (beginning point).
   (E)   Ward Five. Begins on 4th Street and Maple Street, then north to Maple
Street and 3rd Street, then east to Cherry Street and 3rd Street, then south to
Cherry Street and 4th Street, then east to Kentucky Street and 4th Street, then
north to Kentucky Street and 3rd Street, then east to 3rd Street and Main
Street, then north on Main Street extending on McDonald Drive to north town
limits, then west to the Burlington Northern Railroad, then southwesterly
following the Burlington Northern bed to the west town limits to West 6th
Street, then east to Maple Street and 6th Street, then north to Maple Street
and 4th Street (beginning point).
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 12-01, passed 7-10-2012)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   TAXES
      
35.   GENERAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN GOVERNING BODY
Section
   
30.01   Board of Trustees, general powers
   
30.02   Board of Trustees, election and terms
   
30.03   Mayor, election and duties
   
30.04   Meetings of the Board of Trustees
   
30.05   Attendance at meetings by elected officials
   
30.06   Rules of order for meetings
   
30.07   Rules of procedure for meetings
   
30.08   Trustees designated to perform supervisory duties
§ 30.01 BOARD OF TRUSTEES, GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   Form of government. Pursuant to the provisions of 11 O.S. § 12-101,
the town shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises
and immunities granted, or which may be granted, to towns governed by the
statutory town board of trustees-form of government. These powers shall be
exercised as provided by law applicable to towns under the board of trustees-
form of government or, if the manner is not prescribed, in such manner as the
Board of Trustees may prescribe.
   (B)   Powers vested in the Town Board. The powers, rights and authorities of
the town, including the determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in
and exercised by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.02 BOARD OF TRUSTEES, ELECTION AND TERMS.
   (A)   Composition; election. The Board of Trustees shall consist of five
members, who shall be nominated and elected at large without regard to their
place of residence within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Terms of office. The term of office for a Trustee shall be for four
years, beginning at 12:00 p.m. on the second Monday following the general
municipal election. A Trustee shall serve until his or her successor is elected
and qualified.
      (1)   The terms of the Trustees shall be staggered so that at one general
municipal election, the following officers are elected for four-year terms:
         (a)   Trustee one;
         (b)   Trustee three;
         (c)   Trustee five; and
         (d)   Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   At the next general municipal election, the following officers are
to be elected for four-year terms:
         (a)   Trustee two; and
         (b)   Trustee four.
   (C)   Resolution calling for election; filing by candidates.
      (1)   A resolution of the Board of Trustees calling for a general or
special election to fill the office of Trustee shall state the number of four-
year terms and the number of unexpired terms, if any, to be filled. The
resolution shall direct that the ballot shall state the number of offices of
Trustee to be filled for each term and that the voters shall vote for the
number to be filled.
      (2)   Candidates for the office of Trustee shall file for a specific
term, which shall be designated on the declaration of candidacy. Candidates
receiving the largest pluralities for each designated term shall be elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 30.03 MAYOR, ELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Selection from Board members. The Board of Trustees shall elect from
among its members a Mayor. The Mayor shall be elected in each odd-numbered year
at the first Board of Trustees meeting held after Trustee terms begin or as
soon thereafter as practicable. The Mayor shall serve until his or her
successor has been elected and qualified.
   (B)   Duties of Mayor. The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and
shall certify to the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions
passed by it. He or she shall be recognized as the head of the town government
for all ceremonial purposes and shall have such other powers, duties and
functions as may be prescribed by law or ordinance. The Mayor shall have all of
the powers, rights, duties and responsibilities of a Trustee, including the
right to vote on questions.
   (C)   Absence or vacancy. During an absence, disability or suspension of the
Mayor, the Board shall elect from among its members an Acting Mayor. When a
vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor, the Board shall elect another Mayor
from among its members to serve for the duration of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 30.04 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Time and manner of holding meetings.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall meet regularly at Town Hall on the
second Tuesday of each month at 6:00 p.m. and at such other times as it may
prescribe by ordinance, resolution or otherwise.
      (2)   Where the day for a meeting falls upon a day which is a legal
holiday in the state, the meeting shall be held on the next Tuesday which is
not a holiday.
      (3)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any three Trustees.
   (B)   Quorum. A majority of all of the members of the Board shall constitute
a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day.
   (C)   Location. Every meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held in Town
Hall, unless the Mayor designates another place in the town for the holding of
a special meeting in the case of an emergency. Any adjourned meeting may be
held at any other place within the town designated by the Board.
   (D)   Open meetings. Meetings of the Town Board shall be open to the public
pursuant to 25 O.S. §§ 301 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4) (Ord. 00-02, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 30.05 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS BY ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   All elected officials of the town, including the Trustees and the Clerk-
Treasurer, shall be present at all meetings of the Town Board of Trustees in
order to transact the business of the town. If any Trustee shall be absent from
more than one-half of the special or regular Trustee meetings held during a
period of four consecutive months, then he or she shall thereupon cease to hold
office as a Trustee.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-7)
§ 30.06 RULES OF ORDER FOR MEETINGS.
   (A)   Determination of rules; compelling attendance. The Board may determine
its own rules and may compel the attendance of absent members in the manner and
under penalties as the Board may prescribe.
   (B)   Order of business posted on agenda. The order of business for each
meeting of the Board may be as posted on the agenda for the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 30.07 RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR MEETINGS.
   The following rules of procedure shall apply to any regular or special
meeting of the Board, unless three Trustees agree to waive such rule or rules.
   (A)   At the request of the Mayor or any Board member, all motions shall be
reduced to writing by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the Board shall not
be entertained unless it be made by a member who previously voted in the
majority.
   (C)   No motion shall be debated or put until it be seconded and stated by
the Mayor. It is then, and not until then, in possession of the Board and
unable to be withdrawn but by leave of the Board.
   (D)   (1)   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as
follows:
         (a)   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
         (b)   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
         (c)   When the previous question has been ordered; or
         (d)   While a vote is being taken.
      (2)   A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which the
meeting is adjourned.
   (E)   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but:
      (1)   To adjourn;
      (2)   To lay on the table;
      (3)   For the previous question;
      (4)   To postpone to a day certain;
      (5)   To commit;
      (6)   To amend; or
      (7)   To postpone indefinitely.
   (F)   Several motions shall have precedence in the order in which they stand
arranged.
   (G)   When a proper motion is made but information is wanted, the motion is
to postpone to a day certain.
   (H)   (1)   With a matter claiming present attention for which it is desired
to reserve for a more suitable occasion, the order is a motion to lay on the
table; the matter may then be called for at any time.
      (2)   If the proposition may need further consideration at the hands of a
committee, then the motion is to refer to a committee, but if it needs but a
few and simple amendments, then the Board shall proceed to consider and amend
at once.
   (I)   On an amendment’s being moved, a member who has spoken on the main
question may speak again to the amendment.
   (J)   The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the
negative side. After the affirmative part of the question has been put, any
member who has not spoken before to the question may arise and speak before the
negative be put.
   (K)   When a question has been moved and seconded and has been put by the
presiding officer in the affirmative and negative, it cannot be debated unless
under motion for reconsideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 30.08 TRUSTEES DESIGNATED TO PERFORM SUPERVISORY DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees may designate various ones of its members or a
committee of its members to have supervision of various personnel and
activities of the town, such as streets, the water system and so on, and may
give each such Trustee or committee designated an appropriate title. Each such
Trustee or committee so designated shall be subordinate to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Clerk-Treasurer, duties
   
31.02   Office Manager
   
31.03   Town Attorney
   
31.04   Health Officer
   
31.05   Appointments and removals
   
31.06   Serving until successor qualifies
   
31.07   Emergency personnel appointments
   
31.08   Bond and oath of office
   
31.09   Salary and compensation
   
31.10   Social Security
§ 31.01 CLERK-TREASURER, DUTIES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this code, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      CLERK or TREASURER. Used in this code or in other ordinances of the town,
shall be deemed to mean the Town Clerk-Treasurer or the Deputy Town Clerk-
Treasurer, unless another meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-4)
   (B)   Election; term. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is an elected official of the
town, elected for a four- year term.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-1)
   (C)   Duties as Clerk. As Clerk, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the Board;
      (2)   Enroll in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the Board;
      (3)   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be provided
by law or ordinance, and have custody of the town seal;
      (4)   Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents as required by
law or ordinance; and
      (5)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed
by law or ordinance or by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-2)
   (D)   Duties as Treasurer; examination of books.
      (1)   Duties. As Treasurer, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall:
         (a)   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source
all monies paid to him or her have been derived and to whom and when any monies
have been paid; and
         (b)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance.
      (2)   Books and accounts examined. The Clerk-Treasurer’s books and
accounts shall at all times be subject to examination by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-3)
   (E)   Fiscal Administrator duties. The Clerk-Treasurer shall also serve as
Fiscal Administrator unless another person is appointed by the Board of
Trustees. The Fiscal Administrator shall have such duties and salary as set by
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-5)
§ 31.02 OFFICE MANAGER.
   The Office Manager shall:
   (A)   Direct and supervise all office procedures for the town, giving
directions to the Deputy Clerk- Treasurer and any other office employees as
employed by the town as office employees as to following duties;
   (B)   Answer the telephone in a professional manner, taking messages and
directing such to affected personnel as required to ensure the service required
is handled correctly;
   (C)   Accept payments for monthly water and sewer billings, as paid, and
accept court fines from previous court actions, as paid;
   (D)   Deposit the daily funds received for the town in designated
depositories set up for the collections set out in division (C) above;
   (E)   Set times for getting proper meter readings for the monthly billing of
water and sewer billings and prepare meter reading reports;
   (F)   Record said readings and prepare reports required for the monthly
billings, prebillings and billing report;
   (G)   Prepare records for establishing the assessment of late fees on
payments which are not made as prescribed by the procedures as set forth;
   (H)   Prepare records for shutoff notices of citizens who have not made
their monthly billing payment by the shutoff date as prescribed by the
procedures set forth;
   (I)   Process the payment of purchase orders as prepared by the Deputy
Clerk-Treasurer in a timely manner so as to avoid excess expenses in having to
pay late fees or service charges;
   (J)   Maintain control and purchase of office supplies as needed for the
operation of daily office functions, securing best pricing to control expenses;
   (K)   Prepare agendas as required for regular and special meetings, advising
all Board members of said meetings;
   (L)   Prepare the journal and minutes of set meetings for review by the
Board or for public viewing; and
   (M)   Prepare and process payroll checks for all employees with approved
time records by town supervisors.
(Ord. 10-04, passed - -)
§ 31.03 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment. The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Attorney or may
secure the services of an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when
needed.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Town Attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the legal
adviser of the Board and all officers, departments and agencies of the town
government in matters relating to their official powers and duties.
      (2)   He or she shall represent the town in proceedings in the courts.
      (3)   He or she shall perform all services incident to his or her
position which may be required by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7B-1)
§ 31.04 HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Health Officer.
   (B)   County or state performing duties. The County Health Officer or any
qualified personnel of the State Department of Health may perform the duties
and functions of a Town Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-1)
§ 31.05 APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   (A)   Authority of Board. The Board of Trustees may appoint such officers
and employees, other than the Clerk-Treasurer and Health Officer, as it deems
desirable and determine their compensation by motion or resolution, and may
demote, suspend, lay off or remove all such personnel in compliance with due
process and other requirements of law.
   (B)   Right to appeal; hearing; Board decision.
      (1)   Employees or officers on probationary status may be laid off,
suspended without pay, demoted or removed at any time without the written
statement, hearings and procedures required in this section.
      (2)   An employee or officer who, after a probationary period as set by
the Town Board, is laid off, suspended without pay for more than ten days,
demoted or removed may appeal in writing to the Town Board. The appeal must be
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer for transmittal to the Board within ten
days after receipt of notice of the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal. As
soon as is practicable thereafter, the Board shall conduct a hearing on the
appeal or give an adequate opportunity therefor, and shall report in writing
its findings and recommendations and make its final decision in writing
regarding the appellant’s layoff, suspension, demotion or removal.
      (3)   If the Board finds that the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal
was incorrect, then it shall veto the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal
and order the reinstatement of the employee or officer.
      (4)   Any proceedings of the Board shall be subject to open meeting laws
and to applicable exceptions provided for executive sessions.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.06 SERVING UNTIL SUCCESSOR QUALIFIES.
   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term shall continue
to serve thereafter until his or her successor is elected or appointed and
qualifies, unless his or her services are sooner terminated by resignation,
disqualification, removal, death, abolition of the office or other legal
manner.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
§ 31.07 EMERGENCY PERSONNEL APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      EMERGENCY. An unexpected or unforeseen contingency or catastrophic event
affecting the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Powers of governing body. The Mayor may, in an emergency situation,
appoint such officers and employees as he or she may deem necessary to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town during the existence
of the emergency, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees, as soon as
a special meeting or regular meeting can reasonably be called or held therefor.
The Board of Trustees may determine the compensation of such emergency
employees by motion or resolution and may direct the demotion, layoff or
removal of such personnel at the conclusion of such emergency.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-6)
§ 31.08 BOND AND OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Bonds of officers.
      (1)   The Board shall require the Town Clerk-Treasurer and any other
officers and employees as it may designate by ordinance or otherwise to give
bond for the faithful performance of their duties in such amount and form as
the Board shall prescribe.
      (2)   The town shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
      (3)   The town may require the officer to secure the bond within ten days
after his or her election or appointment.
   (B)   Oath of office.
      (1)   All officers of the town, but not employees, are required to take
the oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the State Constitution before
they enter upon their duties.
      (2)   Both officers and employees are currently required to take and
subscribe to the loyalty oath prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 31.09 SALARY AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Salaries of elective officers. The compensation of all elective town
officers, including the following, shall be fixed by ordinance:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   Each Trustee; and
      (3)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Compensation of employees; number and classes of personnel.
      (1)   The compensation of all other officers and employees, excepting
those whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be
determined by motion or resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees and may be
changed at any time in the same manner.
      (2)   Except as the law provides otherwise, the Board of Trustees may
determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees.
   (C)   Restrictions on changing certain salaries. In no case shall the salary
or emoluments of any town officer elected or appointed for a definite term be
changed after his or her election or appointment or during his or her term of
office unless by operation of an ordinance passed prior to such election or
appointment, such being prohibited by Oklahoma Constitution Art. XXIII, § 10.
This provision shall not apply to officers chosen for indefinite terms, nor to
employees.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 31.10 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Declaration of policy and purpose. It is hereby declared to be the
policy and purpose of the town to extend to eligible employees and officials of
the town, at the earliest date, the benefits of the system of federal old age
and survivors insurance as authorized by the federal Social Security Act, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 401 et seq., and all amendments thereto, and by 51 O.S. §§ 121 et
seq. In pursuance of this policy, the officers and employees of the town shall
take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws and
regulations.
   (B)   Execution of agreement with state agency. The Mayor is authorized and
directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments with the State
Department of Human Services to accomplish the provisions of division (A)
above.
   (C)   Withholdings. Withholdings from the salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purpose provided in division (A) above are hereby authorized
to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable
state and federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid to the state or
federal agency designated by the laws and regulations.
   (D)   Employer contributions. Employer contributions shall be paid from
amounts appropriated for said purpose from available funds to the designated
state or federal agency in accordance with applicable state or federal laws and
regulations.
   (E)   Records and reports. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep such records
and submit such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws
and regulations.
   (F)   Exclusions. Excluded from this section authorizing the extension of
Social Security benefits to town officers and employees are the following:
      (1)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
town; or
      (2)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or
federal laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4)
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Jurisdiction of the Court
   
32.04   Judges of the Court; appointment, terms and duties
   
32.05   Principal officer of the Court
   
32.06   Clerk of the Court
   
32.07   Prosecuting Attorney
   
32.08   Rules of the Court
   
32.09   Written complaint to prosecute ordinance violation
   
32.10   Traffic ordinance violation; citation or arrest
   
32.11   Summons for arrest
   
32.12   Warrant for arrest
   
32.13   Bail or bond procedures
   
32.14   Arraignment and pleadings by defendant
   
32.15   Trial and judgments
   
32.16   Witness fees
   
32.17   Suspension of sentence
   
32.18   Imprisonment
   
32.19   Work by prisoners; directing prisoner work
   
32.20   Fines and costs taxed to defendant
   
32.21   Penalty assessment; fees
   
32.22   Facility Fund; fee
Cross-reference:
   General offense provisions, see
Ch. 130
   Traffic Code enforcement, see
Ch. 70
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Court of the town as put into operation by resolution duly passed and filed in
accordance with the law as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 and 27-102. To the
extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of
any ordinance of the town, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE or POLICE CHIEF. The peace officer in charge of the police
force of the town.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town, including any Deputy or
member of the office staff of the Clerk-Treasurer while performing the duties
of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the town.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any Acting Judge or
Alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of the state and this
chapter.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The thirteenth judicial district of the State of
Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
§ 32.03 JURISDICTION OF THE COURT.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the town is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the Court in accordance with
applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
§ 32.04 JUDGES OF THE COURT; APPOINTMENT, TERMS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Judge.
      (1)   Qualifications.
         (a)   There shall be one Judge of the Court. The Judge may be an
attorney licensed to practice law in the state or a resident of the town of the
age of 25 years or older who is possessed of good moral character.
         (b)   A Judge who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of
law in other courts, but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent
with his or her duties as Judge or arising out of facts which give rise to or
are connected with cases within the jurisdiction of the Court pending therein,
or which might become the subject of proceedings therein.
         (c)   He or she must be a resident of the county or of an adjacent
county or maintain a law office therein.
         (d)   He or she may serve as the Judge of other municipal courts if
such service may be accomplished consistently with his or her duties as Judge
of the Town Municipal Court and with the consent of the Town Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Term of office. The official term of the Judge shall be two years,
expiring each odd- numbered year. Each Judge, unless sooner removed for proper
cause, shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (B)   Alternate Judge. There shall be appointed for each Judge of the Court
an Alternate Judge possessed of the same qualifications required of the Judge
in this section. His or her appointment shall be for the same term and made in
the same manner as the Judge. He or she shall sit as Acting Judge of the Court
in any case if the Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case.
   (C)   Acting Judge. If at any time there is no duly-appointed and qualified
Judge or Alternate Judge who is available to sit as judge, then the Mayor, with
the consent of the Town Board, shall appoint some person possessing the
qualifications required by this section for the Judge, who shall preside as
Acting Judge over the Court in the disposition of pending matters until such
time as the Judge or Alternate Judge shall be available.
   (D)   Appointment of Judge and Alternate Judge. The Judge and Alternate
Judge shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Town Board of
Trustees. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the Town
Board at the next-to-last regularly-scheduled meeting prior to the day upon
which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon at the next
regularly-scheduled meeting. The Town Board may decide upon the proposed
appointment by a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. A failure of
decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a
later regularly-scheduled meeting of the Town Board unless the Mayor, in
writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
   (E)   Salary and payments to Judges.
      (1)   A Judge other than an Alternate Judge or Acting Judge shall receive
a salary as set by the Town Board of Trustees by motion or resolution.
      (2)   An Alternate Judge or Acting Judge shall be paid an amount as set
by motion or resolution of the Town Board; however, payments to an Acting Judge
or Alternate Judge shall not exceed the salary set for the Judge in whose stead
he or she sits.
   (F)   Removal of Judge.
      (1)   Filing of petition. Judges shall be subject to removal from office
by the Town Board for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of the
state for the removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be
instituted by the filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts
sufficient to constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may
be signed and filed by:
         (a)   The Mayor; or
         (b)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of the town. Verification
of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by one or more of
the petitioners.
      (2)   Hearing. The Town Board shall set a date for hearing the matter and
shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the Judge at least ten days before the hearing. At the hearing,
the Judge shall be entitled:
         (a)   To representation by counsel;
         (b)   To present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against
him or her; and
         (c)   To have all evidence against him or her presented in open
hearing.
      (3)   Compliance with statute; judgment of removal. So far as they can be
applicable, the provisions of the State Administrative Procedures Act, being 75
O.S. §§ 250 et seq., governing individual proceedings shall govern the removal
proceedings hereunder. A judgment of removal shall be entered only upon
individual votes by a majority of all members of the Town Board in favor of
such removal.
   (G)   Vacancy in office.
      (1)   A vacancy in the office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         (a)   Dies;
         (b)   Resigns;
         (c)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         (d)   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed
finally in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
      (2)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Judge, the Mayor,
with the consent of the Town Board, shall appoint a successor to complete the
unexpired term in the same manner as an original appointment is made.
   (H)   Disqualification of Judge. In prosecutions before the Court, no change
of venue shall be allowed, but the Judge before whom the case is pending may
certify his or her disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from
sitting under the terms, conditions and procedures provided by law for courts
of record. If a Judge is disqualified, then the matter shall be heard by an
Alternate Judge or Acting Judge appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4)
§ 32.05 PRINCIPAL OFFICER OF THE COURT.
   All writs or processes of the Court shall be directed, in his or her
official title, to the Police Chief of the town, who shall be the principal
officer of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
§ 32.06 CLERK OF THE COURT.
   (A)   Duties of Court Clerk.
      (1)   The Clerk, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall be the Clerk
of the Court. He or she shall assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of
the Court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers.
      (2)   He or she shall administer the oaths required in proceedings before
the Court. He or she shall enter all pleadings, processes and proceedings in
the dockets of the Court. He or she shall perform such other clerical duties
relating to the proceedings of the Court as the Judge shall direct.
      (3)   He or she shall receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines,
deposits and sums of money payable to the Court. He or she shall pay to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town all monies so received by him or her except for
such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him or
her for special purposes. All monies paid to the Clerk-Treasurer shall be
placed in the General Fund of the town, or in such other funds as the Town
Board may direct, and shall be used in the operation of the municipal
government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the funds in
which they are placed.
   (B)   Bond of Court Clerk. The Court Clerk shall give bond in the form
provided by 11 O.S. § 27-111. When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the
Town Board for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town and retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-6)
§ 32.07 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   The Town Attorney, or his or her duly-designated assistant, may be the
Prosecuting Officer of the Court. He or she may also prosecute all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the town. He or she shall be authorized, in his
or her discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal proceedings in error and
review from the Municipal Court to any other court of the state, and to
represent the town in all proceedings arising out of matters in the Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-7)
§ 32.08 RULES OF THE COURT.
   (A)   Prescribed by Judge. The Judge may prescribe rules consistent with the
laws of the state and with the ordinances of the town for the proper conduct of
the business of the Court.
   (B)   Enforcement. Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the
Judge or by the Court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison
for contempt committed as to him or her while holding court, or committed
against process issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the same extent
as the district courts of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-8)
§ 32.09 WRITTEN COMPLAINT TO PROSECUTE ORDINANCE VIOLATION.
   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of the town shall be styled
“The Town of Quapaw vs. (naming defendant or defendants).” Except as provided
hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making the complaint, setting
forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the Town
Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-9)
§ 32.10 TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATION; CITATION OR ARREST.
   (A)   Issuance of citation.
      (1)   If a police officer observes facts which he or she believes
constitute a violation of the traffic ordinances of the town committed by a
resident thereof, then in lieu of arresting such person, he or she may take
such person’s name, address and operator’s license number, the registered
license number of the motor vehicle involved and any other pertinent and
necessary information, and may issue such person in writing in the form
prescribed by the Mayor, or by his or her duly-designated delegate, a traffic
citation embracing the above information and also stating the traffic violation
alleged to have occurred, and notifying such person to answer to the charge
against him or her at a time not later than the date specified in the citation.
      (2)   The officer may release such person from custody upon receiving the
written promise of the alleged violator, endorsed on the citation, to answer as
specified. If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer as
prescribed in the citation, then a complaint shall be filed and the case shall
be prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Police officer options. If the alleged traffic violation is committed
by a nonresident or resident of the town, then the police officer may:
      (1)   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set
out in division (A) above pending his or her appearance on a day certain in
court, as specified in the citation, after the person:
         (a)   Posts cash bail; or
         (b)   Deposits with the arresting officer a guaranteed arrest bond
certificate.
      (2)   Take the person into custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the Judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his or her release in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed and giving
his or her written promise to appear upon a day certain as provided in division
(A) above, the person shall be released from custody.
   (C)   Parking violation.
      (1)   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting
or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under
such an ordinance, and the operator be not present, then the police officer
shall place on the vehicle at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice
of the operator a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in
divisions (A) or (B) above, with such variation as the circumstances require.
      (2)   The operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to
respond to the citation as if it had been issued to him or her personally under
divisions (A) or (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-10)
§ 32.11 SUMMONS FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging a violation of any ordinance,
the Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless
the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and
has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons naming the person charged,
specifying his or her address or place of residence, if known, stating the
offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or her notice to answer
the charge in the Court on a certain day as specified after the summons is
served upon him or her, and including such other pertinent information as may
be necessary.
   (B)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, then a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest as
provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-11)
§ 32.12 WARRANT FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the town, upon the
filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the Town Attorney or by
the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest in such form as provided
by the Municipal Court.
   (B)   It is the duty of the Police Chief personally, or through a duly-
constituted member of the police force of the town, or through any other person
lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-11)
§ 32.13 BAIL OR BOND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to a
citation or summons, or at any time before trial, whether before or after
arraignment, the defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail
for his or her appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this
chapter or the Judge, who shall prescribe appropriate rules of court for the
receipt of bail.
   (B)   In the case of arrests made at night or under other conditions of
emergency, or when the Judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the
Police Chief or his or her designated representative to accept a temporary cash
bond of not less than $20 nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided
by ordinance for the offense charged.
   (C)   A bail bond schedule may be adopted by the Judge and amended from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-12)
§ 32.14 ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT.
   (A)   Upon making his or her appearance before the Court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The Judge or the Town Attorney shall read the complaint to
the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights, including the
right of trial by jury, if available, and the consequences of conviction and
ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty.
   (B)   If the defendant pleads guilty, then the Court may proceed to judgment
and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition.
   (C)   If the plea is not guilty and the case is not for jury trial, then the
Court may proceed to try the case or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-13)
§ 32.15 TRIAL AND JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Postponement. Before a trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   Defendant present at trial. The defendant must be present in person at
the trial.
   (C)   Application of provisions. In all trials, as to matters not covered in
this chapter, by the statutes relating to municipal courts or by rules duly
promulgated by the State Supreme Court, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
   (D)   Guilty plea or verdict; imposing sentence. If the defendant pleads
guilty or is convicted after the trial, then the Court must render judgment
thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits prescribed by the applicable
ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
   (E)   Judgment rendered immediately. At the close of trial, judgment must be
rendered immediately by the Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in his or
her docket.
   (F)   Judgment of acquittal. If the judgment is of acquittal and the
defendant is not to be detained for any other legal cause, then he or she must
be discharged at once.
   (G)   Payment of fine. A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also
direct that he or she be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of
one day of imprisonment for each $25 of fine. If the defendant is without means
to pay the fine or costs, then the Judge may direct the total amount due to be
entered upon the court minutes and be certified to the County District Court,
where it shall be entered upon the District Court’s judgment docket and shall
have the full force and effect of a district court judgment. Thereupon, the
same remedies shall be available for the enforcement of the judgment as are
available to any other judgment.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-14)
§ 32.16 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Payment allowed. Witnesses in any proceeding in the Court other than
police officers or peace officers shall be entitled to a sum per each day of
attendance, plus mileage for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in
going to and returning from the place of attendance if their residence is
outside of the limits of the town. However, no witness shall receive fees or
mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or the same travel.
   (B)   Deposit required.
      (1)   Subpoena witnesses. A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must
deposit with the Clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day
of attendance for each witness to be summoned.
      (2)   Indigent defendants.
         (a)   Such deposit shall not be required from an indigent defendant
who files an affidavit setting out:
            1.   The names of not more than three witnesses;
            2.   That the defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable
to provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
            3.   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
            4.   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her
proper defense.
         (b)   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-15)
§ 32.17 SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   After conviction and sentence, the Judge may suspend sentence in accordance
with the provisions of, and subject to, the conditions and procedures imposed
by 11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-16)
§ 32.18 IMPRISONMENT.
   If, after conviction, a judgment of imprisonment is entered, then a copy
thereof, certified by the Clerk, shall be delivered to the Police Chief, the
Sheriff of the county or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-17)
§ 32.19 WORK BY PRISONERS; DIRECTING PRISONER WORK.
   (A)   Work by prisoners. All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on
a plea of guilty may be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the
public streets, avenues, alleys, parks, buildings or other public premises or
property. For each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited $50 until
the fine or costs are satisfied.
   (B)   Directing the work of prisoners. The Police Chief, subject to the
direction of the Town Board, shall direct where the work shall be performed.
The head of the department in charge of the place where the work is to be
performed, he himself, she herself or some person designated by him or her
shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, then the Police Chief shall
make provision therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-17)
§ 32.20 FINES AND COSTS TAXED TO DEFENDANT.
   If a judgment of conviction is entered, then the Clerk of the Court shall
tax the costs to the defendant, plus the fees and mileage of witnesses and
jurors, but the total amount of such fine may not exceed the amount set forth
in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-18)
§ 32.21 PENALTY ASSESSMENT; FEES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      CONVICTED. Any final adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of
guilty, nolo contendere or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or
judgment.
   (B)   Additional fee. Any person convicted of an offense punishable by a
fine of $10 or more or by incarceration, excluding parking and standing
violations, or any person forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense
shall be ordered by the Court to pay $9, or such amount as may be determined
from time to time by state statutes, as a separate penalty assessment which
shall be in addition to and not in substitution for any and all fines and
penalties otherwise provided for by law for such offense. The Court shall
provide for separate bail for the penalty assessment. A defendant admitted to
bail on an undertaking by a surety may include the amount of the penalty
assessment in the undertaking.
   (C)   Administrative fee.
      (1)   Upon a conviction or bond forfeiture, the Court shall collect the
penalty assessment and deposit it in an account created for that purpose. As an
administrative fee for handling the funds collected as a penalty assessment,
the Court is authorized to retain 2% of such monies and may also retain all
interest accrued thereon prior to the due date for deposits as provided in
division (C)(2) below. The remainder of such monies shall be forwarded
quarterly by the Court Clerk to the State Treasury.
      (2)   Deposits shall be due July 15 for the preceding quarter ending June
30, October 15 for the preceding quarter ending September 30, January 15 for
the preceding quarter ending December 31 and April 15 for the preceding quarter
ending March 31.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-19)
§ 32.22 FACILITY FUND; FEE.
   (A)   Establishment. A new fund was created, to be know as the “Town of
Quapaw Facility Fund.”
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the Facility Fund is to provide a funding
source for costs related to the facilities of the Town Municipal Court. These
costs may include, but are not limited to, improvements to the existing
Municipal Court facility, the construction of new Court facilities and the
housing costs of municipal prisoners in either a municipal jail or a facility
contracted to hold municipal prisoners for the town.
   (C)   Fee added.
      (1)   A Facility Fund fee of $35 will be added to all violations, except
for non child-related vehicle restraint violations, which are filed in the Town
Municipal Court. This fee will be in addition to existing fines, court costs
and other fees which are currently assessed to defendants upon their
conviction, such as dismissal with court costs and fees owed.
      (2)   The Facility Fund fee of $35, once paid, will be deposited into the
town Facility Fund, and such fees shall be used for the established purposes as
described in division (B) above.   
(Ord. 17-01, passed 2-14-2017)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Police Department
   
33.001   Department established
   
33.002   Police officers, appointment and duties
   
33.003   Police Department duties
   
33.004   Authority to dispose of personal property, money or legal tender
   
33.005   Process for disposing of personal property, money or legal tender
   
33.006   Exceptions to disposition process
   
33.007   Registration of lost-and-found property by finder
   
33.008   Payment of finders fee
Fire Department
   
33.020   Department established
   
33.021   Fire Department duties
   
33.022   Creation of officers; officer requirements
   
33.023   Fire Chief; duties
   
33.024   Assistant Chief
   
33.025   Company Officers (Captains)
   
33.026   Secretary-Treasurer
   
33.027   Training Officer
   
33.028   New members
   
33.029   Bylaws for volunteer firefighters
   
33.030   Disciplinary Review Board
   
33.031   Expulsion of a firefighter and recall of officers; due process
   
33.032   Amendments to bylaws by the Department
   
33.033   Changes to regulations by the Board of Trustees
   
33.034   Meetings; procedures and requirements
   
33.035   Dues and fines
   
33.036   Use of fire equipment; inventory and repair
   
33.037   Service outside of town
   
33.038   Fees for emergency services
   
33.039   Firefighters Pension and Retirement Fund
Emergency Management Department
   
33.050   Department established
   
33.051   Purpose and duties
   
33.052   Director of Emergency Management
   
33.053   Powers of Director in emergencies
   
33.054   Compensation of members; nonliability of town
Town Planning Commission
   
33.065   Membership; terms and compensation
   
33.066   Officers; employees
   
33.067   Meetings; legal expenses
   
33.068   Powers and duties
   
33.069   Acting as Zoning Commission
Metropolitan Area Planning Commission
   
33.080   Membership
   
33.081   Agreement with county
   
33.082   Functions
Regional Planning Commission
   
33.095   Membership
   
33.096   Powers
   
33.097   Hearing; zoning recommendations
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.001 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; POLICE CHIEF.
   There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of
Police, or Police Chief, appointed by the Town Board of Trustees and removable
by the Board. The Police Chief is an officer of the town and has supervision
and control of the Police Department. All police officers are officers of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 33.002 POLICE OFFICERS, APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Appointment. Police officers shall be appointed subject to approval of
the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Duties. Police officers shall perform such duties as shall be required
of them by the Police Chief, town ordinances, federal, state and county
regulations and any other actions required in the maintenance of good order and
public peace.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 33.003 POLICE DEPARTMENT DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Police Department to:
   (A)   Apprehend and arrest on view or on warrant and bring to justice all
violators of the ordinances of the town;
   (B)   Suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to
its knowledge, and generally to keep the peace;
   (C)   Serve all warrants, writs, executions and other processes properly
directed and delivered to it;
   (D)   Apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as
provided by law and turn them over to the proper authorities; and
   (E)   In all respects, perform all duties pertaining to the office of police
officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 33.004 AUTHORITY TO DISPOSE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY, MONEY OR LEGAL TENDER.
   The Police Chief is authorized to dispose, as provided in this subchapter,
of personal property, money or legal tender which has come into the possession
of the Police Chief in any manner if:
   (A)   The owner of the personal property, money or legal tender is unknown
or has not claimed the property;
   (B)   The property, money or legal tender has been in the custody of the
Police Chief for at least 90 days; and
   (C)   The property, money or legal tender, or any part thereof, is no longer
needed to be held as evidence or for any other purpose in connection with any
litigation.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 33.005 PROCESS FOR DISPOSING OF PERSONAL PROPERTY, MONEY OR LEGAL TENDER.
   (A)   Request to conduct sale; hearing. The Police Chief shall file an
application in the County District Court requesting the authority of the Court
to conduct a sale of personal property which has a fair market value of more
than its face value. The Police Chief shall attach to the application a list
describing the property, including any identifying numbers and marks, the date
the property came into possession of the Police Chief, the name of the owner
and of the person in last possession, if different, and the address of the
person, if known. The Court shall set the application for hearing not less than
ten days nor more than 20 days after the filing of the application.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. In any instance where the property has an actual or
apparent value of more than $100, at least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing, notice of the hearing shall be sent by certified mail to each owner at
the address as listed in the application. If the owner of any property with an
actual or apparent value exceeding $500 is unable to be served notice by
certified mail, then notice shall be provided by one publication in a newspaper
of general circulation in the town. The notice shall contain a brief
description of the property of the owner and the place and date of the hearing.
The notice shall be posted at the assigned place for the posting of municipal
notices and at two other public places in the town.
   (C)   Order authorizing disposal of property.
      (1)   If no owner appears and establishes ownership to the property at
the hearing, then the Court shall enter an order authorizing the Police Chief
to dispose of the property as follows:
         (a)   Donate property having a value of less than $500 to a not-for-
profit corporation, as defined in 18 O.S., for use by needy families;
         (b)   Sell the personal property for cash to the highest bidder after
at least five days’ notice of the sale has been published;
         (c)   Transfer the property to a third party agent under contract with
the Town Board or the Police Chief for sale by internet or other electronic
means, regardless of whether the sale structure or distribution site is within
the state; or
         (d)   By any other means as determined appropriate by the Court,
including, but not limited to, destruction.
      (2)   Regardless of the means of disposition, the Police Chief shall make
a return of the donation or sale, and the order of the Court confirming the
donation or sale shall vest title to the property in the recipient or
purchaser. After payment of court costs and other expenses, the remainder of
the money received from the sale of personal property shall be deposited in the
municipal General Fund.
   (D)   Disposition of money or legal tender.
      (1)   All money or legal tender which has come into the possession of the
Police Chief pursuant to the circumstances provided in §
33.004 of this chapter shall be transferred by the Police Chief to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer for deposit in the municipal General Fund.
      (2)   Prior to any transfer, the Police Chief shall file an application
in the District Court requesting the Court to enter an order authorizing the
Police Chief to transfer the money for deposit in the municipal General Fund.
The application shall describe the money or legal tender, the date the same
came into possession of the Police Chief and the name of the owner and address
of the owner, if known.
      (3)   Upon filing the application, which may be joined with an
application as described in division (A) above, a hearing shall be set not less
than ten days nor more than 20 days from the filing of the application.
      (4)   Notice of the hearing shall be given as provided in division (B)
above. The notice shall state that upon failure of anyone to appear to prove
ownership to the money or legal tender, the Court shall order the same to be
deposited in the municipal General Fund. The notice may be combined with a
notice to sell personal property as provided in division (A) above.
      (5)   If no one appears to claim and prove ownership to the money or
legal tender at the hearing, then the Court shall order the same to be
transferred to the municipal General Fund as provided in this division (D).
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 33.006 EXCEPTIONS TO DISPOSITION PROCESS.
   (A)   The provisions of §§
33.004 through
33.008 of this chapter shall not apply to any dangerous or deadly weapons,
narcotic or poisonous drugs, explosives or any property of any kind or
character for which the possession of such is prohibited by law.
   (B)   By order of the trial court, any property filed as an exhibit or held
by the town shall be destroyed, sold or disposed of pursuant to the conditions
prescribed in the order.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 33.007 REGISTRATION OF LOST-AND-FOUND PROPERTY BY FINDER.
   The town is hereby authorized to establish a procedure for the registration
of “lost-and-found” property. The procedure shall give the finder of any
property the option of relinquishing any future claim to found property at the
time its possession is surrendered to the police or other agent of the town, or
of retaining possession of the property after registering its description and
the finder’s identity with the Police Department or other agent of the town.
Only property in which the finder relinquishes any future claim to ownership
will be stored in municipal police property rooms.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 33.008 PAYMENT OF FINDERS FEE.
   The town may provide by ordinance that a percentage of the money or legal
tender deposited in the municipal General Fund as provided in §
33.005(C) and (D) of this chapter may be paid as a finder’s fee for services
rendered to any person who found the unclaimed personal property, money or
legal tender and delivered it to, or registered it with, the Police Chief or
other agent of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.020 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Volunteer Fire Department.
      (1)   The town does hereby create a volunteer fire department with not
more than 25 firefighters and not less than eight firefighters.
      (2)   The name of the organization shall be “The Quapaw Volunteer Fire
Department.”
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER. One who is enrolled as a member of the Fire
Department of the town and who serves in that capacity without receiving a
regular salary.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 33.021 FIRE DEPARTMENT DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to:
   (A)   Extinguish fires;
   (B)   Rescue persons endangered by fire;
   (C)   Resuscitate and administer first aid to persons injured in or about
burning structures, or elsewhere in the case of an emergency;
   (D)   Promote fire prevention; and
   (E)   Unless otherwise provided, enforce all ordinances relating to fires,
fire prevention and the safety of persons from fire in public and private
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 33.022 CREATION OF OFFICERS; OFFICER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Electing officers.
      (1)   The following shall be elected by secret ballot from the membership
of the Department by the membership of the Department:
         (a)   Fire Chief;
         (b)   Assistant Chief;
         (c)   Three Company Officers (Captains); and
         (d)   Secretary-Treasurer.
      (2)   Only one firefighter can hold one officer position.
      (3)   Said officers shall be elected by a majority vote of the members at
the first regular meeting in May every two years. Officers will be installed at
the first meeting in June.
   (B)   Officer requirements. The following are requirements for election for
an officer.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall be required to have been a member of the
Department for a minimum of five years and be Firefighter 1 certified.
      (2)   The Assistant Chief shall be required to have been a member of the
Department for at least five years and be Firefighter 1 certified.
      (3)   A Company Officer (Captain) must have been a member for at least
three years and be Firefighter 1 certified.
      (4)   The Secretary-Treasurer shall be elected by members of the Fire
Department.
      (5)   All officers must have knowledge of the firefighter reporting
system.
      (6)   The Training Officer shall have Firefighter 1 certification and, in
addition, meet one of the following:
         (a)   Instructor Level 1 and at least five years in the Department; or
         (b)   Instructor Level 2 and at least three years in the Department.
§ 33.023 FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES.
   (A)   Position.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall be confirmed by the Town Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall be the head of the Department, subject to the
laws of the state, the ordinances of the town and the rules, regulations and
standard operating procedures and standard operating guidelines of the Town
Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the Department, the training of members and the
performance of all of the other duties imposed upon him or her by the town. He
or she shall have supervision and control of the Fire Department, subject to
the supervision and control of the Town Board.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall inspect, or cause to be inspected, the fire
hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at least once a year.
      (3)   The Fire Chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on
fire prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best
advantage of all members.
      (4)   The Fire Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and
other emergencies and direct the officers and members in the performance of
their duties and to attend any department head meetings.
      (5)   The Fire Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated
to determine its cause and, in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall
notify the proper authorities and take precautions to secure and preserve all
possible evidence for future use in the case.
      (6)   The Fire Chief shall file the appropriate activity report forms
with the office of the State Fire Marshal in Oklahoma City on an annual basis.
The activity report forms shall be designed by the State Fire Marshal and shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   The amount of property and vehicle fire loss;
         (b)   Types of fires, inspections and investigations; and
         (c)   Notification of all fire-related civilian deaths and injuries in
the respective jurisdiction and of firefighter deaths in the line of duty and
firefighter injuries in the line of duty requiring the services of a hospital,
physician or both.
      (7)   The Fire Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected all public and
commercial buildings. He or she is also empowered to take every possible
precaution to prevent fires and to guard the public from any unsafe conditions
which exist.
      (8)   The Fire Chief shall maintain a current inventory of all equipment
and property of the Fire Department.
      (9)   The Fire Chief, or his or her authorized appointee, shall be the
Incident Commander at the scene of a fire or other emergency involving the
protection of life and/or property.
      (10)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to appoint representatives
from the membership of the Department to assist in the performance of his or
her official duties.
§ 33.024 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   (A)   In the absence of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Chief shall command
the Department and be responsible in all aspects with the full power and
responsibilities of the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Assistant Chief shall perform any other duties as assigned by the
Fire Chief.
§ 33.025 COMPANY OFFICERS (CAPTAINS).
   (A)   (1)   The Company Officers (Captains) shall be selected upon their
ability to meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Their knowledge of firefighting; and
         (b)   Their knowledge of rescue techniques and equipment.
      (2)   Their duties shall be to assist the Fire Chief and Assistant Chief
in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   The Senior Officer (Captain) shall be the individual with the greatest
number of years with the Department.
   (C)   In the absence of the Fire Chief and Assistant Chief, the Senior
Officer shall command the Department and be responsible in all aspects with the
full power and responsibilities of the Fire Chief during an emergency.
§ 33.026 SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   The Secretary-Treasurer shall be responsible for, but not limited to:
   (A)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
   (B)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting;
   (C)   Collecting any money due to the Department by the members;
   (D)   Billing and processing all rural emergency calls made by the
Department;
   (E)   Keeping attendance records of all members for all calls they attend;
   (F)   Maintaining all funds received, obtained, donated, earned, collected
or otherwise in possession of the Department in a fund entitled “Quapaw Fire
Department” and supplying the Town Board of Trustees with a monthly balance
sheet showing all income and expenses for the month for its approval; and
   (G)   Other duties as assigned by the Fire Chief.
§ 33.027 TRAINING OFFICER.
   (A)   One member shall be elected as the Training Officer, whose duties
shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Submit an annual training schedule to the officers of the
Department for their approval each January;
      (2)   Conform to the requirements of the training as set forth by
federal, state and local regulations;
      (3)   Submit a quarterly report (training year quarter) of all
firefighters’ completed training hours to the Department at the regular
business meeting following the end of the quarter;
      (4)   Work to maintain competency in the field of firefighting/rescue
instruction techniques;
      (5)   Work to involve any and all qualified instructors of the Town Fire
Department in the training; and
      (6)   Maintain individual training records at the station, which shall be
available for review by the individual members of the Department.
   (B)   The Training Officer or his or her designee shall be responsible for
maintaining the master file of training records. The training year shall be
from January 1 through December 31.
§ 33.028 NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   New members of the Department shall be approved by the Application
Committee and by a majority of the members of the Fire Department and shall
then be on probation for one year after such approval.
   (B)   New members shall be selected by secret ballot by a majority vote of
the membership, must be a minimum of 18 years of age and must pass a physical
agility test with the State Firefighters Pension and Retirement System.
   (C)   New members shall be governed by all rules, regulations and standard
operating procedures which apply to all volunteer firefighters.
   (D)   New members shall be on probation for a period of one year after their
appointment, during which time they shall complete 30-hour core courses of
Firefighter 1 essentials within one year. New firefighters must complete
Firefighter 1 within 18 months of hire unless no classes are available. The
minimum number of training hours as required to meet federal, state and local
regulations. Upon completion of their probationary period, new members must be
confirmed by a majority vote of the membership.
   (E)   New members having one or more years of prior experience with the Town
Fire Department, and having left the Department in good standing, shall not be
subject to the probation and confirmation.
§ 33.029 BYLAWS FOR VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   All volunteer firefighters have a duty to respond to alarms of fire
and other emergencies when notified.
   (B)   Firefighters have a duty to be present at all business and training
meetings and at special training schools presented for the benefit of the
entire Department.
   (C)   Any firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession or three
unexcused absences in a period of three months, as pertaining to division (B)
above, shall be subject to disciplinary action.
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time are
required to notify the Fire Chief or a member of the Department.
   (E)   All volunteer firefighters shall complete the minimum number of annual
training hours as required to meet federal, state and local regulations.
   (F)   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes mandated
by the Department shall be disciplined according to the Fire Department
standard operating procedures and standard operating guidelines.
   (G)   Any volunteer firefighter who does not attend training held by the
Town Volunteer Fire Department will make up the training in the same training
quarter. Any member failing to make up the training is subject to disciplinary
action.
   (H)   (1)   Disciplinary action against members. Any volunteer member of the
Fire Department may have disciplinary action taken against him or her by the
Fire Chief for just cause, including, but not limited to, any of the offenses
in division (H)(2) below.
      (2)   Listing of deficiencies.
         (a)   Any illegal or unethical act;
         (b)   Any unsafe act;
         (c)   Violation of safety procedures;
         (d)   Insubordination;
         (e)   Inefficiency;
         (f)   Neglect or abandonment of duty;
         (g)   Participation in prohibited political activity;
         (h)   Solicitation;
         (i)   Attendance;
         (j)   Falsification of records and/or documents;
         (k)   Using or being under the influence of drugs or intoxicating
beverages while on calls;
         (l)   Waste, damage or unauthorized use of town supplies, equipment or
other property;
         (m)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
         (n)   Horseplay resulting in personal injury or damage to property;
         (o)   Conviction of a felony;
         (p)   Lack of training hours; or
         (q)   Any other inappropriate behavior as determined by the Fire
Chief, Assistant Chief and Senior Captain.
   (I)   Types of disciplinary action are as follows.
      (1)   Oral. This would generally be informal and intended for instruction
purposes as well as of a corrective nature. The Fire Chief is to document to
the personnel file the reason for the disciplinary action.
      (2)   Written reprimand. This must contain the nature of the infraction,
the likely consequences of further infractions, the date, the Fire Chief’s
signature and the firefighter’s signature indicating receipt (not necessarily
agreement). The firefighter is to receive a copy of the reprimand, with the
original being placed in the firefighter’s departmental personnel file as a
permanent record.
      (3)   Written reprimand with suspension. This ordinarily, but not
necessarily, follows a written reprimand. The Fire Chief, with the signed
concurrence of the Assistant Chief and the Senior Captain, may indefinitely
suspend the firefighter pending completion of any investigation of the
incident.
      (4)   Expulsion. This is the choice when all other avenues have been
exhausted or are clearly inadequate under the circumstances. The power of
expulsion resides exclusively with the Department membership and shall be
exercised only pursuant to the provisions of §
33.031 of this chapter.
§ 33.030 DISCIPLINARY REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a disciplinary review board consisting of
seven active members and one alternate member, comprised as follows:
      (1)   The four junior officers of the Department, the two junior
Captains, Secretary-Treasurer and Training Officer; and
      (2)   Three firefighters and one alternate firefighter, to be selected by
random drawing annually at the time of the election of officers.
   (B)   The Disciplinary Review Board shall resolve disciplinary grievances
falling under its authority as follows.
      (1)   All formal grievances of disciplinary action received under §
33.029 of this chapter may be brought before the Review Board by written
petition, signed by the firefighter, within ten days of the disciplinary
action. The Board shall conduct a review hearing within 20 days, affording not
less than ten days’ written notice to the firefighter. The firefighter shall
have the right to attend and present witnesses and evidence to challenge the
disciplinary action.
      (2)   A simple majority of the Board (four members) must concur before a
formal disciplinary action will be reversed. A disciplinary action which is
reversed by the Review Board shall be expunged from the firefighter’s
departmental personnel file.
      (3)   The alternate member of the Board may only participate in the
review process if another member:
         (a)   Is disqualified from serving by being the firefighter seeking
review;
         (b)   Is disqualified from serving by being an officer participating
in the underlying disciplinary action; or
         (c)   Is otherwise unable to serve.
§ 33.031 EXPULSION OF A FIREFIGHTER AND RECALL OF OFFICERS; DUE PROCESS.
   (A)   A recommendation for the expulsion of a firefighter may only be made
by the written concurrence of the Fire Chief, Assistant Chief and Senior
Captain. The grounds and nature of the charged infraction(s) of the bylaws
supporting the recommendation shall be set forth in detail.
   (B)   A recommendation for the recall of an officer may only be made by two
methods:
      (1)   The written and signed recommendation of not less than three
officers; or
      (2)   A vote of the members at a regular or specially-called meeting. In
either case, the grounds and nature of the charged infraction(s) of the bylaws
supporting the recommendation shall be set forth in detail.
   (C)   The expulsion of a firefighter or recall of an officer can take place
only by a two-thirds vote of the total membership at a regular or specially-
called meeting for that purpose. Voting for this purpose shall be by secret
ballot.
   (D)   The charged firefighter or officer shall be entitled to:
      (1)   Not less than ten days’ written notice of the meeting, together
with a complete copy of the recommendation containing the grounds and nature of
the charged infraction(s) of the bylaws; and
      (2)   The right to attend and present witnesses and evidence to refute
the charges.
§ 33.032 AMENDMENTS TO BYLAWS BY THE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The bylaws may be amended, added to or altered by a majority vote of
the membership at any regular meeting of the Department, provided that before
any amendment shall be made, the Secretary shall give notice of such proposed
amendment to each and every member of the Department in writing at least three
days prior to the meeting in which the vote on such an amendment is to be
taken. Upon approval by the Fire Department, the amendment to the bylaws shall
be submitted to the Town Board of Trustees and become effective immediately
upon approval.
   (B)   In the event that any provision of the bylaws is held to be invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the
remaining provisions.
§ 33.033 CHANGES TO REGULATIONS BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Town Board of Trustees may, by motion or by resolution, adopt and change
regulations relating to the Fire Department and its organization, operation and
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7)
§ 33.034 MEETINGS; PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All meetings of the Town Volunteer Fire Department shall be open to
the public and shall conform to the requirements of the State Open Meeting Act.
   (B)   There shall be a regular business meeting of the Department, which is
to be held each month on the day set forth by the Department. There shall be a
regular training meeting of the Department each month on the day set forth by
the Department.
   (C)   There must be a minimum of ten members present to constitute a quorum.
A quorum must be present before any business may be conducted. Except where the
bylaws provide otherwise, all questions shall be decided by majority vote. A
roll call vote may be taken if approved by a majority of those present, except
for in the case of the selection of new members, the election or recall of
officers or the expulsion of a firefighter.
   (D)   In the absence of the Fire Chief, the next ranking officer shall
conduct the meeting.
   (E)   Special meetings may be called by the Fire Chief or the Assistant
Chief only. All firefighters shall be notified.
   (F)   At each meeting of the Fire Department, the following order of
business shall be followed unless dispensed with a majority vote of the members
present:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading of minutes of previous meeting;
      (3)   Comments from the public;
      (4)   Old business;
      (5)   Report from officers;
      (6)   Report from Secretary;
      (7)   New business; and
      (8)   Adjournment.
§ 33.035 DUES AND FINES.
   (A)   Dues, if any, will be set by a simple majority vote of the Department.
   (B)   Fines, if any, will be set by a simple majority vote of the members of
the Department.
§ 33.036 USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR.
   (A)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Department.
   (B)   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus are housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.037 SERVICE OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   (A)   Contracts authorized. The town is hereby authorized and empowered to
enter into contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private
corporations and associations or political subdivisions of the state for fire
protection outside of the corporate limits of the town and to contract to
provide fire protection jointly with other organizations and municipal
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   Contract terms; fees for service.
      (1)   Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner,
firm, private corporation or association or political subdivision for outside
aid or for mutual aid for fire protection shall provide for payment by the
owner, firm, private corporation or association or political subdivision to the
town for such fire apparatus and personnel at the rate per call as set by the
Town Board.
      (2)   All monies received from such calls shall go into the General Fund.
   (C)   Authority to answer calls. The Fire Department of the town is hereby
authorized and directed to answer, in the discretion of the Fire Chief, all
outside calls outside of the corporate town limits. The Fire Department may not
answer such outside calls if, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, it is
inexpedient to do so because of another fire in the town, broken apparatus,
impassable or dangerous highways or other physical conditions.
   (D)   Serving in regular line of duty.
      (1)   All volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department of the town
attending and serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside of the
corporate limits of the town as herein provided shall be considered as serving
in their regular line of duty as fully as if they were serving within the
corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   Such firefighters shall be entitled to all of the benefits of any
firefighters pension and retirement fund in the same manner as if the
firefighting or fire prevention work were being done within the corporate
limits of the town.
      (3)   The compensation of firefighters shall be as provided by the Board
of Trustees by ordinance or resolution.
   (E)   Department considered agent of the state. The Fire Department of the
town answering any fire alarm or call or performing any fire prevention
services outside of the corporate limits of the town shall be considered as an
agent of the state and acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and
the town shall not be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission or
negligence while answering or returning from any fire or reported fire or doing
any fire prevention work under and by virtue of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9)
§ 33.038 FEES FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   Mitigation rates based on per hour.
      (1)   Average costs. The mitigation rates in this section are average
“billing levels” and are typical for the incident responses listed. However,
when a claim is submitted, it may be itemized and based on the actual services
provided.
      (2)   Actual costs. These rates are based on actual costs using amortized
schedules for apparatus (including useful life, equipment, repairs and
maintenance). Labor rates include an average department’s actual burdened labor
cost and not just firefighters’ wages. These include wages, retirement
benefits, workers’ compensation and the like.
   (B)   Motor vehicle incidents.
      (1)   Level 1 cost: $546. This provides hazardous materials assessment
and scene stabilization. This is the most common “billing level.” This occurs
almost every time the Fire Department responds to an accident/incident.
      (2)   Level 2 cost: $623. This includes Level 1 services as well as
cleanup and material used (sorbents) for hazardous fluid cleanup and disposal.
This level is billed at if the Fire Department has to clean up any gasoline or
other automobile fluids that are spilled as a result of the accident/incident.
      (3)   Level 3, car fire, cost: $760. This provides scene safety, fire
suppression, breathing air, rescue tools, hand tools, hoses, tip use and foam,
structure protection and cleanup of gasoline or other automotive fluids that
are spilled as a result of the accident/incident.
      (4)   Add-on services.
         (a)   1.   Extraction cost: $1,641; and
            2.   Includes heavy rescue tools, ropes, airbags, cribbing and the
like. This charge will be added if the Fire Department has to free/rescue
anyone from the vehicle(s) using equipment. This level is not billed at if the
patient is simply unconscious and the Fire Department is able to open the door
to access the patient. This level is to be billed only if equipment is
deployed.
         (b)   1.   Creating a landing zone cost: $502; and
            2.   Includes Air Care (multi-engine company response, mutual aid
and helicopter). This level is billed at anytime a helicopter landing zone is
created and/or is utilized to transport the patient(s).
      (5)   Itemized response. You have the option to bill each incident as an
independent event with custom mitigation rates for each incident using itemized
rates deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents will be
billed and itemized per apparatus and personnel, plus products and equipment
used.
   (C)   Hazmat.
      (1)   Level 1, basic response, cost: $881. This claim will include engine
response, first responder assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuation,
setup and command.
      (2)   Level 2, intermediate response, cost: $3,146. This claim will
include engine response, first responder assignment, hazmat-certified team and
appropriate equipment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, first responder
setup and command, Level A or B suit donning, breathing air and detection
equipment and setup and removal of the decontamination center.
      (3)   Level 3, advanced response, cost: $7,426.
         (a)   This claim will include engine response, first responder
assignment, hazmat-certified team and appropriate equipment, perimeter
establishment, evacuations, first responder setup and command, Level A or B
suit donning, breathing air and detection equipment, robot deployment, setup
and removal of the decontamination center, detection equipment and recovery and
identification of material and contaminated equipment and material used at the
scene.
         (b)   This includes three hours of on-scene time. Each additional hour
is $356 per hazmat team.
   (D)   Fire investigation.
      (1)   Cost. A fire investigation team is $346 per hour.
      (2)   Includes.
         (a)   Scene safety;
         (b)   Investigation;
         (c)   Source identification;
         (d)   K-9 dog unit;
         (e)   Identification equipment;
         (f)   Mobile detection unit; and
         (g)   Fire report.
      (3)   Scope details. The claim begins when the fire investigators respond
to the incident and is billed for logged time only.
   (E)   Fires.
      (1)   Assignment. The cost is $503 per hour per engine and $629 per hour
per truck.
      (2)   Includes.
         (a)   Scene safety;
         (b)   Investigation; and
         (c)   Fire/hazard control.
      (3)   Response details. This is the most common “billing level.” This
occurs almost every time the Fire Department responds to an incident.
      (4)   Optional. A Fire Department has the option to bill each fire as an
independent event with custom mitigation rates itemized, per person, at various
pay levels and for itemized product use.
   (F)   Illegal fires.
      (1)   Assignment. The cost is $503 per hour per engine and $629 per hour
per truck.
      (2)   Response details. When a fire is started by any person or persons
that requires a Fire Department response during a time or season when fires are
regulated or controlled by local or state rules, provisions or ordinances
because of pollution or fire danger concerns, such person or persons will be
liable for the Fire Department response at a cost not to exceed the actual
expenses incurred by the Fire Department to respond and contain the fire.
Similarly, if a fire is started where permits are required for such fire and
the permit was not obtained, and the Fire Department is required to respond to
contain the fire, then the responsible party will be liable for the response at
a cost not to exceed the actual expenses incurred by the Fire Department. The
actual expenses will include direct labor, equipment costs and any other costs
that can be reasonably allocated to the cost of the response.
   (G)   Water incidents.
      (1)   Level 1, basic response.
         (a)   This is billed at $503, plus $62 per hour per rescue person.
         (b)   The claim will include engine response, first responder
assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuation, first responder setup and
command, scene safety and investigation (including possible patient contact and
hazard control). This is the most common “billing level.” This occurs almost
every time the Fire Department responds to a water incident.
      (2)   Level 2, intermediate response.
         (a)   This is billed at $1,006, plus $62 per hour per rescue person.
         (b)   This includes Level 1 services as well as cleanup and material
used (sorbents) and minor hazardous cleanup and disposal. This level is billed
at if the Fire Department has to clean up small amounts of gasoline or other
fluids that are spilled as a result of the incident.
      (3)   Level 3, advanced response.
         (a)   This is billed at $2,489, plus $62 per hour per rescue person,
plus $126 per hour per hazmat team member.
         (b)   This includes Levels 1 and 2 services as well as D.A.R.T.
activation, donning breathing apparatus and detection equipment, setup and
removal of the decontamination center, detection equipment, recovery and
identification of material, disposal and environment cleanup. Includes the
above in addition to any disposal rates of materials and contaminated equipment
and material used at the scene.
      (4)   Itemized response. You have the option to bill each incident as an
independent event with custom mitigation rates for each incident using itemized
rates deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents will be
billed and itemized per trained rescue person, plus rescue products used.
   (H)   Back country of special rescue.
      (1)   Minimum billing. The cost is $503 for the first response vehicle,
plus $62 per rescue person.
      (2)   Additional rates. The cost is $503 per hour per response vehicle
and $62 per hour per rescue person.
      (3)   Itemized response. Each incident will be billed with custom
mitigation rates deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents
will be billed and itemized per apparatus per hour, per trained rescue person
per hour, plus rescue products used.
   (I)   Chief response.
      (1)   Billing. The cost is $315 per hour.
      (2)   Response details. This includes the setup of command and providing
direction of the incident. This could include operations, safety and
administration of the incident.
   (J)   Miscellaneous/additional time on-scene. Additional time on-scene for
all levels of services:
      (1)   Engine. Billed at $503 per hour;
      (2)   Truck. Billed at $629 per hour; and
      (3)   Miscellaneous equipment. Billed at $378.
   (K)   Mitigation rate notes.
      (1)   Average costs. The mitigation rates are average “billing levels”
for one hour of service and are typical for the incident responses listed.
However, when a claim is submitted, it may be itemized and based on the actual
services provided.
      (2)   Actual costs. These average mitigation rates were determined by
itemizing the costs for a typical run (from the time a fire apparatus leaves
the station until it returns to the station) and are based on the actual cost
using amortized schedules for apparatus (including useful life, equipment,
repairs and maintenance) and labor rates (and an average department’s “actual
personnel expense” and not just firefighters’ basic wages). The accrual
personnel expense includes costs such as wages, retirement, benefits, workers’
compensation, insurance and the like.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 33.039 FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   Deductions from salaries or wages.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each
paid member of the Fire Department the appropriate amounts of money as
established and required by state law as contribution to the Firefighters
Pension Fund. However, if the members of the Fire Department, by a majority
vote of its paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, then
the amounts authorized by this division (A) shall be increased to reflect the
amounts approved by the majority vote.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall deposit monthly with the
State Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board the amounts deducted pursuant
to this division (A). Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a Fire
Department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The deductions
shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to ascertain
the exact amount which he or she is contributing.
   (B)   Monthly deposits with the state. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
deposit monthly with the State Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board the
amounts of money as established and required by state law for each paid member
of the Fire Department.
   (C)   Yearly deposits for volunteer members. For each volunteer member of
the Fire Department, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit yearly with the
State Firefighters Pension and Retirement Board the amounts of money as
established and required by state law. These amounts may be revised according
to actuarial studies and amounts as set by the State Firefighters Pension and
Retirement Board.
   (D)   Transfer of assets. All assets of the Town Firefighters Pension and
Retirement Fund shall be transferred to the State Firefighters Pension and
Retirement Board. Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable
securities and such other specific assets as permitted by the State Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
§ 33.050 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government a
Department of Emergency Management, which shall consist of:
   (A)   A Director of Emergency Management, who shall be appointed and may be
removed with or without cause by the Mayor; and
   (B)   An Emergency Management Advisory Committee.
      (1)   This Committee shall consist of the Mayor as Chairperson and five
members appointed by the Mayor and serving at his or her pleasure.
      (2)   The Committee shall select from its members a Vice Chairperson and
a Secretary.
      (3)   Said Committee shall hold such meetings as are directed by the
Mayor, and its function shall be to act in an advisory capacity as needed or
requested by the Mayor or the Director of Emergency Management.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2)
§ 33.051 PURPOSE AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Purpose. An emergency management organization is created for the town
to carry out preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of the town.
   (B)   Duties. The duties of said emergency management organization are the
protection of the lives and health of the citizens and of property and property
rights, both private and public, and the performance of all functions necessary
and incident thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)
§ 33.052 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Responsibility. The Director of Emergency Management shall be the
executive head of the Department of Emergency Management and shall be
responsible for carrying out the emergency management program of the town.
   (B)   Compensation. The Director shall serve without compensation, but he or
she may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his or her
duties.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Emergency Management, as
soon as practicable after his or her appointment, to perfect an organization to
carry out the purposes set forth in this subchapter, and he or she shall have
all necessary power and authority to form committees or other bodies and to
appoint and designate the chairpersons or chief officers of such bodies as may
be necessary to perfect such an organization.
      (2)   He or she shall have the further duty and responsibility to
cooperate with all emergency management agencies of other governmental units,
including of the state and the federal governments.
      (3)   The Director of Emergency Management is further authorized to
formulate written plans and to gather information and keep written records
thereof to govern the functions of the emergency management organization.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3)
§ 33.053 POWERS OF DIRECTOR IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or an emergency resulting
from natural causes, the Director of Emergency Management, after due
authorization from the Mayor, shall have the power and authority to enforce all
rules and regulations relating to emergency management, and if necessary, to
take control of transportation, communications, stock of fuel, food, clothing,
medicine and public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian
population. He or she shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other
governmental agencies or emergency management organizations. If required by the
Mayor, the Director shall have control over any and all funds allocated from
any source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the town.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Management and other members of the
emergency management organization created by him or her shall have the power
and authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the town
during the period of emergency, and shall at such time have the further power
to make arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4)
§ 33.054 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS; NONLIABILITY OF TOWN.
   All members of the emergency management organization created in this
subchapter shall serve without compensation. The town shall not be liable for
any personal or bodily injury received by any member of such organization while
acting in the line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5)
TOWN PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.065 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Creation; membership. A Town Planning Commission is hereby created for
the town. It shall consist of five appointive members, all of whom shall be
residents of the town, and shall have the Chairperson of the Town Board of
Trustees and the Town Engineer, if any, as ex officio members. Trustees of the
town shall be eligible to serve on the Planning Commission concurrently with
their terms as Trustees.
   (B)   Appointment; terms. The appointive members shall be nominated by the
Mayor and appointed by the Board of Trustees, and shall serve for terms of
three years. Of the original appointive members, one shall serve for a term of
one year, two shall serve for a term of two years and two shall serve for a
term of three years.
   (C)   Vacancies and removals.
      (1)   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms.
      (2)   The Town Board of Trustees may remove members of the Town Planning
Commission for cause.
   (D)   Compensation. The members shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 11-02, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 33.066 OFFICERS; EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Officers. The Town Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson, a
Vice Chairperson and a Secretary, who shall serve until the first Monday of the
next May after their election. The Secretary need not be a member of the
Commission.
   (B)   Employees; compensation. The Commission may recommend that the Town
Board of Trustees employ engineers, attorneys, clerks and other help it deems
advisable to conduct any activities needed by the town regarding the
construction, maintenance or repair of any structure located in the town. The
Board shall establish the rate of any compensation required by this provision,
which is to be paid from the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 11-02, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 33.067 MEETINGS; LEGAL EXPENSES.
   (A)   Meetings. The Commission shall determine the time and place of its
regular meetings, and the Chairperson or any three members may call special
meetings of the Commission.
   (B)   Legal expenses. The necessary legal expenses shall be paid out of the
Town Treasury as other legal expenses of the town government are paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 33.068 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Planning Commission shall have all of the powers and duties
prescribed for it by state law and all other powers and duties now or hereafter
prescribed for it by any other provision of ordinance or law.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 33.069 ACTING AS ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Appointment as Zoning Commission. The Town Planning Commission is
hereby appointed the Town Zoning Commission, and the Town Planning Commission
shall have the powers of a zoning commission as provided by state law. Whether
exercising the powers of a planning commission or the powers of a zoning
commission, it shall be legally one board known as the Town Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Recommendation of zoning regulations. Exercising the powers of a
zoning commission, the Town Planning Commission shall recommend the boundaries
of the various zones and appropriate zoning regulations to be enforced therein.
It shall have all of the powers conferred upon a zoning commission by state law
and all powers which now or in the future may be granted by applicable state
law to such authorities.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4)
METROPOLITAN AREA PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.080 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees, is hereby
authorized and directed to appoint the four members of the Metropolitan
Planning Commission, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-1B-3) (Ord. 96-01, passed 2-8-1996)
§ 33.081 AGREEMENT WITH COUNTY.
   The town desires to avail itself of the provisions of 19 O.S. §§ 866.1
through 866.34 and enter into an agreement with the Board of County
Commissioners of the county for the organization of a Metropolitan Area
Planning Commission as provided in said statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-1B-1) (Ord. 96-01, passed 2-8-1996)
§ 33.082 FUNCTIONS.
   The Metropolitan Area Planning Commission, as constituted, shall substitute
for and replace the Regional Planning Commission of the town with respect to
the area within the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Area Planning Commission,
which includes, but is not limited to, land located within three miles of the
boundaries of the town, reserving, however, unto the town its Planning
Commission and zoning ordinances the jurisdiction within the boundaries of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1B-2) (Ord. 96-01, passed 2-8-1996)
REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.095 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Regional Planning Commission as constituted shall consist of five
members, to be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Trustees,
who shall also serve on the Municipal Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-2) (Ord. 95-03, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 33.096 POWERS.
   The Regional Planning Commission is hereby adopted with all of the powers,
duties and regional planning commission jurisdiction authorized under the laws
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-1) (Ord. 95-03, passed 11-13-1995)
§ 33.097 HEARING; ZONING RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Regional Planning Commission as constituted shall, within 30 days from
the publication of this subchapter, hold a public hearing for the purpose of
recommending comprehensive zoning ordinances and zoning district map boundaries
to the Board of Trustees of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1A-3) (Ord. 95-03, passed 11-13-1995)
CHAPTER 34: TAXES
Section
Sales Tax
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Taxpayer classification
   
34.04   Subsisting state permits
   
34.05   Taxes levied; effective dates
   
34.06   Purpose of revenues
   
34.07   Sales subject to tax; exemptions
   
34.08   Tax due date
   
34.09   Payment of tax; tax brackets
   
34.10   Tax constitutes debt
   
34.11   Collection by vendors
   
34.12   Returns, remittances and discounts
   
34.13   Delinquency; interest and penalties
   
34.14   Erroneous payment; claim for refund
   
34.15   Records confidential
   
34.16   Amendment approval
   
34.17   Provisions cumulative
Use Tax
   
34.30   Title
   
34.31   Definitions
   
34.32   Taxpayer classification
   
34.33   Subsisting state permits
   
34.34   Tax levied; transactions subject to tax
   
34.35   Exemptions
   
34.36   Purpose of revenues
   
34.37   Tax due date; manner of payment
   
34.38   Tax constitutes debt
   
34.39   Collection by retailers or vendors
   
34.40   Revocation of permit
   
34.41   Remunerative deductions allowed to vendors of other states
   
34.42   Delinquency; interest and penalties
   
34.43   Erroneous payment; claim for refund
   
34.44   Records confidential
   
34.45   Provisions cumulative
Utilities Tax
   
34.60   Tax levied
   
34.61   Application of tax; franchises excepted
   
34.62   Term of levy; monthly payment
   
34.63   Failure to pay
   
34.64   Tax constitutes lien
 
   
34.99   Penalty
SALES TAX
§ 34.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Quapaw Sales
Tax Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in
the State Sales Tax Code and 68 O.S. § 1352 are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this subchapter.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town or the official agency of the
state duly designated according to law or contract and authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax levied in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
§ 34.03 TAXPAYER CLASSIFICATION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for the purposes of the State
Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 34.04 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 34.05 TAXES LEVIED; EFFECTIVE DATES.
   (A)   Taxes levied; effective dates. The following town sales taxes, in the
total amount of 3%, shall be imposed and effective as indicated, unless
otherwise extended by a vote of the people.
      (1)   The first sales tax levied a $0.01 tax.
      (2)   Ord. 79-A levied a second $0.01 tax, effective November 15, 1979.
      (3)   Ord. 83-2 levied a third $0.01 tax, effective October 25, 1983.
   (B)   Effective date generally; voter approval. This subchapter became
effective as to each $0.01 tax after the approval of a majority of the
registered voters of the town voting on the ordinance in the manner prescribed
by 11 O.S. § 16-112.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 34.06 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is the purpose of the sales tax levied herein to provide revenues for the
support of the functions of the municipal government of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 34.07 SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS.
   The town sales tax shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds
of such sales as specified by the state statutes, and exemptions from such
taxes shall be as allowed pursuant to the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 34.08 TAX DUE DATE.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the State
Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7)
§ 34.09 PAYMENT OF TAX; TAX BRACKETS.
   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time and in
the form and manner provided for payment of the state sales tax. The bracket
system for the collection of the town sales tax by the Tax Collector shall be
the same as is hereafter adopted by agreement of the town and the Tax Collector
in the collection of both the town sales tax and the state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8)
§ 34.10 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty and interest due under this subchapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9)
§ 34.11 COLLECTION BY VENDORS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It is the duty of each and every vendor in the town to collect from
consumers or users the full amount of the tax levied by this subchapter or an
amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof. Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same
manner as other debts.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-10)
§ 34.12 RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances of the tax collected hereunder, and
shall be subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the State Sales Tax
Code for the collection of state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-11)
§ 34.13 DELINQUENCY; INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Delinquency; statute adopted.
      (1)   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter,
and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified
are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting
and paying the tax levied by this subchapter.
      (2)   The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if the
delinquency continues for a period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his
or her claim to any discount allowed under this subchapter.
   (B)   Waiver of interest and penalties.
      (1)   The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason
of a taxpayer’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived or
remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in
administration of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220.
      (2)   To accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable
provisions of said 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-12) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.14 ERRONEOUS PAYMENT; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   (A)   A refund of an erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied
may be made to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227.
   (B)   To accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions
of said 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-13)
§ 34.15 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files
concerning the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized
and declared.
   (B)   To protect the same, the provisions of the State Sales Tax Code, 68
O.S. § 205, and each subsection thereof are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to the administration of the town sales tax
as if herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-15)
§ 34.16 AMENDMENT APPROVAL.
   The people of the town, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance, hereby
authorize the Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of tax herein provided nor use to
which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the qualified
electors of the town as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-16)
§ 34.17 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
or all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-17)
USE TAX
§ 34.30 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Quapaw Use
Tax.”
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 34.31 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in
the State Use Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this subchapter.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town government or the official
agency of the state duly designated according to law or by contract authorized
by law to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
      TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2)
§ 34.32 TAXPAYER CLASSIFICATION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for the purposes of the State Use
Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3)
§ 34.33 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax Commission
pursuant to the State Use Tax Code are, for the purpose of this subchapter,
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4)
§ 34.34 TAX LEVIED; TRANSACTIONS SUBJECT TO TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the town tangible personal property
purchased or brought into the town an excise tax on the storage, use or other
consuming of such property within the town at the rate of 3% of the purchase
price of such property.
   (B)   Such tax shall be paid by every person storing, using or otherwise
consuming within the town tangible personal property purchased or brought into
the town. The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property within the town and shall be assessed to
only property purchased outside of the state. However, the tax levied herein
shall not be levied against tangible personal property intended solely for use
outside of the town but which is stored in the town pending shipment outside of
the town or which is temporarily retained in the town for the purpose of
fabrication, repair, testing, alteration, maintenance or other service.
   (C)   Any person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct
from such tax any local or municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or
services, provided that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount which
would have been due if the taxes imposed by the town had been levied on the
sale of such goods or services.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5)
§ 34.35 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions from the tax imposed by this subchapter shall be allowed pursuant
to the applicable provisions of the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7)
§ 34.36 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
town, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the Town
Board of Trustees for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as
authorized.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6)
§ 34.37 TAX DUE DATE; MANNER OF PAYMENT.
   The tax levied by this subchapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the State Use
Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-8)
§ 34.38 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalties and interests due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-9)
§ 34.39 COLLECTION BY RETAILERS OR VENDORS.
   (A)   Collection of tax.
      (1)   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without the state and making sales of tangible personal property from a
place of business outside of the state for use in the town shall collect the
use tax levied by this subchapter from the purchaser at the time of making such
sale and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form
prescribed by the Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission shall, by regulation,
require such receipt.
      (2)   Each retailer or vendor shall list with the Tax Commission the
names and addresses of all of his or her agents operating in the town and the
location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places
of business in the town.
   (B)   Vendors maintaining place of business outside of state.
      (1)   The Tax Commission may, in its discretion and upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within the state but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in the town, and by the out-of-state place
of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both
within and without the state and making sales of tangible personal property for
use in the town at such out-of-state place of business.
      (2)   Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to
collect such taxes by the Tax Commission in such a manner and subject to such
regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall
be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible
personal property sold, to his or her knowledge, for use within the town. Such
authority and permit may be cancelled at any time when the Tax Commission
considers that such tax can more effectively be collected from the person using
such property in the town.
      (3)   However, in all instances where such sales are made or completed by
delivery to the purchaser within the town by the retailer or vendor in such
retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or leased, but not by common
carrier, such sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to the
applicable town sales tax at the point of delivery, and the tax shall be
collected and reported under the taxpayer’s sales tax permit number
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-10)
§ 34.40 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in
the state, or both within and without the state, who is authorized to collect
the tax herein levied fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
subchapter, the State Use Tax Code or any orders, rules or regulations of the
Tax Commission, the Tax Commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for
in 68 O.S. § 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to such
retailer or vendor.
   (B)   If any such retailer or vendor is a corporation authorized to do
business in the state, then the Tax Commission may cancel the corporation’s
license to do business in the state after the notice and hearing above
provided, and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this subchapter, the State Use Tax Code or any
orders, rules or regulations of the Tax Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-11) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.41 REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED TO VENDORS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the State Use Tax Code, and
remittances of the tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by the Code for the collection of state use taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-12)
§ 34.42 DELINQUENCY; INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Assessment. 68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this
subchapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as
therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of
delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this subchapter, provided
that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
subchapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five days, then the retailer or vendor
shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount allowed under this subchapter.
   (B)   Waiver. The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by
reason of a retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied
may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or
remittance as applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68
O.S. § 220, and to accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable
provisions of said 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-13) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.43 ERRONEOUS PAYMENT; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   A refund of an erroneous payment of the town use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the state use tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said 68
O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-14)
§ 34.44 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State
Use Tax Code and each subsection thereof are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to the administration of the town use tax
as if herein set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-16)
§ 34.45 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
and all other taxing provisions of the town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-17)
UTILITIES TAX
§ 34.60 TAX LEVIED.
   From and after the effective date hereof, there is hereby levied and
assessed an annual tax of 2% upon the gross receipts from residential and
commercial sales of power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water in the town,
which tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation or
excise tax levied by the town, all as provided by 68 O.S. §§ 2601 through 2605.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. 04-01, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 34.61 APPLICATION OF TAX; FRANCHISES EXCEPTED.
   The tax levied under §
34.60 of this chapter shall, when levied, apply to all persons, firms,
associations or corporations engaged in the business of furnishing power,
light, heat, gas, electricity or water within the town limits, except that it
shall not apply to any person, firm, association or corporation operating under
a valid franchise from the town, nor to the town when providing any such
services.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 04-01, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 34.62 TERM OF LEVY; MONTHLY PAYMENT.
   The tax levied under §
34.60 of this chapter shall be levied for a term of not less than one year, and
shall be payable monthly and placed in the General Revenue Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 04-01, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 34.63 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when
levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from the town, and
in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax and all expenses of collecting the same,
including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. 04-01, passed 2-12-2004) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.64 TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all of the
assets located within the town of any person, firm or corporation engaged in
the business of selling power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water within
the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5) (Ord. 04-01, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Sales tax.
      (1)   Collection by vendors.
         (a)   A vendor who willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or
refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by §§
34.01 through
34.17 of this chapter, or who willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or
refuses to comply with the provisions, or who remits or rebates to a consumer
or user by whatever means, either directly or indirectly, all or any part of
the tax herein levied, or who makes in any form of advertising, verbally or
otherwise, any statement which infers that he or she is absorbing the tax or is
paying the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a
price including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
         (b)   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in
accordance with §§
34.01 through
34.17 of this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the town. Any
person, firm, corporation, joint venture or association which willfully or
intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be
collected or paid shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-10)
      (2)   Fraudulent returns. In addition to all civil penalties provided by
§§
34.01 through
34.17 of this chapter, the willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make
the reports and remittances herein required, or the making of any false or
fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or
portion thereof rightfully due under §§
34.01 through
34.17 of this chapter, shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof, the
offending taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-14)
   (C)   Use tax. In addition to all civil penalties provided by §§
34.30 through
34.45 of this chapter, the willful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make
the reports and remittances herein required or the making of any false or
fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or
portion thereof rightfully due under §§
34.30 through
34.45 of this chapter shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof, the
offending taxpayer shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code. Each day of noncompliance with §§
34.30 through
34.45 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-15)
CHAPTER 35: GENERAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Elections conducted by County Election Board
Finance and Purchasing Procedures
   
35.15   Depositories designated; deposit of funds
   
35.16   Purchasing procedures
   
35.17   Competitive bidding
   
35.18   Sale of surplus or obsolete materials and equipment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 ELECTIONS CONDUCTED BY COUNTY ELECTION BOARD.
   The town is opting out of the town meeting format of elections and
requesting the County Election Board to conduct any and all municipal elections
for said township upon the passage and filling of a proper election resolution
and until said ordinance may specially be repealed by the town.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 2-11-2014)
FINANCE AND PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 35.15 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Depositories; funds. All banks and all savings and loan associations
in the town which are incorporated under federal or state law are hereby
designated as depositories for the funds of the town. The Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall deposit daily all public funds received by him or her in such banks or
savings and loan associations.
   (B)   Funds secured. The deposits of the town shall be secured by the
Security for Local Public Deposits Act, being 62 O.S. §§ 517.1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 35.16 PURCHASING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Contractual services defined. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definition applies unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      CONTRACTUAL SERVICES.
         (a)   Services performed for the town by persons not in the employ of
the town, which may include the use of equipment or the furnishing of
commodities in connection with the services under express or implied contract.
         (b)   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES shall include travel, freight, express,
parcel post, postage, telephone, telegraph, utilities, rents, printing out,
binding, repairs, the alteration and maintenance of buildings, equipment,
streets, bridges and other physical facilities of the town and other services
performed for the town by persons not in the employ of the town.
   (B)   Purchase authorizations. All purchases of supplies, materials,
equipment and contractual services for the offices, departments and agencies of
the town government shall be made by the Town Board of Trustees or by other
town personnel in accordance with the purchase authorizations issued by the
Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Prior approval by Town Board. Every contract for or purchase of
supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services for more than $5,000
shall require the prior approval of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 35.17 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   Bidding procedure.
      (1)   Before any purchase of or contract for supplies, materials,
equipment or contractual services are made, except as otherwise provided in
division (B) below, the purchasing authority of the town shall submit to at
least three persons, firms or corporations dealing in and able to supply the
same, or to a smaller number if there are not three dealing in and able to
supply the same, the specifications and a request for quotation or invitation
to bid to give them the opportunity to bid, or shall publish notice of the
proposed purchase in a newspaper of general circulation within the town.
      (2)   The purchasing authority of the town shall favor a person, firm or
corporation in the town when this can be done without additional cost to the
town, but he or she shall submit requests for quotation to those outside of the
town when this may be necessary to secure bids or to create competitive
conditions, or when he or she thinks that by so doing, he or she can make a
saving for the town, and shall purchase from them when he or she can make a
saving for the town.
      (3)   All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a
designated time and place.
      (4)   The purchasing authority may repeatedly reject all bids and again
submit to the same or other persons, firms or corporations the request for
quotation or invitation to bid, or again publish notice of the proposed
purchase.
      (5)   Said purchasing authority may purchase from the bidder whose bid is
most advantageous to the town considering price, quality, date of delivery and
so on, and in the case of a tie, may purchase from one of those tying or may
divide the purchase among those tying, always accepting the bid or bids most
advantageous to the town.
   (B)   Purchasing without calling for bids. The following may be purchased
without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
      (1)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services whose cost
does not exceed $5,000 in a single transaction;
      (2)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
      (3)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers, including government surplus;
      (4)   Equipment to replace existing equipment which has become inoperable
when the Board of Trustees declares the purchase an emergency;
      (5)   Contractual services, including, but not limited to, natural gas,
electricity or telephone services purchased from a public utility at a price or
rate determined by the State Corporation Commission or other governmental
authority;
      (6)   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when
purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the State Purchasing
Agency or any other state agency hereafter authorized to regulate prices for
things purchased by the state, whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise; and
      (7)   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural, legal and medical services, unless competitive bidding is
required by applicable laws or regulations, such as certain federal grant
programs.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 03-02, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 35.18 SALE OF SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Competitive bidding required.
      (1)   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value
of more than $2,500 may be sold until the Town Board of Trustees has declared
them obsolete or surplus.
      (2)   Before the Town Board of Trustees sells any surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials or equipment, except as otherwise provided in division (B)
below, they shall be advertised for sale in a newspaper of general circulation
in the town or notice given in such other manner as the Board of Trustees deems
necessary to adequately reach prospective buyers to give them an opportunity to
make bids.
      (3)   All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a
designated time and place, except for when the sale is by auction.
      (4)   The Town Board of Trustees may repeatedly reject all bids and
advertise or give notice again. The Town Board of Trustees shall sell such
supplies, materials or equipment to the highest responsible bidder for cash. In
the case of a tie, the Board of Trustees may sell to either of the bidders
tying or may divide the sale among two or more tying, always selling to the
highest responsible bidder or bidders for cash.
   (B)   Competitive bidding not required. The Town Board of Trustees may sell
the following without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
      (1)   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total
value does not exceed $2,500 in a single transaction; and
      (2)   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the town for the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS; MONTHLY RATES
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
53.   GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
54.   ELECTRICAL WORK
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS; MONTHLY RATES
Section
General Utility Provisions
   
50.01   Applying for utility service
   
50.02   Rate and charge establishment
   
50.03   Billing
   
50.04   Late fee
   
50.05   Failure to pay; disconnection of service
Water and Sewer Provisions
   
50.20   Administration by Public Works Authority
   
50.21   Separate service connection required
   
50.22   Right reserved to interrupt service
   
50.23   Damaging equipment unlawful
   
50.24   Tampering with meters unlawful
   
50.25   Water meter deposit
   
50.26   Reconnection fee
   
50.27   Monthly rates
Cross-reference:
   Garbage collection, see
Ch. 53
   Sewer system, see
Ch. 52
   Water system, see
Ch. 51
GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 APPLYING FOR UTILITY SERVICE.
   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to have his, her or its premises
connected with any of the town’s utilities, water, sewer or trash collection
shall make application and sign a contract therefor upon a printed form to be
furnished for that purpose, and shall pay the regular fees and deposits for
installation of the service.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 50.02 RATE AND CHARGE ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Board of Trustees shall establish rates, charges, deposits and fees for
utility services by ordinance, motion or resolution, as the case may be. A copy
of the current rates and charges shall be available in the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 50.03 BILLING.
   (A)   All fees and charges in connection with any customer’s use of the
sanitary sewer system, the water facility system or the operation of the town’s
collection and disposal of refuse and garbage are billed in accordance with the
applicable rates set as provided in §
50.02 of this chapter.
   (B)   All fees and charges owed for any of these utility services shall be
billed on one monthly bill submitted to the customer each month.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 50.04 LATE FEE.
   The town shall, from and after the effective date hereof, charge a late fee
in the sum of $5, which will be added to any utility bill if not paid by the
due date of the bill.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 01-02, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 50.05 FAILURE TO PAY; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Actions authorized. Upon failure of any customer to pay any part of a
utility bill for any utility services by the due date on the bill, the
following actions and penalties may result.
      (1)   A late fee shall be charged pursuant to §
50.04 of this chapter and added to any utility bill which is not paid by the
due date of the bill.
      (2)   If the bill remains unpaid after the due date on the bill, then the
following actions may result.
         (a)   Authorized agents of the town may disconnect or discontinue any
or all utility services to the customer after providing written notice to the
customer of the intent of the town to disconnect or discontinue any or all of
the utility services.
         (b)   Authorized agents of the town may discontinue to furnish water
to any customer refusing or neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill
submitted after providing written notice to the customer of the intent of the
town to disconnect the water service.
      (3)   If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to
this section, then the town, or its agents, shall not reconnect or reestablish
the service until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is
paid, plus the penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or
expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service, with such charge to
reconnect service as set out in §
50.26 of this chapter.
   (B)   Payment of charges; shut-off fee.
      (1)   If town personnel go to a premises to shut off service and the
occupant pays the town personnel prior to his, her or their shutting off the
service, then there shall be added to the bill a sum for the trip made by the
town personnel to shut off such services.
      (2)   All bills, penalties and fees collected as herein specified shall
be paid to the Town Clerk- Treasurer. Nothing herein shall be construed as
preventing the town from instituting suit for the recovery of any delinquent
accounts.
   (C)   Payment of entire bill required. The Town Clerk-Treasurer may not
accept payment of a water bill without payment of the sewer service charge, nor
shall the Clerk-Treasurer accept payment of a sewer bill without payment of the
water bill. The failure to pay any utility bill in accordance with divisions
(A) and (B) above shall be grounds for discontinuing any or all of the utility
services furnished to the customer whose bill is delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
§ 50.20 ADMINISTRATION BY PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Lease of systems. The town has leased its water and sewer systems to
the Town Public Works Authority, which Authority has the power to govern,
operate, manage and set rates for all aspects of such services. Use of the term
TOWN or TOWN PERSONNEL with respect to any of the utilities of this title shall
also mean the Authority and its agents and officers as provided in leases and
trust indentures.
   (B)   New connections or reconnections. The Public Works Authority shall not
furnish utilities to new applicants, nor to applicants requesting reconnection
after being disconnected, for premises containing buildings intended for human
occupancy, whether residential, business or otherwise, unless the source of
water and sewer upon the premises is supplied by the Public Works Authority in
accordance with the bylaws of the Public Works Authority.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4)
§ 50.21 SEPARATE SERVICE CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Every separate premises supplied must have its own separate service
connection with the mains or lines, and the premises so supplied shall not be
allowed to supply water or sewer to any other premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.22 RIGHT RESERVED TO INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The town reserves the right to shut off the supply of water without notice
for repairs, extensions, the nonpayment of rates or any other reason, and no
liability shall attach therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6)
§ 50.23 DAMAGING EQUIPMENT UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to destroy or injure any water
pipe, hydrant, faucet, pole or other sewer or water equipment erected or placed
by or belonging to the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.24 TAMPERING WITH METERS UNLAWFUL.
   Tampering with the water meters or meter boxes of the town, placing any
bypass connection on or around the meters or using any other device tending to
interfere with the proper registration of the same is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.25 WATER METER DEPOSIT.
   The town shall, from and after the effective date hereof, charge a deposit
in the sum of $100 for any water meter which is set for residential or
commercial use. The $100 deposit shall be per residential or commercial unit;
for example, if two residential units are on one meter, then the deposit shall
be $200.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 01-02, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 50.26 RECONNECTION FEE.
   The town shall, from and after the effective date hereof, charge a
reconnection fee in the sum of $100 for neglecting to pay all or any part of a
utility bill submitted after providing written notice to the customer of the
intent of the town to disconnect the water service.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 09-03, passed 6-9-2009)
§ 50.27 MONTHLY RATES.
   (A)   Generally. As long as the Authority has an outstanding indebtedness on
a loan made or insured by the USDA Rural Development, the rate schedules in
divisions (B), (C) and (D) below shall not be changed without the prior written
consent of the State Director of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Rural
Utility Services.
   (B)   Sewer rate schedule. The following monthly sewer rate schedule, as
adopted by the governing Board of the Authority, is hereby approved:
 
Amount                 Charge
First 1,000 gallons    $18 minimum bill
Next 2,000 gallons     $4 per 1,000 gallons
Next 2,000 gallons     $4.50 per 1,000 gallons
All over 5,000 gallons $5 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   Residential water rate schedule. The following monthly residential
water rate schedule, as adopted by the governing Board of the Authority, is
hereby approved.
 
Amount                 Charge
First 1,000 gallons    $24 minimum bill
Next 2,000 gallons     $4.75 per 1,000 gallons
Next 2,000 gallons     $5.25 per 1,000 gallons
All over 5,000 gallons $5.75 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (D)   Commercial water rate schedule. The following monthly commercial water
rate schedule, as adopted by the governing Board of the Authority, is hereby
approved:
 
Amount                 Charge
First 1,000 gallons    $30 minimum bill
Next 2,000 gallons     $4.75 per 1,000 gallons
Next 2,000 gallons     $5.25 per 1,000 gallons
All over 5,000 gallons $5.75 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Res. 17-01, passed 5-10-2011)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Connection requirement; exception
   
51.02   Application and contract for connection to mains
   
51.03   Compliance; denial of service
   
51.04   Tap fee
   
51.05   Water meter deposit
   
51.06   Meter failure; estimate of bill
Water Shortage Emergencies
   
51.20   Declaration of emergency
   
51.21   Water usage restrictions
   
51.22   Emergency proclamation and notice; publication
   
51.23   Grievances with restrictions
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Plumbers and plumbing, see
Ch. 114
   Water rates and provisions, see
Ch. 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CONNECTION REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION.
   Each occupied residence and each occupied business or commercial building in
the town shall connect to the town’s water system within 60 days after the
adoption of this section, provided, however, that such service shall be brought
within at least 150 feet of the residence or business property line.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 94-02, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 APPLICATION AND CONTRACT FOR CONNECTION TO MAINS.
   (A)   Application for connection. Any person desiring to make a connection
to a water main of the town is required to file a written application with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer to make the connection.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)
   (B)   Contract for water service. The application for water service shall
contain a contract on the part of the person making the application:
      (1)   To pay for the water consumed at the rate prescribed by ordinance
at the time the water is consumed;
      (2)   To recognize the right of the town to change the rate by ordinance
at any time;
      (3)   To recognize the right of the town to temporarily discontinue water
service at any time without notice to the consumer to install, repair or remove
a water meter or for any other proper cause;
      (4)   Stating that the contract is subject to all of the ordinances in
effect at the time of making the contract, and to those which may be passed and
go into effect thereafter;
      (5)   Stating that the town shall not be responsible for any damage by
water or other causes resulting from defective plumbing or appliances, and the
fact that an agent of the town has inspected plumbing or appliances shall not
be pleaded as a basis for recovery in a case of damage to the premises from
defective plumbing or appliances installed by the owner or occupant of such
premises;
      (6)   Providing that the town shall not be liable for damages resulting
from the interruption or failure of the supply of water regardless of the cause
thereof, and that such failure for any reasonable period of time shall not be
held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the town, nor relieve
the consumer from performing the obligations of his or her contract; and
      (7)   Providing that the water deposit, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, may be retained by the town and applied by the town on any unpaid
water bill of the consumer, and further providing that unless the water deposit
is claimed by the consumer after the consumer ceases to use the water or after
the water is turned off, the consumer forfeits all right, title or interest in
the deposit in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 COMPLIANCE; DENIAL OF SERVICE.
   Any person, firm or corporation which connects to the water mains of the
town in violation of this subchapter, other ordinances of the town or the laws
of the state will be denied further water service until such ordinances and
laws are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 TAP FEE.
   The following fees shall be charged for making water taps.
 
Size       Fee
3/4-inch   $300
1-inch     $400
1-1/2-inch $500
 
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)
Editor’s note:
   Per motion dated 4-9-2002
§ 51.05 WATER METER DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Any person who desires to use water shall pay to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer as a meter deposit the amount which is established in §
50.25 of this code.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish classifications of customers, such
as residences, mobile homes and various types of businesses, for different
deposit requirements.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)
§ 51.06 METER FAILURE; ESTIMATE OF BILL.
   (A)   Meters lost or injured, fault of owner or occupant.
      (1)   In all cases where meters or meter boxes are lost, injured or
broken by the willful action, carelessness or negligence of the owners or
occupants of a premises, they shall be replaced or repaired at the expense of
such owners or occupants.
      (2)   In the case of nonpayment, the water shall be cut off and will not
be turned on until such charges are paid.
   (B)   Failure to register properly. In the event of a meter getting out of
order or failing to register properly, the consumer shall be charged on an
estimate made by the Office Manager of the average monthly consumption during
the last three months when the meter was in good condition or from what he or
she may consider to be the most reliable data at his or her command.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5)
WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCIES
§ 51.20 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity, or to a failure
of equipment or material, the Mayor is hereby authorized to restrict or
prohibit the use of water from the town’s water system.
   (B)   An emergency exists whenever the Mayor reasonably determines that the
town’s water system is unable, or will within 60 days become unable, to supply
the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof, including adequate
fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
§ 51.21 WATER USAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the Mayor shall
issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with particularity
an order restricting the use of water from the town system. The order may:
      (1)   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
      (2)   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety. The
order may be revised from time to time as the Mayor deems necessary.
   (B)   A duly-proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for 30 days or until such time as the Mayor
shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has ended,
whichever is shorter, unless the Board, by resolution approved by a majority of
all of its members, votes to terminate the emergency proclamation upon a
different date.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 EMERGENCY PROCLAMATION AND NOTICE; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The proclamation required by §
51.21 of this chapter shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the town, or if there is no such newspaper in which the proclamation may be
published, then within 24 hours after the emergency arises, publication shall
be by posting a copy of the proclamation in ten prominent places in the town.
The emergency shall be in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial
compliance with this section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   (B)   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure so as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including by electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than those required in division
(A) above are used, then the proclamation shall be republished in accordance
with division (A) above within 24 hours of the first notice.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
§ 51.23 GRIEVANCES WITH RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the Mayor shall have
the right to present the matter to the next regular or special meeting of the
Town Board of Trustees or to any emergency session called to discuss the water
emergency. The Board of Trustees may exempt such aggrieved person wholly or in
part from compliance with the proclamation order upon a showing that compliance
creates an immediate threat to the person’s health or safety.
   (B)   The ruling of the Board of Trustees by a majority vote of all of its
members shall be final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of the
proclamation. Until and unless the action of the Mayor is modified or revoked
by an action of the Board of Trustees, all water users shall be bound by the
proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or entity violating any provision of §
51.01 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99(A) of this code, and each day that any violation of any provision of §
51.01 of this chapter is allowed to exist shall be and constitutes a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
   (C)   Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or
permits others under his or her supervision, custody or control to violate any
term of a duly-published proclamation as per §§
51.20 through
51.23 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any violation of the
provisions of the Mayor’s proclamation or the action of the Board shall be
punishable as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
(Ord. 94-02, passed 4-11-1994)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   New sewer and connection requirements
   
52.03   Tap fee
   
52.04   Failure to pay
   
52.05   Discharge requirements; rejection of wastes
   
52.06   Review and approval by approving authority
   
52.07   Existing industrial user requirements
Discharge Regulations
   
52.20   Permitted discharges
   
52.21   Prohibited discharge areas
   
52.22   Prohibited discharges
Treatment and Monitoring
   
52.35   Traps
   
52.36   Building sewers
   
52.37   Sampling and testing procedures
Inspections and Violations
   
52.50   Right of entry
   
52.51   Notice of violation
   
52.52   Continuing prohibited discharges unlawful
   
52.53   Disconnection of service
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Plumbers and plumbing, see
Ch. 114
   Sewer rates and provisions, see
Ch. 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Public Works Authority or its duly-authorized
representative.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen by weight,
expressed in milligrams per liter, which is utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory conditions for five days
at a temperature of 20°C.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE LATERAL and HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. A measure of the oxygen-consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in the water or wastewater, expressed in
milligrams per liter, as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant
in a specific test, but not differentiating between stable and unstable organic
matter and thus not necessarily correlating with biochemical oxygen demand.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A manhole giving access to a building sewer at some point
before the building sewer discharge mixes with other discharges in the public
sewer.
   CONTROL POINT. A point of access to a course of discharge before the
discharge mixes with other discharges in the public sewer.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from the preparing, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, processing, storing and selling
of food products and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade or business from the development of any natural resource,
or any mixture of such waste with water or normal wastewater, or distinct from
normal wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE. The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the town sewerage system.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER or mg/l. The same as parts per million, and is a
weight-to-volume ratio; the MILLIGRAM PER LITER value multiplied by the factor
8.34 shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, ditch, lake or other body of
surface water or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater, excluding industrial wastewater,
discharged by a person into sanitary sewers, and in which the average
concentration of total suspended solids is not more than 200 milligrams per
liter and the BOD is not more than 200 milligrams per liter.
   OVERLOAD. The imposition of organic or hydraulic loading on a treatment
facility in excess of its engineered design capacity.
   PERSON. A corporation, organization, government or governmental subdivision
or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association or any other
legal entity.
   pH. The logarithm, base ten, of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A pipe or conduit carrying wastewater or unpolluted drainage
in which the owners of abutting properties shall have the use, subject to
control by the town.
   SANITARY SEWER. A public sewer which conveys domestic wastewater, industrial
wastes or a combination of both, and into which stormwater, surface water,
groundwater and other unpolluted wastes are not intentionally passed.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds more than
five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow during normal operation
for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
latest edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater as prepared, approved and published jointly
by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association
and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A public sewer which carries stormwater, surface water and
drainage and into which domestic wastewater or industrial wastes are not
intentionally passed.
   STORMWATER. Rainfall or any other form of precipitation.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Water and Wastewater Superintendent of the town or his
or her duly- authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids, measured in milligrams per liter, which either
float on the surface of or are in suspension in water, wastewater or other
liquids, and which are largely removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   TO DISCHARGE. To deposit, conduct, drain, emit, throw, run, allow to seep or
otherwise release or dispose of, or to allow, permit or suffer any of these
acts or emissions.
   TRAP. A device designed to skim, settle or otherwise remove grease, oil,
sand, flammable wastes or other harmful substances.
   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER. Water containing:
      (1)   No free or emulsified grease or oil;
      (2)   No acids or alkalies;
      (3)   No phenols or other substances producing taste or odor in the
receiving water;
      (4)   No toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state or
solution;
      (5)   No noxious or otherwise obnoxious or odorous gases;
      (6)   Not more than an insignificant amount, in milligrams per liter,
each of suspended solids and BOD, as determined by the State Health Department;
and
      (7)   Color not exceeding 50 units as measured by the platinum-cobalt
method of determination as specified in Standard Methods.
   WASTE. Rejected, unutilized or superfluous substances in liquid, gaseous or
solid form resulting from domestic, agricultural or industrial activities.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with
any groundwater, surface water and stormwater which may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. Includes all facilities for collecting, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any town-owned facilities, devices and
structures used for receiving, processing and treating wastewater, industrial
waste and sludge from the sanitary sewers.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or human-made channel in which a flow of water
occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1)
§ 52.02 NEW SEWER AND CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with local and state requirements.
      (1)   The connection of a building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the town’s building and plumbing codes and other
applicable rules and regulations of the town.
      (2)   All new sewer lines will be constructed in accordance with the
State Health Department’s construction and plumbing codes.
      (3)   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Department of Health Regulations.
   (B)   Mandatory connection when available. When a public sewer becomes
available within 150 feet, the building sewer shall be connected to the sewer
within 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 TAP FEE.
   The sewer tap fee as adopted by the governing board of the Public Works
Authority is $450 per connection.
(Res. 15-01, passed 6-9-2015)
§ 52.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   In addition to the sanctions provided by this chapter, the town is entitled
to exercise the sanctions provided for by other ordinances of the town for
failure to pay the bill for water and sanitary sewer service when due.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-15)
§ 52.05 DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS; REJECTION OF WASTES.
   (A)   Verification of suitable treatment. The approving authority shall
verify, prior to discharge, that wastes authorized to be discharged will
receive suitable treatment within the provisions of the laws, regulations,
ordinances, rules and orders of federal, state and local governments.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4)
   (B)   Requirements; rejection conditions.
      (1)   Conditions for setting requirements. If discharges or proposed
discharges to public sewers may deleteriously affect wastewater facilities,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, create a hazard to life or health or
create a public nuisance, then the approving authority shall require:
         (a)   Pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
         (b)   Control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
         (c)   Payment to cover the cost of handling and treating the wastes.
      (2)   Determination. The approving authority is entitled to determine
whether a discharge or proposed discharge is included under division (B)(1)
above.
      (3)   Rejection of wastes. The approving authority shall reject wastes
when:
         (a)   It determines that a discharge or proposed discharge is included
under division (B)(1) above; and
         (b)   The discharge does not meet the requirements of division (B)(1)
above.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5)
§ 52.06 REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY APPROVING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Review and approval. If pretreatment or control is required, then the
approving authority shall review and approve the design and installation of the
equipment and processes.
   (B)   Conformance with laws. The design and installation of equipment and
processes must conform to all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances and other
laws.
   (C)   Responsibility. Any person responsible for discharges requiring
pretreatment, flow equalizing or other facilities shall provide and maintain
the facilities in effective operating condition at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 EXISTING INDUSTRIAL USER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Conditions for continuance. A person discharging industrial waste into
public sewers prior to the effective date hereof may continue without penalty
so long as he or she:
      (1)   Does not increase the quantity or quality of discharge without the
permission of the approving authority;
      (2)   Has discharged the industrial waste at least 30 days prior to the
effective date hereof; and
      (3)   Applies for and is granted a permit not later than 30 days after
the effective date hereof.
   (B)   Requirements for permit.
      (1)   The town may grant a permit to discharge to a person meeting all of
the requirements of division (A) above, provided that such person:
         (a)   Submits an application within 90 days after the effective date
hereof on a form supplied by the approving authority;
         (b)   Secures approval by the approving authority of plans and
specifications for pretreatment facilities, when required;
         (c)   Provides a sampling point subject to the provisions of this
chapter and the approval of the approving authority; and
         (d)   Has complied with all requirements for agreements or
arrangements, including, but not limited to, provisions for:
            1.   Payment of charges;
            2.   Installation and operation of pretreatment facilities; and
            3.   Sampling and analysis to determine quantity and strength.
      (2)   A person applying for a new discharge shall:
         (a)   Meet all conditions of division (B)(1) above; and
         (b)   Secure a permit prior to discharging any waste.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-10) Penalty, see §
52.99
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 52.20 PERMITTED DISCHARGES.
   Unless an exception is granted by the approving authority, the public
sanitary sewer system shall be used by all persons discharging:
   (A)   Wastewater;
   (B)   Industrial waste;
   (C)   Polluted liquids; or
   (D)   Unpolluted waters or liquids.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4)
§ 52.21 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE AREAS.
   Unless authorized by the approving authority, no person may deposit or
discharge any waste included in §
52.20 of this chapter on public or private property into or adjacent to any:
   (A)   Natural outlet;
   (B)   Watercourse;
   (C)   Storm sewer; or
   (D)   Other area within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Injurious wastes.
      (1)   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which by itself
or by interaction with other wastes may:
         (a)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
         (b)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
         (c)   Create a hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater plant
effluent.
      (2)   All discharges shall conform to the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   All discharges shall be prohibited except for those which meet the
criteria for “domestic wastewater.” BOD concentration shall not exceed 200
milligrams per liter, and suspended solids shall not exceed 200 milligrams per
liter.
      (4)   All industrial discharges are prohibited. If an industrial user
should desire to make use of the sewerage system, then an industrial cost
recovery system will be initiated in accordance with the regulations at that
time to compensate for the use of the system.
      (5)   Any new connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portion of the sewer system shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Garbage.
      (1)   No person may discharge garbage into the public sewers unless it is
shredded to a degree whereby all particles can be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in the public sewers. Particles greater than
one-half inch in any dimension are prohibited.
      (2)   The approving authority is entitled to review and approve the
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower or greater.
   (C)   Stormwater and unpolluted drainage. No person may discharge to public
sanitary sewers:
      (1)   Unpolluted stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff or
subsurface drainage;
      (2)   Unpolluted cooling water;
      (3)   Unpolluted industrial process waters; or
      (4)   Other unpolluted drainage.
   (D)   Liquids or vapors of high temperature.
      (1)   No person may discharge liquid or vapor having a temperature of
150°F, 65°C, or any substance which causes the temperature of the total
wastewater treatment plant influent to increase at a rate of 10°F or more per
hour or a combined total increase of plant influent temperature to 110°F.
      (2)   In compliance with state law, the approving authority may designate
storm sewers and other watercourses into which unpolluted drainage described in
division (D)(1) above may be discharged.
   (E)   Radioactive wastes. No person may discharge radioactive wastes or
isotopes into public sewers without the permission of the approving authority.
The approving authority may establish, in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations, regulations for the discharge of radioactive wastes into
public sewers.
   (F)   Substances capable of causing the impairment of facilities.
      (1)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance capable of
causing:
         (a)   Obstruction of the flow in sewers;
         (b)   Interference with the operation of treatment plant processes or
facilities; or
         (c)   The excessive loading of treatment facilities.
      (2)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance which may:
         (a)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner so as
to clog or partially clog the sewers;
         (b)   Overload skimming and grease-handling equipment;
         (c)   Pass to receiving waters without being effectively treated by
normal wastewater treatment processes due to the nonamenability of the
substance to bacterial action; or
         (d)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
      (3)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance which is:
         (a)   Not amenable to treatment by the processes and facilities
employed; or
         (b)   Is amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharges to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) Penalty, see §
52.99
TREATMENT AND MONITORING
§ 52.35 TRAPS.
   (A)   Discharges requiring. Discharges requiring a trap include:
      (1)   Grease or wastes containing grease in excessive amounts;
      (2)   Oil;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Flammable wastes; and
      (5)   Other harmful ingredients.
   (B)   Duties of responsible person. Any person responsible for discharges
requiring a trap shall at his or her own expense and as required by the
approving authority:
      (1)   Provide equipment and facilities of a type and capacity approved by
the approving authority;
      (2)   Locate the trap in a manner which provides ready and easy
accessibility for cleaning and inspection; and
      (3)   Maintain the trap in an effective operating condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.36 BUILDING SEWERS.
   Any person responsible for discharges through a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall at his or her own expense and as required by the
approving authority:
   (A)   Install an accessible and safely-located control manhole;
   (B)   Install meters and other appurtenances to facilitate the observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastes; and
   (C)   Maintain the equipment and facilities.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-8) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.37 SAMPLING AND TESTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Procedure for sampling. Sampling shall be conducted according to
customarily-accepted methods which reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and determine the existence of hazards to health, life, limb and
property.
   (B)   Examination and analysis. The examination and analysis of the
characteristics of waters and wastes required by this chapter shall be:
      (1)   Conducted in accordance with Standard Methods; and
      (2)   Determined from suitable samples taken at the control manhole
provided or at another control point authorized by the approving authority.
   (C)   BOD and suspended solids. BOD and suspended solids shall be determined
from composite sampling, except to detect unauthorized discharges.
   (D)   Selection of independent firm. The town may select an independent firm
or laboratory to determine flow, BOD and suspended solids.
   (E)   Time of sampling. The town is entitled to select the time of sampling
at its sole discretion so long as at least annual samples are taken.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-9)
INSPECTIONS AND VIOLATIONS
§ 52.50 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Authority of town officials. The approving authority and other duly-
authorized employees of the town or authority who bear proper credentials and
identification are entitled to enter any public or private property at any
reasonable time for the purpose of enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   Safety precautions. Anyone acting under this authority shall observe
the establishment’s rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security
and fire protection.
   (C)   Purposes for entry. The approving authority and other duly-authorized
employees of the town or authority who bear proper credentials and
identification are entitled to enter all private properties through which the
town holds a negotiated easement for the purpose of:
      (1)   Inspection, observation, measurement sampling or repair;
      (2)   The maintenance of any portion of the sewerage system lying within
such easements; or
      (3)   Conducting any other authorized activity.
   (D)   Compliance with negotiated easements. All activities shall be
conducted in full accordance with the terms of the negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (E)   Inquiries restricted. No persons acting under the authority of this
section may inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries, beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kinds and sources of discharge to the public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-11) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.51 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The town shall serve persons discharging in violation of this chapter with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for satisfactory compliance.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-13)
§ 52.52 CONTINUING PROHIBITED DISCHARGES UNLAWFUL.
   No person may continue discharging in violation of this chapter beyond the
time limit provided in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-14) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.53 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Conditions for disconnection. The town may terminate water and
wastewater disposal service and disconnect an industrial customer from the
system when:
      (1)   Acids or chemicals which cause damage to sewer lines or treatment
processes are released to the sewer, causing the rapid deterioration of these
structures or interfering with the proper conveyance and treatment of
wastewater;
      (2)   A governmental agency informs the town that the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to
a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is delivering wastewater to
the town system which cannot be sufficiently treated or which requires
treatment that is not provided by the town as normal domestic treatment; or
      (3)   The industrial customer:
         (a)   Discharges industrial waste or wastewater which is in violation
of the permit issued by the approving authority;
         (b)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
         (c)   Fails to pay the monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer
services when due; or
         (d)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers.
   (B)   Authority of town. If service is discontinued pursuant to division (A)
(2) above, then the town shall:
      (1)   Disconnect the customer;
      (2)   Supply the customer with the governmental agency’s report and
provide the customer with all pertinent information; and
      (3)   Continue the disconnection until such time as the industrial
customer provides additional pretreatment or other facilities designed to
remove the objectionable characteristics from his or her industrial waste or
complies with the town’s payment procedures.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-12) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Termination of services. A person who continues prohibited
discharges may be subject to the termination of water and sewer services.
      (2)   Remedial action. In addition to proceeding under the authority of
division (B)(1) above, the town is entitled to pursue all other legal remedies
to which it is entitled, including a fine as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-16)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Garbage service required
   
53.03   Fees
   
53.04   Contract for collection and disposal work
   
53.05   Approved disposal methods
   
53.06   Scheduled collections
   
53.07   Garbage placement prohibitions
   
53.08   Collection container requirements
   
53.09   Bulk trash receptacle regulations
   
53.10   Meddling with collection containers prohibited
   
53.11   Excessive, heavy or hazardous material disposal
   
53.12   Open burning restrictions
   
53.13   Inspection of premises for compliance
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of Ottawa County.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes except for sewage and body wastes, including
all meat, vegetable and fruit refuse and the carcasses of small animals and
fowl, from any premises within the town limits.
   PERSON. Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership or other entity.
   PREMISES. Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles or watercraft, or
parts thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Tin cans, bottles and papers from any premises within the town
limits.
   RUBBLE. Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden or metal
refuse-like materials which are longer, larger or heavier than refuse.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
§ 53.02 GARBAGE SERVICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the town, it is the
duty of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any
premises located on a regularly-established garbage route to notify the Town
Garbage Department at the beginning of such occupancy and to request, accept
and use the garbage pickup and collection service.
   (B)   The failure of any owner, rental agent or occupant of such premises to
make such request shall not prevent nor in any way impair or impede the town
from adding the address of such premises to the proper garbage collection route
records, providing such service and otherwise enforcing by appropriate action
the regulatory measures.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 FEES.
   There is charged, assessed and collected from each residential and
commercial unit such amounts as set by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-7)
§ 53.04 CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL WORK.
   (A)   Authority to enter into contractual obligation limited. The town shall
have the authority to enter into contractual obligations with those who wish to
engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for compensation
in the town. The town shall be limited to contracting for such services only
with persons having the proper equipment, meeting State Department of Health
requirements and having sufficient personnel to collect and dispose of refuse
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and further provided that
the method of disposal contracted for must be in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Application for contract; bidding. Every person desiring to engage in
the collection and disposal of refuse shall have the right to make written
application to the town, and shall make written application setting forth the
name of such person, the residence address thereof or the address of the place
of business, a description of the equipment to be used in the collection or
disposal of such refuse, the place of disposal and the method of disposal to be
practiced. Upon the approval of such applications, all bids may be considered
at some time prior to the expiration of the then-existing contract, if any.
   (C)   Denial of application; hearing. Any person whose application has been
denied may request and shall be granted a hearing before the Town Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   Contract required for collection. It is unlawful for any person who
does not do so under a contract with the town to engage in the business of
refuse collection or refuse disposal for compensation in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-6) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 APPROVED DISPOSAL METHODS.
   The disposal of garbage and rubbish shall be by an approved method of
incineration, not open burning, or by landfill and daily cover.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-8)
§ 53.06 SCHEDULED COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The town or its authorized representative shall collect from all areas
of the town upon a schedule as approved by the Town Board.
   (B)   It is the duty of any person in possession or control of any premises
to place the containers required by this chapter in a location easily
accessible to the collector as directed by the County Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 GARBAGE PLACEMENT PROHIBITIONS.
   The placing of garbage, rubbish or any refuse material in any street or
alley within the town limits or the disposal of such refuse at any place within
the town limits is prohibited, except at such place as may be directed by the
County Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 COLLECTION CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Portable container requirements.
      (1)   It is the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning,
managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises, or any place where
garbage or rubbish accumulates, to provide on any premises and at all times to
maintain in good order and repair containers for refuse, which refuse shall be
placed in plastic trash bags and stored for pickup in any container easily
accessible for pickup.
      (2)   All containers shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation
of any substances remaining attached to the insides of such containers which
would attract flies, mosquitoes or any other insects.
   (B)   Location requirements.
      (1)   All containers shall be kept in a convenient location at curbside
for collection, as designated by the Town Board of Trustees, whereby collectors
can obtain the same without going into buildings, garages, locked gates or
fenced yards with dogs.
      (2)   All containers and grounds immediately around the same shall be
kept in a safe and sanitary condition at all times.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 BULK TRASH RECEPTACLE REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all bulk trash receptacles placed
or maintained within the town limits, and by the town, its agent or contractor.
   (A)   Trash receptacles are limited to use by actual residents of the town.
   (B)   The trash or waste deposited in said receptacles is limited to normal
household trash, including not more than two household furnishing items. The
dumping of commercial or industrial waste products, the construction materials
of any construction contractor, white goods such as refrigerators, freezers or
air conditioners, grass clippings, limbs or twigs is specifically prohibited.
   (C)   No tires, batteries or materials containing asbestos or any other
hazardous material as defined by the statutes of the state may be deposited in
the trash or waste receptacle.
   (D)   No rocks or concrete may be placed in the trash receptacle.
   (E)   No metal appliances, metal products or metal waste, if the same is in
excess of five pounds, may be placed in the waste receptacle.
   (F)   The deposit of animal carcasses in the waste receptacle is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) (Ord. 97-02, passed 8-11-1997) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 MEDDLING WITH COLLECTION CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   Meddling with refuse containers or in any way pilfering, scattering contents
or junking in any alley or street within the town limits is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 EXCESSIVE, HEAVY OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Excessive or heavy accumulations; disposal by owner.
      (1)   Places having rubble and excessive accumulations of garbage and
rubbish may be excluded from service. Such accumulations shall then be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge, provided
that the owner or person having such accumulations in charge, or the collection
agent, shall secure permission from the County Health Officer for the removal
and disposal.
      (2)   Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken concrete, ashes, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees and other bulky, heavy materials shall be
disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling the same under
the direction of the County Health Officer.
   (B)   Large animal carcasses. The carcasses of animals such as cows, horses
and mules shall be removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or
person having the same in charge and by the method directed by the County
Health Officer.
   (C)   Offensive or hazardous materials. The manure from cow lots, horse
stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts and other animal or fowl pens, the waste
oils from garages or filling stations and materials considered hazardous or
dangerous shall be removed and disposed of at the expense of the person
controlling the same in the manner and by the method directed by the County
Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5)
§ 53.12 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   There shall be no open burning on a premises unless the operations are
carried out in an approved- type incinerator or approval is obtained from the
County Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 INSPECTION OF PREMISES FOR COMPLIANCE.
   It is the duty of the County Health Officer, and he or she is hereby
directed, to make all necessary inspections and investigations of any and all
premises to see that the terms of this chapter are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-9)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-10)
   (B)   A violation of any of the stated regulations in §
53.09 of this chapter shall subject the violator to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4)
(Ord. 97-02, passed 8-11-1997)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICAL WORK
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Definition
   
54.02   Scope
   
54.03   Liability for damages
   
54.04   Administration by Electrical Commission
   
54.05   Interference with Commission unlawful
   
54.06   Appeals from Commission decisions
   
54.07   Installation by residential property owner
   
54.08   Electrician registration requirements
Permits
   
54.20   Permit required; exception
   
54.21   Application
   
54.22   Fees
   
54.23   Issuance
   
54.24   Failure to commence or suspension of work after issuance
   
54.25   Variances
Inspections
   
54.40   Right of entry by Commission
   
54.41   Inspections generally
   
54.42   Work to be concealed, approval
   
54.43   Completed work, approval
   
54.44   Abatement or discontinuance of service with defective installation
 
   
54.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   National Electrical Code adopted by town, see
Ch. 150
   Town Planning Commission, see
Ch. 33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL INSPECTION. Any reference to ELECTRICAL INSPECTION in the
Electrical Code adopted by the town in §
150.01(B)(3) of this code or elsewhere in this code shall mean the Planning
Commission as set forth in §
33.065 of this code or its designee, hereinafter referred to as COMMISSION.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 54.02 SCOPE.
   Any building located in the town which is hooked up to any electrical
distribution system.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 54.03 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve the liability of any person
owning, operating or installing any electrical wires, appliances, apparatus,
construction or equipment, or causing the same or any part thereof to be done,
for damages to anyone injured by any defect therein or any negligent doing or
installation thereof, nor shall the town or any agent thereof be held liable by
reason of any inspection herein authorized and made by reason of such authority
or by reason of the certificate of inspection and approval issued by the
Commission.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 54.04 ADMINISTRATION BY ELECTRICAL COMMISSION.
   The office of the Electrical Commission shall mean the Planning Commission
as described in §
33.065 of this code or its designated official as from time to time may be
appointed by the town.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 54.05 INTERFERENCE WITH COMMISSION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Commission in the
discharge of its duties.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06 APPEALS FROM COMMISSION DECISIONS.
   An appeal from any decision of the Commission of the town shall be to the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 54.07 INSTALLATION BY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY OWNER.
   All electric installed by the owner and current resident of the property
involved shall comply with the requirements of this chapter, and in such event,
the word OWNER shall be substituted for the word ELECTRICIAN throughout this
chapter.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08 ELECTRICIAN REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any electrical work
within the town unless he or she is registered by the state as an electrical
contractor or a journeyperson electrician in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any electrical contractor to employ
any person to perform electrical work unless such employer is himself or
herself a state-registered electrical contractor. No journeyperson electrician
shall perform any electrical work within the town unless he or she is in the
employ of a registered electrical contractor.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to an electrician’s helper working under
the direct supervision of a registered electrical contractor or journeyperson
electrician, nor to a homeowner performing work under a permit issued in
accordance with §
54.07.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
PERMITS
§ 54.20 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin or perform any work on any
electrical installation for light, heat or power within the town without first
obtaining a permit to do so from the town. Permits shall not be required,
however, for maintenance work or repair work if the wiring is not altered.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.21 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring a permit by this subchapter shall make written
application therefor to the Commission on blank forms furnished by it. Such
application shall be in duplicate and indicate such facts as the Commission may
desire, such as the nature of the electrical work.
   (B)   The Commission may require that plans be submitted by the applicant
for a permit indicating the channeling and pocketing of buildings for
electrical conductors, showing the locations of all switches and stating the
maximum number of lamps at each outlet and any other information that it may
require. These plans shall be retained in the office of the Commission.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 54.22 FEES.
   (A)   Before any permit approved by the Commission shall be valid, a basic
fee of $10 for residential and $20 for commercial and industrial shall be paid
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, together with the additional following fees.
      (1)   General.
Type Fee
Type                                Fee
Air conditioner feeder              $2
Electric dryer                      $2
Electric heating unit               $2
Electric oven and/or range          $2
Electric water heater               $2
Inspection fees, residential        $10
Inspection fees, commercial         $20
Inspection fees, industrial         $20
Mobile home hookup                  $5
Motor, 5 hp or less                 $1
Motor, 6 hp through 10 hp           $3
Motor, 11 hp through 30 hp          $6
Motor, 31 hp and over               $10
Outlet, each additional after 2     $0.25
Outlet, first 2 or less             $5
Outside pole light over 6 feet tall $1
3-wire meter and/or panel           $5
Welding outlet                      $2
 
      (2)   Signs.
 
Type                                Fee
All electric signs, permanent       $10
All non-electric signs              $5
All temporary and/or portable signs $5
Inspection fees, each               $20
 
   (B)   The Planning Commission of the town may amend or waive any of the fees
required herein if the Planning Commission is acting under the provisions of §
151.04 of this code.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 54.23 ISSUANCE.
   After the Commission has approved an application for a permit under this
subchapter, the applicant shall pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer the fees
prescribed by §
54.22 of this chapter. When so paying, he or she shall have with him or her
copy No. 1 in the prescribed place indicating that the fee has been paid. This
application, when signed by both the Town Clerk-Treasurer and the Commission,
shall constitute the permit to perform work.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 54.24 FAILURE TO COMMENCE OR SUSPENSION OF WORK AFTER ISSUANCE.
   (A)   If any work authorized by permit under this subchapter is not
commenced within 30 days after the date thereon, such permit shall expire and
shall thereafter be void. In such a case, before such work is commenced, a new
permit shall be obtained as if for the first time.
   (B)   Any work once started under such permit shall not suspend except for
some unavoidable cause, and in such a case, a statement of the facts shall be
made in writing giving the date the work is to begin, and such statement shall
be filed in the office of the Commission.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 54.25 VARIANCES.
   (A)   In the installation of any electrical job, if the electrician
installing the same finds that it would be impossible to abide by the letter of
this chapter on account of some mechanical construction of the building,
location of fixtures or some other reason, then he or she may apply to the
Commission for a variance, stating his or her reasons for any changes and
setting forth the conditions with a statement of his or her desires for
exceptions to the provisions of this chapter for the particular job.
   (B)   If the Commission finds that the conditions warrant the same and that
it would be impractical and unreasonable to require strict conformance to this
chapter, then it shall have the authority to make special rulings for the sage
guarding of life and property and the improvement of electrical installations.
In such cases, the persons engaged in installing electrical equipment and
holding licenses under this chapter shall be notified in writing of the
decision.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
INSPECTIONS
§ 54.40 RIGHT OF ENTRY BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Every person owning, leasing, operating or in possession of any
building or structure within the town must provide reasonable access for the
Commission to enter upon the grounds for the purpose of installing, maintaining
or reading water and electrical meters. REASONABLE ACCESS includes, but is not
limited to, providing entrance to private roads or fields if such entry is
required to install, read or maintain water or electrical meters. The
Commission shall, upon request of the owner, occupant or lessee of the
premises, exhibit their authority to make such entry.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or lessee of any premises
to prevent or refuse to permit such entry.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.41 INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   Its shall be the duty of the Commission to make inspections of all work for
which permits have been issued under this chapter, and it shall be the duty of
the person making the installations to promptly notify the Commission when the
work is ready for inspection. Such inspection shall be made within 48 hours
after such notice, Sundays and holidays excluded.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.42 WORK TO BE CONCEALED, APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon inspecting the roughing-in of any electrical work which is to be
concealed, the Commission shall leave a notice in or near the main cabinet
clearly stating whether the work is completed and approved or is to be kept
open for correction or completion.
   (B)   No wood or metalwork not belonging to the electrical installation
shall be placed within one inch of any exposed electrical conductor. All steam
fitting, furnace work, gas fitting and telephone and bell wiring to be placed
in the vicinity of the electrical wiring which is to be concealed must be
placed before the electrical wiring can be considered as completed and ready to
be concealed.
   (C)   In the event the notice indicates that the work is to be kept open for
correction or completion, it shall be unlawful to conceal such work by any
lath, ceil or in any manner until it has been approved. It shall likewise be
unlawful for any person not connected with the installation of the same to in
any manner disturb or interfere with any electrical work which has not been
approved.
   (D)   If the wiring is in such a condition so as to interfere with
completion of the building or the installation of other apparatus, then the
contractor must be notified and given time to make necessary changes.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.43 COMPLETED WORK, APPROVAL.
   (A)   After all work authorized by permit under this chapter has been
completed, it shall be inspected as provided in §
54.41 of this chapter, and if found to be in accordance with this chapter and
all other applicable ordinances, then the Commission shall issue an approval
certificate or tag.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect with or use any
electric equipment or to supply electric current over the same until such
approval certificate or tag is issued. It shall likewise be unlawful for any
utility to connect or to cause to be connected any service or building for the
supply of electric current until it has been notified by the Commission that
the electric work has been inspected and approved and is ready for electric
service.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.44 ABATEMENT OR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE WITH DEFECTIVE INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Upon any inspection, if the Commission finds any part of any
electrical wiring or apparatus to be in a defective or dangerous condition,
then it shall notify the owner or occupant of the premises in writing to have
the defect corrected within such time as the Commission shall deem necessary.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant refuses or fails to comply with the
requirements of the Commission or to correct all defects as directed within the
specific time, then it shall be the duty of the Commission to notify the
utility furnishing the electrical current to such defective wiring or
apparatus. Upon receipt of such notice, the utility shall immediately
disconnect the service or fee wiring as directed by the Commission until
notified in writing by the Commission that the defects have been corrected.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make correction of a dangerous,
defective or hazardous electrical installation within a time designated by the
Commission after having been notified by the Commission as per §
54.44 of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and punished accordingly.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-10-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL AND TRAFFIC FLOW
      
72.   VEHICLE OPERATION
      
73.   PARKING
      
74.   VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
      
75.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
76.   RAILROADS
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State Traffic Code adopted
   
70.02   Scope of application
   
70.03   Insurance or certificate required
   
70.04   Accidents, duties of driver
   
70.05   Vehicle equipment requirements
   
70.06   Size and weight restrictions for vehicles
   
70.07   Tractor trailer combination route restrictions
   
70.08   Securing loads; exception
   
70.09   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
70.10   Boarding and alighting from vehicle
   
70.11   Obstructing roadway or view at intersection prohibited
   
70.12   Unlawful riding prohibited
   
70.13   Authorizing or permitting violations prohibited
   
70.14   Eluding police officers prohibited
   
70.15   Pushcart, animal or animal-drawn vehicle operation
   
70.16   Construction zone or maintenance zone regulations
   
70.17   Emergency vehicles, duties and requirements
   
70.18   Following fire apparatus or crossing fire hose prohibited
   
70.19   Sound amplification system restrictions
   
70.20   Jake brake use prohibited
   
70.21   Seat belt and child passenger restraint requirements
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.35   Police officer and firefighter traffic and enforcement duties
   
70.36   Inspection of vehicle by officers
   
70.37   Traffic citation issuance
   
70.38   Failure to obey and comply with traffic citation
   
70.39   Illegal cancellation of traffic citation
   
70.40   Disposition and record of traffic citation, complaint
   
70.41   Court records kept; abstract sent to state
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.,
and the rules of the road, 47 O.S. §§ 11-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference and are enforceable by the town within the
town limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 70.02 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to every street, highway,
alley, roadway, sidewalk, driveway, parking area and every other public way
either within or outside of the corporate limits of the town the use of which
the town has the jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not
limited to:
   (A)   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
   (B)   Those upon land owned by the town;
   (C)   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the town; and
   (D)   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 70.03 INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this traffic code, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in the state as found in 47
O.S. Art. VI, Ch. 7 and 47 O.S. § 7-606.
      OPERATOR’S POLICY. An operator’s policy of liability insurance which
insures the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him or
her by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by him or her of any
motor vehicle not owned by him or her, subject to the same limits of liability
as required in an owner’s policy.
      OWNER’S POLICY. An owner’s policy of liability insurance which:
         (a)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate
reference all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in division (c) below, using an insured vehicle with
the express or implied permission of the named insured against loss from the
liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership, maintenance,
operation or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY.
         (a)   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
         (b)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of the
limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or
bond; or
         (c)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of the limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as
acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the State Board for
Property and Casualty Rates, verifying the existence of the security required
by the Compulsory Insurance Law of the state.
   (B)   Proof of insurance required.
      (1)   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in the state and operating
said vehicle within the town boundaries shall carry in such vehicle at all
times a current owner’s security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been used by the State Department of Public Safety,
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer, and in the case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
      (2)   While operating or using such vehicle within the town boundaries,
every operator of a motor vehicle registered in the state shall carry either an
operator’s or owner’s security verification form issued by a carrier, provided
that the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon, or an equivalent form
issued by the State Department of Public Safety reflecting liability coverage.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or
operator’s security verification form or an equivalent form from the Department
during the operation of the vehicle, and shall not be required to surrender
such form for vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
by any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which, according to the records of
the State Department of Public Safety, is in compliance with the Compulsory
Insurance Law and reflects a deposit, bond, self-insurance or fleet policy;
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the State Corporation Commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   (D)   Enforcement and sentencing.
      (1)   A sentence imposed for any violation of this chapter may be
suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the Court.
      (2)   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the Department
reflecting liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of the
alleged offense shall be entitled to the dismissal of such charge.
      (3)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public Safety within
ten days reflecting the action taken by the Court.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 ACCIDENTS, DUTIES OF DRIVER.
   (A)   Injury to or death of persons.
      (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to or the death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his or her vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close
thereto as possible, and return to and remain at the scene of the accident
until he or she has given his or her name and address and the registration of
his or her vehicle. Such driver shall exhibit his or her driver’s license upon
request to the person injured or to the driver or occupant of, or person
attending, any vehicle collided with.
      (2)   Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than
is necessary.
      (3)   Such driver shall render to any person injured in such accident
reasonable assistance, including the carrying of or making arrangements for the
carrying of such person to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical and
surgical treatment if it is apparent that this treatment is necessary, or if
such is requested by the injured person.
   (B)   Damage to property.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in bodily injury to or the death of any person or in which
it is apparent that damage to one vehicle or the property is in excess of $300
shall, as soon as is practicable, report such accident to a police officer or
the Police Department.
      (2)   If a driver makes out a written report of the accident in the
office of the Police Department as soon as is practicable after the accident,
which report to be forwarded to the State Department of Public Safety in
accordance with state law, then the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance
with this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped
as required by law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate a vehicle which is not equipped as required by law upon a
street of the town;
      (2)   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use
it in a manner prohibited by law; or
      (3)   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a
street in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS FOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Permit for oversized vehicle. No person shall drive on or convey
through any street any vehicle the width, height, length, weight or load of
which exceeds that authorized by state law, except in accordance with a permit
issued by state authority or by the Police Chief.
   (B)   Weight limitation. No vehicle weighing more than ten tons shall be
operated upon the streets, alleys and other public ways within the town, except
on state highways.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 TRACTOR TRAILER COMBINATION ROUTE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, either as owner or operator, or as
owner and operator, to drive, operate or otherwise move any tractor trailer
combination upon the side streets of the town when the tractor trailer
combination has a combined length exceeding 45 feet or a total gross weight in
excess of ten tons, or a total combined length exceeding 45 feet and a total
gross weight in excess of ten tons.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any tractor trailer combination:
      (1)   Making a necessary delivery to any business or commercial
establishment doing lawful business within the town;
      (2)   Making deliveries to any construction site within the town; or
      (3)   Passing through the town on Main Street, U.S. Highway 69-A.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 SECURING LOADS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Preventing load from dropping or leaking. No vehicle shall be driven
or moved on any street or alley unless the vehicle is constructed or loaded so
as to prevent any of its load from dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise
escaping therefrom, except that sand or salt may be dropped for the purpose of
securing traction, or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Securing load. No person shall operate on any street or alley any
vehicle with any load unless the load and any covering thereon is securely
fastened so as to prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or
in any manner a hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   (C)   Exception for livestock or agricultural products. This section shall
not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock, poultry or agricultural
products, except for baled agricultural products, but any such truck shall be
constructed or loaded so as to prevent the livestock or poultry from escaping
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 BOARDING AND ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 OBSTRUCTING ROADWAY OR VIEW AT INTERSECTION PROHIBITED.
   In no event shall any vehicle or tractor trailer combination obstruct any
roadway or the view at any intersection.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 UNLAWFUL RIDING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, nor to persons riding
within truck bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him of her,
registered in his or her name or under his or her control to be driven, parked
or stopped in violation of any provision of this traffic code. No parent of any
child nor guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit such
child or ward to violate any provision of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 ELUDING POLICE OFFICERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      VISUAL OR AUDIBLE SIGNAL. A red light and a siren from a law enforcement
officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to be an
official police, sheriff or highway patrol car.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a
visual or audible signal directing the operator to bring his or her vehicle to
a stop shall willfully increase his or her speed, extinguish his or her lights
or in any other manner attempt to or actually elude such law enforcement
officer.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 PUSHCART, ANIMAL OR ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLE OPERATION.
   Every person propelling any pushcart, riding an animal upon a roadway or
driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of this
traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except for those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 CONSTRUCTION ZONE OR MAINTENANCE ZONE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority to close streets.
      (1)   While repairing or improving the streets of the town, town
employees or contractors, and utility company personnel when installing,
improving or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized, subject to control by the Board of Trustees, to close any
street or section thereof to traffic as necessary during such repair,
maintenance or construction.
      (2)   In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   (B)   Driving restrictions.
      (1)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above and traffic-control devices or barricades have been erected,
it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under, over or
around such traffic-control devices or barricades or to otherwise enter the
closed area.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to persons
while engaged in the construction, maintenance or repair, nor to persons
entering therein for the protection of lives or property.
      (3)   Persons having their places of residence or places of business
within the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at
their own risk.
   (C)   Construction under traffic.
      (1)   Whenever the construction, repair or maintenance of any street or
utility line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees,
personnel or contractors concerned shall erect or cause to be erected traffic-
control devices to warn and guide the public.
      (2)   Every person using the street shall obey all signs, signals,
markings, flagpersons or other traffic-control devices which are placed to
regulate, control and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance
area.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 EMERGENCY VEHICLES, DUTIES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Operation of vehicle when authorized emergency vehicle approaches.
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of the state,
or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal
only, the drivers of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection. Such drivers
shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle
has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Drivers of emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The provisions of this traffic code shall not apply to the driver
of an authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call, when
in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to,
but not upon returning from, a fire alarm.
      (2)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle sounds an audible signal by
bell, siren or exhaust whistle while in motion as may be reasonably necessary,
and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a
red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500
feet to the front of the vehicle, except that an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light
visible from in front of the vehicle.
      (3)   These provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS OR CROSSING FIRE HOSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Following fire apparatus. The driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where a fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
   (B)   Crossing over a fire hose. No vehicle shall be driven over any
unprotected Fire Department hose when laid down on any street or private
driveway to be used at any fire or fire alarm without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any device, instrument or system, whether
electrical, mechanical or otherwise, for amplifying sound or for producing or
reproducing sound, including, but not limited to, any radio, stereo, musical
instrument, phonograph or sound or musical recorder or player.
   (B)   Prohibition. Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or
permit the operation of any sound amplification system in or on a vehicle
which:
      (1)   Can be heard outside of the vehicle from 50 or more feet; or
      (2)   Annoys or disturbs the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in
the vicinity, unless the system is being operated to request assistance of an
emergency nature or to warn of a hazardous situation.
   (C)   Exemptions. In addition to other specific exemptions authorized by
law, division (B) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   An authorized emergency vehicle;
      (2)   A vehicle operated by a gas, electric, communications or water
utility company, or by a governmental entity; or
      (3)   A vehicle used for advertising in a parade or in a political or
other special event permitted by the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-19) (Ord. 97-05, passed 12-8-1997) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 JAKE BRAKE USE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, association,
corporation, copartnership, firm or entity to use vehicle or trailer brakes
within the town limits which create an excessive or unusual noise, including,
but not limited to, such as is created by the use of engine or “Jake” brakes.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-20) (Ord. 07-02, passed 11-16-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 SEAT BELT AND CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Seat belts.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this division (A), the following
definition applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         PASSENGER CAR. Shall mean VEHICLE as defined in 47 O.S. § 1102.
            1.   PASSENGER CAR includes the passenger compartment of pickups,
vans, minivans and sport utility vehicles.
            2.   PASSENGER CAR shall not include trucks, truck tractors,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles or motorized bicycles.
            3.   PASSENGER CAR shall not include a vehicle used primarily for
farm use which is registered and licensed pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S.
§ 1134.
      (2)   Seat belts required. Every operator and front-seat passenger of a
passenger car operated in the state shall wear a properly-adjusted and fastened
safety seat belt system as required to be installed in the motor vehicle when
manufactured pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 571.208.
      (3)   Medical exemption.
         (a)   The State Commissioner of Public Safety, upon application from a
person who, for medical reasons, is unable to wear a safety seat belt system as
supported by a written attestation of such fact from a physician licensed
pursuant to 59 O.S. § 495, may issue to the person an exemption from the
provisions of this division (A). The exemption shall be in the form of a
restriction appearing on the driver’s license of the person and shall remain in
effect until the expiration date of the driver’s license.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (A) shall be construed to prevent a
person from applying for another exemption as provided for in this division
(A). The issuance of an attestation by a physician and the subsequent issuance
of an exemption by the State Commissioner in good faith shall not give rise to,
nor shall the physician or the state thereby incur, any liability whatsoever,
in damages or otherwise, to any person injured by reason of the failure of the
person to wear a safety seat belt system.
      (4)   Postal service carrier exemption. This division (A) shall not apply
to the operator of a motor vehicle while performing official duties as a route
carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
      (5)   Points not assessed for violations. The State Department of Public
Safety shall not record or assess points for violations of this division (A) on
any license holder’s traffic record maintained by the Department.
   (B)   Child passenger restraints.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definition applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM. An infant or child passenger
restraint system which meets the federal standards as set by 49 C.F.R. §
571.213.
      (2)   Children under six. When transporting a child under six years of
age in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets or highways of the
state, every driver shall provide for the protection of said child by properly
using a child passenger restraint system.
      (3)   Children age six to 13. Children at least six years of age but
younger than 13 years of age shall be protected by use of a child passenger
restraint system or a seat belt.
      (4)   Exceptions. The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to:
         (a)   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
         (b)   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         (c)   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in
use;
         (d)   The transportation of a child who is unable to be placed in such
devices for medical reasons; or
         (e)   The transportation of a child who weighs more than 40 pounds and
who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a lap
safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with combination
lap-and-shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap-and- shoulder safety
belts in the back seat are being used by other children who weigh more than 40
pounds, provided that:
            1.   For the purpose of this division (B)(4)(e), BACK SEAT shall
include all seats located behind the front seat of a vehicle operated by a
licensed childcare facility or church; and
            2.   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met
the weight requirements of this division (B)(4)(e) if, at the request of any
law enforcement officer, the licensed childcare facility or church provides the
officer with a written statement verified by the parent or legal guardian that
the child weighs more than 40 pounds.
      (5)   Issuance of warning. A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized
to stop a vehicle if it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the
provisions of this division (B) and give an oral warning to said driver. The
warning shall advise the driver of the possible danger to children resulting
from the failure to install or use child passenger restraint systems or seat
belts in motor vehicles.
      (6)   Violations.
         (a)   A violation of the provisions of this division (B) shall not be
admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
         (b)   In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal
injuries or wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure
of any person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the
provisions of this division (B) shall not be used in the aggravation or
mitigation of damages.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.35 POLICE OFFICER AND FIREFIGHTER TRAFFIC AND ENFORCEMENT DUTIES.
   (A)   Police Department. The Police Department shall have the power to
enforce the street traffic regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle
laws applicable to street traffic in the town, to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate accidents and to cooperate with officers of the town
in the administration of traffic laws and in developing ways and means to
improve traffic conditions.
   (B)   Fire Department. Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of
a fire or other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic
there or in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-17)
§ 70.36 INSPECTION OF VEHICLE BY OFFICERS.
   Police officers have the authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is
properly equipped and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 70.37 TRAFFIC CITATION ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and at
least two duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this traffic code.
   (B)   Notice may be given by delivering the tag to the violator or by
affixing such tag to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   (C)   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him or her into custody.
   (E)   The Town Board of Trustees may require that police officers use
citation tags furnished by the Municipal Court and that such tags be serially
numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-22)
§ 70.38 FAILURE TO OBEY AND COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATION.
   (A)   Failure to obey. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
violate his or her written promise to appear as given to an officer upon the
issuance of a traffic citation regardless of the disposition of the charge for
which such citation was originally issued.
   (B)   Failure to comply with parking citation.
      (1)   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking
under the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five days, then the
Clerk of the Municipal Court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to
which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him or her of the
violation and warning him or her that in the event that such letter is
disregarded for a period of five days, a warrant of arrest may be issued.
      (2)   On any occasion where two or more such traffic citations have been
affixed on the same motor vehicle and the traffic citations have been
disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the letter
provided in division (B)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to cancel or to solicit the cancellation of
any traffic citation in any manner other than as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.40 DISPOSITION AND RECORD OF TRAFFIC CITATION, COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of the state or any traffic
laws of the town, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his or her immediate superior officer, who shall cause the
original to be delivered to the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the original citation in the Municipal Court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the Court or by other official
action by a Judge of the Court, including by forfeiture of bail or by payment
of a fine.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by the
Municipal Court which are delivered to the Police Department for service, and
also of the final disposition of the warrants.
   (D)   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint or
warrant, in a manner other than as required in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 COURT RECORDS KEPT; ABSTRACT SENT TO STATE.
   (A)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall keep a record of every traffic
citation deposited with or presented to the Court and shall keep a record of
every official action by the Court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in
reference thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail or judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
   (B)   Within ten days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a person
upon a charge of violating any provision of this traffic code or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the Municipal Judge or Clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the State Department of Public Safety a
certified abstract of the court’s record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   (C)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the State
Department of Public Safety, and shall include the name and address of the
party charged, the number of his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the
registration number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the
date of the hearing, the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited and the
amount of the fine or forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-22)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, any violations of the provisions of this
traffic code shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-23)
   (B)   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the Department upon the request of any peace officer of the Department as per §
70.03 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
   (C)   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements
of §
70.04 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
   (D)   Any person, association, corporation, copartnership, firm or entity
who violates any of the provisions of §
70.20 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 plus court costs and
fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-20)
   (E)   (1)   The fine and court costs for violating the provisions of §
70.21(A) of this chapter shall not exceed $20.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating §
70.21(B)(2) or (B)(3) of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of $50 and
shall pay all court costs thereof. This fine shall be suspended and the court
costs limited to a maximum of $15 in the case of a first offense upon proof of
purchase or acquisition by loan of a child passenger restraint system, provided
that the State Department of Public Safety shall not assess points to the
driving record of any person convicted of a violation of §
70.21(B)(2) or (B)(3) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-21)
(Ord. 07-02, passed 11-16-2007)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CONTROL AND TRAFFIC FLOW
Section
   
71.01   Obedience to devices required
   
71.02   Presumption of legality
   
71.03   Ratification of existing devices
   
71.04   Necessity of signs
   
71.05   Interference with signs, devices or signals
   
71.06   Traffic-control signal legend
   
71.07   Flashing signal requirements
   
71.08   Stop sign requirements
   
71.09   Yield sign requirements
   
71.10   Driving within traffic lanes
   
71.11   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.12   Through streets
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES REQUIRED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto which is placed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted in this chapter to the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in a position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4)
§ 71.03 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
prior to the adoption of this chapter and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be
official traffic-control devices, provided that such traffic-control devices
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 71.04 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   No provision of this chapter for which official traffic-control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if an official device is
not in proper position and sufficiently legible so as to be seen by an
ordinarily-observant person at the time and place of the alleged violation.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no devices
are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 71.05 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS, DEVICES OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall attempt to or in fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or
remove any official traffic- control device, nor any railroad sign or signal,
nor any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part thereof,
without lawful authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or colored lighted arrows, whether successively one at
a time or in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used,
except for with special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights
shall indicate the appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as provided by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6)
§ 71.07 FLASHING SIGNAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Red or yellow signal. Whenever an illuminated, flashing red or yellow
signal is used in a traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by
vehicular traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red stop signal. When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, at the limit line, when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection. The right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow caution signal. When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 STOP SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly-
marked stop line; if there is none, then the driver shall stop at the point
nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersecting roadway but before entering the intersection.
   (B)   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street so as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The driver, having so yielded, may proceed, and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 YIELD SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If required for safety to stop, then the driver of a vehicle
approaching a yield sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly-
marked stop line, or if there is no stop line, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway.
   (B)   (1)   The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the right-of-way
to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving
and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so
closely so as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver, having so yielded,
may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding.
      (2)   However, if such driver is involved in a collision with a
pedestrian in a crosswalk or with a vehicle in the intersection after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, then such collision shall be deemed prima
facie evidence of his or her failure to yield the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10 DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement, or as otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly-marked
lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as is practicable entirely
within a single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver
has first ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or where
such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such
allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use
a designated lane or designating lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Designation; signs posted. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the
town designates any one-way street or alley, the appropriate town personnel
shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation
shall be effective unless the signs are in place. Signs indicating the
direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where the movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Traffic movement in posted direction. Upon those streets and parts of
streets and in those alleys designated as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular
traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the
direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where
movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Designation. The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may
designate any street or part of a street as a through street.
   (B)   Signs posted. Whenever a through street is designated by the Board of
Trustees, the appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and
maintain a stop sign or, on the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation at any intersection, a yield sign, on each and every street
intersecting such through street unless traffic at any such intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic-control signals.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
   
72.01   Operation of vehicles generally
   
72.02   Licensing requirements; vehicle inspection sticker
   
72.03   Speed regulations
   
72.04   Turning and signaling
   
72.05   Driving on the right side of roadways; exceptions
   
72.06   Driving on sidewalks
   
72.07   Corner cutting prohibited
   
72.08   Right-of-way generally
   
72.09   Emerging from an alley, driveway or building
   
72.10   Limitations on backing up a vehicle
   
72.11   Starting a parked vehicle
   
72.12   Reckless driving
   
72.13   Driving while text messaging
   
72.14   Driving while impaired or under the influence
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic accidents, duties of driver, see §
70.04
   Vehicle impoundment, see
Ch. 74
   Vehicle size and weight restrictions, see §
70.06
§ 72.01 OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY.
   Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, the rights of pedestrians
and the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; VEHICLE INSPECTION STICKER.
   (A)   Driver’s license. It is unlawful for any person who does not have a
driver’s license as required by state law for the operation of a vehicle upon
the state highways to operate a motor vehicle within the town in violation of
any restriction applied to the driver’s license.
   (B)   Vehicle license. No person shall drive, propel, move or park on the
streets of the town any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless the motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer is licensed as required by state law and the
license is conspicuously displayed thereon.
   (C)   Unlicensed vehicles. It is unlawful for any person to park any motor
vehicle not bearing a current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street
or highway within the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General rule.
      (1)   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface and width of the street and
to any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than that which will permit him or her to bring the
vehicle to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of division (A)(1) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazards exist with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
   (B)   General maximum speed limit.
      (1)   No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this
chapter, shall be driven at a speed greater than 25 mph upon any street within
the town.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may determine that certain other speed
regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in
which event, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed
in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place giving notice
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 TURNING AND SIGNALING.
   (A)   Required position for turning at an intersection. The driver of a
vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows.
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic
is permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the
intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the
right of such centerline where it enters the intersection, and after entering
the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever
practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to
the left of the center of the intersection.
   (B)   Vehicle turning left. The driver of a vehicle within an intersection
intending to turn left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close
thereto so as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver, having so yielded
and having given a signal when and as required by this chapter, may make such
left turn, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
from such opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making
the left turn.
   (C)   Prohibited turns and U-turns.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees may determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn, and shall place
proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event,
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, which may be removed when
such turns are permitted.
      (2)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right,
left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the direction
of any such sign.
   (D)   Turning and stopping signals required.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon
giving a signal of intention as provided in this division (D) in the event that
any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, shall
be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
      (3)   When there is an opportunity to give such signal, no person shall
stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle except upon the giving of a
signal of intention as provided herein to the driver of any vehicle immediately
to the rear.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 DRIVING ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Driving on the right; exceptions. Upon all roadways of sufficient
width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway, except:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement; or
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   (B)   Slow-moving traffic. Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less
than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions
then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane when available for traffic
or as close as is practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway,
except for when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except for
at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 CORNER CUTTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any
parking facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the
services offered on the premises served by such service drive or parking
facility.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across
any parking facility for the purpose of shortening his or her travel distance,
avoiding a traffic-control device, avoiding using the streets for travel or
turning a vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction on the street from
which it entered the drive.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 RIGHT-OF-WAY GENERALLY.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the right-
of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different street,
provided that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or
federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto so as to constitute an immediate
hazard. When two vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 EMERGING FROM AN ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision. Upon entering the roadway, such driver shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-13) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING UP A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back up the same unless such movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the town. RECKLESS
DRIVING shall include any person who drives a motor vehicle in willful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or
dangerous rate of speed.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 DRIVING WHILE TEXT MESSAGING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      CELLULAR TELEPHONE. An analog or digital wireless telephone authorized by
the Federal Communication Commission to operate in the frequency bandwidth
reserved for cellular telephones.
      COMPOSE, SEND, OR READ. With respect to a text message, the manual entry,
sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any person or
device.
      ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. An electronic device which permits the
user to manually transmit a communication of written text with any person or
device by means other than through an oral transfer or wire communication. This
term does not include a device physically or electronically integrated into a
motor vehicle, a voice-operated global positioning or navigation system that is
affixed to a motor vehicle or a hands-free device that allows the user to
write, send or read a text message without the use of either hand except to
activate, deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
      TEXT MESSAGE. Includes a text-based message, instant message, electronic
message, photo, video or electronic mail.
   (B)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle on any street or highway within the town while using a hand-held
electronic communication device to manually compose, send or read an electronic
text message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
   (C)   Points not assessed for violations. The Department of Public Safety
shall not record or assess points for violations of this section on any license
holder’s traffic record maintained by the Department.
   (D)   Exceptions. The provisions of division (B) above shall not apply if a
person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication device for
the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an
imminent emergency:
      (1)   An emergency response operator;
      (2)   A hospital, physician’s office or health clinic;
      (3)   A provider of ambulance services;
      (4)   A provider of firefighting services; or
      (5)   A law enforcement agency.
(Ord. 15-01, passed 11-10-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 DRIVING WHILE IMPAIRED OR UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle within the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person whose ability to drive, operate or be in
actual physical control of any motor vehicle is impaired due to the consumption
of alcoholic beverages or low point beer.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or is under
the influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate, amphetamine or marijuana, or
who is under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him or
her incapable of safely driving a motor vehicle, to drive a motor vehicle
within the town. The fact that any person charged with a violation of this
section is or has been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug,
barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana or other drug shall not constitute a
defense against any charge of violating this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.13 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more
than $100.
(Ord. 15-01, passed 11-10-2015)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING
Section
   
73.01   Methods of parking
   
73.02   Parking prohibitions in specific areas
   
73.03   Handicapped parking, public or private property
   
73.04   Obstructing traffic or driveways prohibited
   
73.05   Parking more than 24 hours restricted
   
73.06   No stopping or parking zones
   
73.07   Loading zones, regulations
   
73.08   Parking or driving with hazardous materials, regulations
   
73.09   Selling merchandise from parked vehicles prohibited
   
73.10   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
§ 73.01 METHODS OF PARKING.
   (A)   Parking within an indicated space. In an area where parking spaces
have been marked off on the surface of the street, a driver parking a vehicle
shall park it within a parking space as thus marked off and not on or over a
line delineating a space.
   (B)   Parallel parking. Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall
be stopped or parked in the direction of lawful traffic movement and with the
curbside wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the curb or
roadway edge.
   (C)   Angle parking.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         ANGLE PARKING. Parking at the curb at approximately a 45-degree angle
between the right side of the vehicle and the curb.
      (2)   Permitted conditions. The Board of Trustees may determine upon
which streets angle parking is permitted and shall direct the marking or
signing of such streets. Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at
any place where passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive
upon the left side of the street.
      (3)   Obedience to angle parking rules.
         (a)   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings and with the
front of the vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
         (b)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually-marked space. The vehicle shall not be
of such length nor be positioned in such a manner so as to protrude into the
street a distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes
or to drive on the left side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.02 PARKING PROHIBITIONS IN SPECIFIC AREAS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with the law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-control
device, no person shall:
   (A)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      (1)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street except as authorized otherwise in this chapter;
      (2)   On a sidewalk;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   On a crosswalk;
      (5)   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (6)   On any railroad tracks; or
      (7)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
   (B)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      (1)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (2)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (3)   Within ten feet of a crosswalk at an intersection, except in marked
parking spaces;
      (4)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (5)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station; or
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 HANDICAPPED PARKING, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property which is accessible to the public and where
the public is invited or on public property which is designated and posted as a
reserved area for the parking of motor vehicles of physically disabled persons,
unless such person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions
of 47 O.S. § 15-112 and such insignia is displayed as provided in said § 15-112
or in regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.04 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DRIVEWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a
manner or under such conditions so as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley
in such a position so as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05 PARKING MORE THAN 24 HOURS RESTRICTED.
   No vehicle shall be parked, stored, stood or otherwise left on any street in
the town for a period of time longer than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06 NO STOPPING OR PARKING ZONES.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle at any time upon any of the designated streets, except when it
is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07 LOADING ZONES, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Zone designation. The Board of Trustees may determine the locations of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
   (B)   Standing in a loading zone.
      (1)   Passenger curb loading zones. No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb
loading zone during the hours when the regulations applicable to such curb
loading zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed three
minutes.
      (2)   Freight curb loading zones. No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials in any place marked
as a freight curb loading zone during the hours when the provisions applicable
to such zone are in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading
materials exceed 30 minutes.
      (3)   Passengers in freight curb loading zones. The driver of a passenger
vehicle may stop temporarily at a place marked as a freight curb loading zone
for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading
passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any motor vehicle used
for the transportation of materials which is waiting to enter or about to enter
the zone.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 PARKING OR DRIVING WITH HAZARDOUS MATERIALS, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions. Except for the delivery of merchandise, no vehicle or
truck in the town shall park with hazardous materials, whether full, partially
full or empty, including, but not limited to, gasoline, explosives or
refrigerated trucks. No refrigerated truck shall be allowed to remain parked on
the streets.
   (B)   Engines left running. No vehicle with a hazardous material, as defined
herein, or gasoline shall be parked with its engine running.
   (C)   Exceptions. No vehicle listed in this section may be operated on any
street in the town except for the delivery of merchandise and except on state
highways.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.09 SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM PARKED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street in the town
and offer merchandise for sale therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided,
the sale of merchandise from parked vehicles on streets in the town is declared
to be dangerous to traffic and to the persons congregating around the vehicle
and constitutes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.10 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   Registered owner liable. In any prosecution charging a violation of
any law or regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof
that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation
of any law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle,
shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered
owner of the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the
point where, and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   (B)   Application of section. The presumption in division (A) above shall
apply only when the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10)
CHAPTER 74: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
74.01   Purpose and effect
   
74.02   Place of impoundment
   
74.03   Duration of impoundment; payment of costs
   
74.04   Police authority to impound
   
74.05   Arrest and detention of driver
   
74.06   Disabled vehicle
   
74.07   Vehicle on bridge or in tunnel
   
74.08   Vehicle constitutes traffic hazard
   
74.09   Illegal trespass by vehicle; filing of complaint
   
74.10   Vehicle parked overtime
   
74.11   Vehicle blocking fire exit or hydrant
   
74.12   Vehicle parked or disabled in intersection
   
74.13   Stolen vehicle recovered by police
   
74.14   Vehicle with outstanding traffic citations
   
74.15   Inventory policy for impounded vehicles
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PURPOSE AND EFFECT.
   The impoundment of vehicles under the authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for the protection of
the public peace, safety and welfare and the safeguarding of property, and
shall be used generally for:
   (A)   The prevention and removal of traffic hazards;
   (B)   The prevention and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic
law violations;
   (C)   The protection of public rights in the use of streets and
thoroughfares from obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights;
and
   (D)   Safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)
§ 74.02 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle which is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the Town
Board of Trustees, and to no other place.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-2)
§ 74.03 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT; PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Order for release. Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded
under the authority of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an
order for its release is received from the Police Chief or other proper police
officer.
   (B)   Payment of impoundment costs. The order of release of an impounded
vehicle shall be conditioned upon payment by the person to whom the release is
issued of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges assessed against
the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-3)
§ 74.04 POLICE AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized, within the
limits set forth in this chapter, to impound vehicles under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an authorized
police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-4)
§ 74.05 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leave or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-5)
§ 74.06 DISABLED VEHICLE.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway,
constituting a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of
traffic; or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such an extent so as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is disabled so as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6)
§ 74.07 VEHICLE ON BRIDGE OR IN TUNNEL.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel may be impounded where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7)
§ 74.08 VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and parked
illegally so as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-8)
§ 74.09 ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE; FILING OF COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      TRESPASS. A trespass with a vehicle. TRESPASS shall be further defined as
follows:
         (a)   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of another
person’s real property, public or private, without the owner’s or occupant’s
consent thereof, whether express or implied, if the property has a notice
posted giving times and prohibiting trespass during certain hours;
         (b)   Each and every entry in or upon the public or private posted
property, except at times and upon conditions when the same is subject to
public use;
         (c)   Remaining upon the premises of another, whether public or
private, and refusing to leave the premises forthwith after a demand by the
owner or occupant, either in person or by posted notices;
         (d)   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of returning to
private property before the posted time of the opening for business operations
on the next business day after having been directed to vacate such premises
under the terms of this section; and
         (e)   This definition shall not apply to persons, including employees,
whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or a person in
lawful possession of such premises. Any person alleged to be guilty of
violating this section shall have the responsibility of showing evidence that
they are authorized to be on the property in violation of any posted notice.
Furthermore, the provisions of this section shall not apply unless the hours of
business operation are posted upon the premises.
   (B)   Trespass prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to remain on or to
park any vehicle, which for the purpose of this section shall include, but not
be limited to, any device used for transportation, on any public or private
property in violation of any posted notice as defined in division (C) below.
Any violation of this section shall be considered a violation of the traffic
ordinances of the town and shall constitute a TRESPASS as defined in division
(A) above, and shall be punishable as hereinafter set forth.
   (C)   Posted notice.
      (1)   Before any person shall be guilty of violating division (B) above,
the property in question must be posted in a clearly-visible manner with a
notice that indicates the hours during which the property is open to the
public, and further, a statement that a trespass at any other time is
prohibited.
      (2)   Upon posting the notice as required herein, the owner of the
property posting the notice has authorized the town to act as the owner’s agent
for the enforcement of the notice the same as if the property were owned and
controlled by the town.
   (D)   Filing of complaints.
      (1)   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this section may
be impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
      (2)   If a violation of the provisions of this section occurs, the owner
or legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person
parking the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s property, or if the
identity of the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may
be filed against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be
verified and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal
occupant of the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
      (3)   Upon the filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal
occupant, and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of
this section have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle
to be impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-9) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.10 VEHICLE PARKED OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this chapter regarding more than 24 hours shall
be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-10)
§ 74.11 VEHICLE BLOCKING FIRE EXIT OR HYDRANT.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-11)
§ 74.12 VEHICLE PARKED OR DISABLED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-12)
§ 74.13 STOLEN VEHICLE RECOVERED BY POLICE.
   (A)   Owner not found. Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and
the registered owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one
hour, or cannot be determined from the registration papers and other
identifying media in the vehicle or from records or information available from
reports of stolen cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized
place of impoundment. The registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of
the location of the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police
Department.
   (B)   Owner notified. If the registered owner is identified, located and
notified of the recovery of the stolen vehicle, then the owner shall be given
the right to make his or her own arrangements for the removal of the vehicle
within the period of one hour from the time that he or she is actually notified
of its recovery, and if the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal
within the time specified, then the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-13)
§ 74.14 VEHICLE WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two or more citations have been issued for violation
of an ordinance and have not been presented as required may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-14)
§ 74.15 INVENTORY POLICY FOR IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his or her property, the protection
of town law enforcement personnel and the protection of the garage or wrecker
service moving or holding the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-15)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
74.09 of this chapter shall receive a citation for parking or remaining on
closed property either in person or, if the owner or operator shall not be
immediately ascertainable, by affixing the same to the vehicle found on the
property, and shall be fined up to the amount provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
      (2)   If the citation issued under §
74.09 of this chapter shall not be personally delivered but instead affixed to
a vehicle, then the registered owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for
allowing the vehicle to remain on the property in violation of the posted
notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-9)
CHAPTER 75: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
All-Terrain Vehicles (ATVs)
   
75.01   Definition
   
75.02   License and insurance
   
75.03   Permit and fee
   
75.04   Helmet requirement
   
75.05   Carrying passengers restricted
   
75.06   Hours of operation
   
75.07   Speed limit
Bicycles
   
75.20   Manner of riding; number of riders
   
75.21   Light and reflector requirements
   
75.22   Regulations applicable generally
   
75.23   Traffic laws and regulations apply
   
75.24   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
75.25   Speed limit
   
75.26   Use of the right side of the roadway
   
75.27   Riding abreast, regulations
   
75.28   Riding on sidewalk prohibited
 
   
75.99   Penalty
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATVS)
§ 75.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. A vehicle, whether utility vehicle, all-terrain
vehicle or golf cart, which is powered by an internal combustion engine or an
electric-type of engine which is manufactured and used for the purpose of
travel on or off roadways, and which may or may not be otherwise street legal
as defined by state statues. Said ATV shall include, but not be limited to,
three- or four-wheel vehicles either with bucket or bench seats for the driver
and passengers and a steering wheel or other direction-control device.
(Ord. 10-01, passed - -)
§ 75.02 LICENSE AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   License. No person shall operate an ATV upon the streets of the town
unless he or she has a valid state driver’s license.
   (B)   Insurance. No ATV shall be operated on the streets of the town without
liability insurance as required for vehicles licensed for operation in the
state.
(Ord. 10-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03 PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   No ATV shall be operated on the streets of the town without having
first obtained a permit from the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Prior to the issuance of
such permit, any applicant shall first show evidence of the required insurance
to the Police Chief or his or her designee. The permit may be issued upon
payment of the $10 fee payable to the town.
   (B)   The permit is to be located with the ATV at all times of its operation
as provided herein.
(Ord. 10-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 HELMET REQUIREMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 18 years of age to operate or be
carried on an ATV unless he or she wears a crash helmet of a type which
complies with the standards established by 49 C.F.R. § 571.218.
(Ord. 10-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.05 CARRYING PASSENGERS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of an ATV to carry a passenger unless
that ATV has been specially designed by the manufacturer to carry passengers in
addition to the operator.
(Ord. 10-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   ATVs may be operated on the streets of the town during daylight hours only,
and so long as they are operated in compliance with other ordinances of the
town regulating the operation of motor vehicles. ATVs are not to be operated on
state highways within the town limits.
(Ord. 10-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.07 SPEED LIMIT.
   No ATV shall be operated on a street or roadway within the town limits with
a speed limit of 35 mph of greater.
(Ord. 10-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
75.99
BICYCLES
§ 75.20 MANNER OF RIDING; NUMBER OF RIDERS.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.21 LIGHT AND REFLECTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   When in use at nighttime, every bicycle shall be equipped with a lamp on the
frame which emits a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by the State
Department of Public Safety, which shall be visible from all distances from 300
feet to 500 feet to the rear when directly in front of the lawful upper beams
of the headlamps of a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8)
§ 75.22 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or to fail to perform any
act required by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child or the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter are applicable to bicycles operated
upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.23 TRAFFIC LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the state declaring the rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the town which are applicable to the
driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and
except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can
have no application.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.24 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Compliance with traffic-control signals. Any person operating a
bicycle shall obey the instructions of official traffic-control signals, signs
and other control devices applicable to vehicles unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right,
left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the
bicycle to make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   (B)   Walking bicycles. Any person may walk a bicycle, and shall then be
subject to all laws applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.25 SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.26 USE OF THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE ROADWAY.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as is practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.27 RIDING ABREAST, REGULATIONS.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast,
except for on paths or on parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.28 RIDING ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk within the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
75.01 through
75.07 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of $100 plus court costs.
(Ord. 10-01, passed - -)
CHAPTER 76: RAILROADS
Section
   
76.01   Speed limit
   
76.02   Climbing on or boarding trains, restrictions
   
76.03   Sidewalks crossing railway rights-of-way, railway duties
   
76.04   Street and alley improvements, railway duties
§ 76.01 SPEED LIMIT.
   It is unlawful to drive, pull, move or operate a locomotive, train or other
rolling stock of a railroad at a speed of more than 45 mph within the corporate
limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.02 CLIMBING ON OR BOARDING TRAINS, RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To climb upon, hold on to or in any manner attach himself or herself
to any railway train, locomotive or railway car while such is in motion within
the town, unless such person is acting in the line of duty; or
   (B)   To board any train or railroad car, including a passenger, freight or
other car, except with a proper ticket or the permission of the person in
charge of the train or car or in the line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.03 SIDEWALKS CROSSING RAILWAY RIGHTS-OF-WAY, RAILWAY DUTIES.
   Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights-of-way
using the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the street when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company shall
keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)
§ 76.04 STREET AND ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS, RAILWAY DUTIES.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks
running in the general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto,
the railway company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet on
either side thereof in the same manner in which the remainder of the street is
to be or has been improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the
Board of Trustees by motion or resolution may approve.
      (2)   When the tracks of any railroad company cross any street which is
being or has been paved, the company shall pave as much of the street as is
occupied by its track or tracks and two feet on each side using the same
material as is to be or has been used on the street, or such other satisfactory
material as the Board of Trustees by motion or resolution may approve.
      (3)   When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of 100
feet, measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railroad company shall
grade, gutter, drain and curb the street area between its tracks and surface or
pave it with the same material which the town is to use or has used on the
street.
   (B)   Alleys. In cases where any railway company occupies an alley with its
track or tracks, such company shall improve, gutter, drain and grade such alley
and shall surface or pave it with the same material which is to be or has been
used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material as the Board of
Trustees by motion or resolution may approve.
   (C)   Keeping in good repair. Railroad companies shall keep all such
improvements made by them in a good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Through traffic
   
II.   One-way traffic
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH TRAFFIC.
 
Location                        Details
Main Street (U.S. Highway 69-A) Through-truck route
 
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
 
Location                             Details
Second Street between Elm and Quapaw One-way street
 
(Prior Code, § 7-4-9)
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking zones
   
II.   Time limitations
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
 
Location                                            Details
West half of Quapaw Avenue between First and Quapaw No parking by any vehicle
 
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
SCHEDULE II. TIME LIMITATIONS.
 
Location                             Details
Main Street, along or on either side 2 hours maximum for trucks and/or tractor
within 100 feet of a business        trailer combinations
 
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES AND APPLIANCES
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practices
   
90.04   Sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Financing of housing
   
90.06   Brokerage services
   
90.07   Exemptions
   
90.08   Administration
   
90.09   Education and conciliation
   
90.10   Enforcement; complaints
   
90.11   Investigations, subpoenas and giving of evidence
   
90.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
90.13   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.14   Prevention of intimidation
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act which is unlawful under §§
90.04,
90.05 and
90.06 of this chapter.
   DWELLING.
      (1)   Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families; and
      (2)   Any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of any such building, structure or portion
thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   (A)   Application of provisions. Subject to the provisions of division (B)
below and §
90.07 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to all dwellings except
as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   Exceptions. Nothing in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided
that such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-
family houses at any one time, and provided further that in the case of the
sale of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing
in such house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident
of such house prior to such sale, the exemptions granted by this division (B)
shall apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period, and
provided further that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf under any
express or voluntary agreement the title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family
houses at any one time, and provided further that the sale or rental of any
such single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter
only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such
facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesperson
or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(C) of this chapter.
         (b)   However, nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as is necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   Business of selling or renting dwellings. For the purpose of division
(B) above, a person shall be deemed to be in the business of selling or renting
dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-3) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996)
§ 90.04 SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
90.03 of this chapter, and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and
90.07 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status;
   (C)   To make, print or publish or to cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling which indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial
status or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is, in fact, so
available; or
   (E)   To induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any
dwelling, for profit, by representations regarding the entry or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race,
gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-4) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association,
insurance company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose
business consists in whole or in part of the making of commercial real estate
loans to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of
the amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan
or other financial assistance, because of the race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status of such person or of any
person associated with him or her in connection with such loan or other
financial assistance or with the purposes of such loan or other financial
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given.
   (B)   However, nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exceptions contained in §
90.03(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-5) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or
her in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on
account of race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap or
familial status.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-6) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings
which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the
same religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in
such religion is restricted on account of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not, in fact,
open to the public which provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other
than a commercial purpose as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-7) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996)
§ 90.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Mayor of the town.
   (B)   The Mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties and powers to
employees of the town or to the supervisors of such employees, including
functions, duties and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating,
hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to
any work, business or matter under this chapter. The Mayor shall, by rule,
prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of his or her hearing
examiners to other hearing examiners or to other officers in the town, to the
supervisors of such officers or to himself or herself, as shall be appropriate
and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner so as to
affirmatively further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with the
Mayor to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-8) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996)
§ 90.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Mayor shall commence
such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of
this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it and shall
endeavor, with their advice, to work out programs of voluntary compliance and
of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-9) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996)
§ 90.10 ENFORCEMENT; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Filing a complaint and informal resolution.
      (1)   Filing of complaint. Any person who claims to have been injured by
a discriminatory housing practice or who believes that he or she will be
irrevocably injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to
occur, hereafter the PERSON AGGRIEVED, may file a complaint with the Mayor.
Complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in
such form as the Mayor requires.
      (2)   Investigation by Mayor. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Mayor
shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons who allegedly
committed or are about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice.
Within 30 days after receiving a complaint or within 30 days after the
expiration of any period of reference under division (C) below, the Mayor shall
investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved
whether or not he or she intends to resolve it.
      (3)   Informal resolution. If the Mayor decides to resolve the complaint,
then he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged
discriminatory housing practice by the informal methods of conference
conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned.
   (B)   Time limit and content of complaint; answers by respondent.
      (1)   Time limit for filing. A complaint under division (A) above shall
be filed within 180 days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred.
      (2)   Complaint content; answers. Complaints shall be in writing and
shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing
practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any
time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint against him or her, and
with the leave of the Mayor, which shall be granted whenever it would be
reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his or her answer at any time. Both
complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   Filing complaint with Secretary of HUD. If, within 30 days after a
complaint is filed with the Mayor, the Mayor has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this chapter, then the person aggrieved may, within
30 days thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development. The Mayor will assist in this filing.
   (D)   Civil action. If the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, then the person aggrieved may,
within 30 days thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court
against the respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights granted or
protected by this chapter insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the
complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is about to occur, then the court may enjoin the respondent from
engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   (E)   Burden of proof on complainant. In any proceedings brought pursuant to
this section, the burden of proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Trial; voluntary compliance efforts halted. Whenever an action filed
by an individual shall come to trial, the Mayor shall immediately terminate all
efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-10) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996)
§ 90.11 INVESTIGATIONS, SUBPOENAS AND GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Conduct of investigations.
      (1)   In conducting an investigation, the Mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy such
materials and take and record the testimonies or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation, provided,
however, that the Mayor first complies with the provisions of the Fourth
Amendment of the United States Constitution relating to unreasonable searches
and seizures.
      (2)   The Mayor may issue subpoenas to compel his or her access to or the
production of such materials or the appearance of such persons, and he or she
may issue interrogatories to a respondent to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued
or served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The Mayor may administer
oaths.
   (B)   Issuance of subpoenas. Upon written application to the Mayor, a
respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of
subpoenas by and in the name of the Mayor to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Mayor himself or herself. A
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall show on its face the name
and address of such respondent and shall state that it was issued at his or her
request.
   (C)   Witness and mileage fees. Witnesses summoned by a subpoena of the
Mayor shall be entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses
in proceedings in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness
summoned by a subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by
him or her.
   (D)   Petition to revoke or modify subpoena. Within five days after the
service of a subpoena upon any person, such person may petition the Mayor to
revoke or modify the subpoena. The Mayor shall grant the petition if he or she
finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable
time or place, that it requires the production of evidence which does not
relate to any matter under investigation, that it does not describe with
sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be
unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   Refusal to obey subpoena. In the case of contumacy or refusal to obey
a subpoena, the Mayor or other person at whose request it was issued may
petition for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district
in which the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or
transacts business.
   (F)   Litigation by Town Attorney. The Town Attorney shall conduct all
litigation in which the Mayor participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-11) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   Civil action. The rights granted by §§
90.03 through
90.06 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred, provided, however,
that:
      (1)   The court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this
section or to §
90.10(D) of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
court believes that the conciliation efforts of the Mayor are likely to result
in a satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained
of in the complaint made to the Mayor and which practice forms the basis for
the action in court; and
      (2)   Any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior to the issuance
of any court order issued under the authority of this chapter and involving a
bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant without actual notice of the
existence of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of
this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   Decision of court. The court may grant as relief, as it deems
appropriate, any permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order
or other order and may award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than
$1,000 punitive damages, together with the court costs and reasonable attorney
fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff, provided that said plaintiff, in
the opinion of the court, is not financially able to assume said attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-12) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996)
§ 90.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected
by §§
90.03 through
90.05 or
90.11 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-13) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or by threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with the following shall be subject to a penalty:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status and because he or she is or
has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating without discrimination on account of race, gender,
color, religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial status in any of
the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons the opportunity or
protection to so participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been participating, or in
order to discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial
status, in any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities
described in division (A) above or from participating lawfully in speech or
peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-15) (Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any employee of the Mayor who shall make public any information in
violation of §
90.10(A) of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-10)
   (C)   (1)   As per §
90.11 of this chapter, any person who willfully fails or neglects, in obedience
to the subpoena or lawful order of the Mayor, to attend and testify, to answer
any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence if it is
in his or her power to do so shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
      (2)   Any person who, with the intent to mislead the Mayor, shall make or
cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report, account,
record or other document submitted to the Mayor pursuant to his or her subpoena
or other order, who shall willfully neglect or fail to make or to cause to be
made full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or other
documents or who shall willfully mutilate, alter or by any other means falsify
any documentary evidence shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-11)
   (D)   Whoever willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or whoever
attempts to injure, intimidate or interfere with, any person as per §
90.14 of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-15)
(Ord. 96-03, passed 9-11-1996)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Enforcement by County Health Department
   
91.02   Obstructing Health Officer unlawful
   
91.03   Noncompliance and willful violation unlawful
Weeds, Grass and Trash
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Accumulation of weeds or trash unlawful
   
91.17   Duty to maintain private property
   
91.18   Abatement by town cumulative
   
91.19   Reporting accumulations on property
   
91.20   Abatement procedure and costs
   
91.21   Exception
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Health Officer defined. Anywhere in this Title IX where the words
HEALTH OFFICER are used, it shall be construed to mean the Director of the
County Health Department or his or her duly- designated representative.
   (B)   Delegation of enforcement. It is the intent and purpose of the Mayor
and the Town Board of Trustees to delegate the enforcement of the health
ordinances of the town as set out in this section, and any such decisions
rendered under this section shall be subject to review by the Town Board of
Trustees upon an appeal from an offender.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 91.02 OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with any
Health Officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NONCOMPLIANCE AND WILLFUL VIOLATION UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully violate or to refuse or fail to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the
Board of Health or any officer charged with the enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS, GRASS AND TRASH
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The person so designated by the Town Board of
Trustees.
   CLEANING. The removal of trash from property.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste or matter of any kind or form which is uncared
for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEED.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except for healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption or vegetation grown in a tended and cultivated
garden, unless such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location,
constitute a detriment to the health, benefit or welfare of the public and the
community or a hazard to traffic, create a fire hazard to the property or
otherwise interfere with the mowing of WEEDS;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulations of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEED does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 91.16 ACCUMULATION OF WEEDS OR TRASH UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Allowing trash accumulations or the growing of weeds. It is unlawful
for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel of land situated wholly
or in part within the corporate limits of the town to allow trash or weeds to
grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises. It is the duty of such owner or
occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No owner or occupant of land or lots shall:
      (1)   Knowingly permit the throwing or dumping upon his or her premises
of any refuse, rubbish or trash; or
      (2)   Permit such materials to remain on his or her premises for more
than ten days after being notified to remove them by the town or the County
Health Department, whether or not the owner or occupant knew of or permitted
such throwing or depositing.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 DUTY TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any private
property or premises shall maintain or keep any refuse, rubbish, trash or
similar material, except for dirt, thereon, nor shall such person allow the
accumulation of any such material, nor shall any such person keep or maintain
such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of other
property in the neighborhood in which the premises is located.
   (B)   No prosecution may be undertaken under this section until such person
has been given ten days’ notice by the town of the condition and an order to
fully abate the alleged deficiency.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 ABATEMENT BY TOWN CUMULATIVE.
   In addition to the penalty for violations of §§
91.16 or
91.17 of this chapter, the town may abate as a public nuisance any condition
prohibited herein pursuant to this chapter or any other law or ordinance, all
of which shall be cumulative.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 REPORTING ACCUMULATIONS ON PROPERTY.
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of trash
or the growth of grass and weeds, or both of these conditions, upon any
premises within the limits of the town shall report the condition to the
administrative officer if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the
premises appears to be:
   (A)   Detrimental to the health, benefit or welfare of the public and the
community;
   (B)   A hazard to traffic;
   (C)   A fire hazard to property; or
   (D)   Any two or more of these conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4)
§ 91.20 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE AND COSTS.
   The town administrative officer is authorized to cause property within the
town to be cleaned of trash and weeds, grass to be cut or mowed and nuisances
to be abated in accordance with the following procedure.
   (A)   Authority to determine. The town administrative officer or his or her
designee may determine whether the accumulation of trash, growth of weeds or
grass or other nuisances has caused the property to become detrimental to the
health, benefit or welfare of the public and the community or a hazard to
traffic, or if such creates a fire hazard to the danger of the property.
   (B)   Notice to property owner. At least ten days’ notice shall be given to
the owner of the property by mail at the address shown by the current year’s
tax rolls in the County Treasurer’s office before the hearing provided for
herein or before action may be taken. The notice shall order the property owner
to clean the property of trash or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the
property, as appropriate, and shall state that unless the work is performed
within ten days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the town
and a notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk against the property
for the costs due and owed the town.
   (C)   Receipt of mailing notice.
      (1)   At the time of the mailing of notice to the property owner, the
town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the Postal Service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
      (2)   However, if the property owner cannot be located within ten days
from the date of mailing the same, then notice may be given by posting a copy
of the notice on the property or by publication, as provided by 11 O.S. § 1-
102, one time not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action.
   (D)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   If the town anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in
accordance with the provisions as herein provided, then the notice, whether by
mail or publication, shall state:
         (a)   That any accumulation of trash or excessive weed or grass growth
on the owner’s property occurring within six months after the removal of trash
or the cutting or mowing of weeds or grass on the property pursuant to the
notice may be summarily abated by the town;
         (b)   That the cost of such abatement shall be assessed against the
owner; and
         (c)   That a lien shall be imposed on the property to secure such
payment, all without further notice to the property owner.
      (2)   At the time of such summary abatement, the Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall notify the property owner of the abatement and cost thereof. The notice
shall state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten days after
the date of mailing the notice. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the
cost of such abatement shall be determined and collected as provided in this
section.
      (3)   These summary abatement procedures shall not apply if the records
of the County Clerk show that the property was transferred after notice was
given pursuant to this section.
   (E)   Written consent of property owner. The owner of the property may give
his or her written consent to the town authorizing removal of the trash or
mowing of the weeds or grass. By giving his or her written consent, the owner
waives his or her right to a hearing by the town.
   (F)   Hearing; right to appeal.
      (1)   A hearing may be held by the administrative officer to determine
whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused
the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit or welfare of the
public and the community or a hazard to traffic, or if such creates a fire
hazard to the danger of property.
      (2)   The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the
administrative officer of the town, except that if the administrative officer
conducts the initial hearing, then the right of appeal is to the Town Board of
Trustees. The appeal shall be taken by filing a written notice of appeal with
the administrative officer of the town within ten days after the administrative
order is rendered.
   (G)   Clearing or cleaning by town; right of entry.
      (1)   If the administrative officer finds that the condition of the
property constitutes a detriment or hazard and the property would be benefitted
by the removal of such conditions, then the administrative officer shall direct
that the clearing or cleaning be done by one of the following methods:
         (a)   By the town, provided that the actual cost of the labor,
maintenance and equipment required does not exceed $5,000; or
         (b)   On a private contract basis, in which case, it shall be awarded
to the lowest and best bidder.
      (2)   As a governmental function of the town, the agents of the town are
granted the right of entry on properties for the removal of trash, the mowing
of weeds or grass or the cleaning and performance of necessary duties.
Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of a property, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall file a notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the
property and the work performed by the town and stating that the town claims a
lien on the property for the cleaning and mowing costs, and that such costs are
the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing
of the notice.
   (H)   Determination of costs. After the property has been cleaned, the
administrative officer shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning and any
other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith, including the cost
of the notice and mailing. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward by mail to
the property owner specified in this section a statement of the actual cost
demanding payment.
   (I)   Failure to pay; lien against property. If payment is not made within
30 days from the date of the mailing of the statement, then the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the
County Treasurer, and the same shall be levied on the property and collected by
the County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. The cost and the
interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the cost is
certified to the County Treasurer, and such shall continue until the cost is
fully paid.
   (J)   Civil remedy for the collection of costs. At any time prior to the
collection as provided herein, the town may pursue any civil remedy for the
collection of the amount owing and the interest thereon. Upon receiving
payment, if any, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer
a notice of such payment directing discharge of the lien or part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of §
91.20 of this chapter shall not apply to any property used for agricultural
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.03 of this chapter is guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Nuisances unlawful
   
92.03   Successive owners liable
   
92.04   Time does not legalize nuisances
   
92.05   Certain nuisances enumerated
   
92.06   Town power to define and summarily abate
Health and Sanitary Nuisances
   
92.20   Health nuisances; notice and abatement
   
92.21   Sanitary facilities; requirements and nuisance conditions
Nuisance Abatement and Remediation
   
92.35   Remedies against nuisances
   
92.36   Abatement process
   
92.37   Summary abatement in dangerous circumstances
   
92.38   Abatement by suit in District Court
   
92.39   Procedures cumulative
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty, or any thing
or condition which either:
         (a)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
         (d)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use
of property.
      (2)   However, this definition shall not apply to preexisting
agricultural activities.
   PRIVATE NUISANCE. Every nuisance not included in the definition of “public
nuisance” as defined herein is a PRIVATE NUISANCE.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. One which affects at the same time an entire community or
neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 92.02 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee or other person, to create or maintain a nuisance within the town or to
permit a nuisance to remain on a premises under his or her control within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 SUCCESSIVE OWNERS LIABLE.
   Every successive owner of a property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property which was created by a former
owner is liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 92.04 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE NUISANCES.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public rights.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)
§ 92.05 CERTAIN NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Nuisances enumerated. In addition to other public nuisances declared
by other sections of this code or by law, the following are hereby declared to
be public nuisances:
      (1)   Unwholesome food or drink. The sale or offering for sale of
unwholesome food or drink, or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made;
      (2)   Intoxicating liquor. The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of
intoxicating liquor in violation of state law or the ordinances of the town, or
the keeping of a place where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or
furnished in violation of state law or the ordinances of the town;
      (3)   Obscene materials. The exposure, display, sale or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects, or
the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      (4)   Gambling places. The keeping of a place where persons gamble,
whether by cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      (5)   Places of prostitution. The keeping of a place where prostitution,
illicit sexual intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (6)   Places where illegal activities are conducted. The keeping of a
place where activities in violation of state law or ordinance are practiced or
carried on;
      (7)   Noisy conditions. The continued making of loud or unusual noises
which annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities, or the keeping of an animal
which makes such noises;
      (8)   Interfering with wireless reception. The operation or use of any
electrical apparatus or machine which materially or unduly interferes with
radio or television reception by others;
      (9)   Assemblies obstructing traffic. Any use of a street or sidewalk or
a place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance;
      (10)   Water flowing, ice or snow falling upon streets. Permitting water
or other liquids to flow or fall, or ice or snow to fall, from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      (11)   Stagnant water bodies. All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or
containers of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which
are constructed, formed, conditioned or situated so as to endanger the public
safety;
      (12)   Unwholesome accumulations and premises. Rank weeds or grass,
carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or other things which are, or are
likely to be, breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs,
and the premises on which such exist;
      (13)   Dangerous structures. Any building or structure which is dangerous
to the public health or safety because of damage, decay or other conditions;
      (14)   Dangerous premises. Any pit, hole or other thing which is
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated so as to endanger the public
safety;
      (15)   Fire and explosion hazards. Any fire or explosion hazard which
endangers the public safety;
      (16)   Dangerous businesses. Any occupation or activity which endangers
the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare;
      (17)   Unlicensed stored vehicles. When stored or kept in a residence
district, any motor vehicle, whether in operating condition or not, or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways; and
      (18)   Animal shelters and noises. Any stable or other place where
animals are kept which may become obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the
town by reason of any noise or noises made by the animal or animals therein, or
by reason of a lack of sanitation.
   (B)   Enumeration cumulative. The enumeration of certain public nuisances in
division (A) above shall be cumulative and shall not limit other provisions of
law or ordinance defining public or private nuisances either in more general or
more specific terms.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 TOWN POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE.
   (A)   Power to define. As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the town has the power
to determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate
limits, and for the protection of the public health, public parks and public
water supply, what is and what shall constitute a nuisance outside of its
corporate limits.
   (B)   Power to abate. Whenever it is practical to do so, the town has the
power to summarily abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an
opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can be done.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5)
HEALTH AND SANITARY NUISANCES
§ 92.20 HEALTH NUISANCES; NOTICE AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Authority of Health Officer; notice to abate.
      (1)   Pursuant to the authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the Health
Officer shall have the authority to order the owner, lessee or occupant of any
private premises in the town to remove from such premises, at his or her own
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness or condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents which might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
24 hours, or within such other time as may be directed in writing, which order
may be served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises or on an
authorized agent thereof by the Health Officer or a police officer, or a copy
thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant or
agent, if such is known and within the state.
      (2)   If the premises is unoccupied and the residence of the owner,
occupant or agent is unknown or is without the state, then the order may be
served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town.
   (B)   Abatement by town; costs. If the order is not complied with, then the
Health Officer may cause the order to be executed and complied with, and the
cost thereof shall be certified to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   The cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be added to the
water bill or other town utility bill of the owner or occupant if he or she is
a user of water from the town water system or such other utility service. The
cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it is added and
shall become due and payable and subject to the same regulations relating to
delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself.
      (2)   If such owner or occupant is not a user of any town utility
service, then such cost, after certification to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, may
be collected in any manner in which any other debt due the town may be
collected.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.21 SANITARY FACILITIES; REQUIREMENTS AND NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharges of human beings.
      SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as
to conform with the specifications approved by the State Health Department.
      SANITARY WATER CLOSET. A flush-type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction so as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   (B)   Sanitary facilities required; septic tanks.
      (1)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans
reside, are employed or congregate within the town shall install, equip and
maintain adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by
use of a sanitary water closet or sanitary pit privy. The closets and toilets
hereby required shall be of a sanitary water closet-type when located within
150 feet of a sanitary sewer and accessible thereto or of a sanitary water
closet-type, notwithstanding a greater distance from a sanitary sewer, a water
closet-type emptying into a septic tank system or a pit privy-type.
      (2)   A septic tank system or a pit privy may be used in such cases only
if such meets the standards of and is approved by the State Health Department.
   (C)   Disposal of human excrement. All human excrement disposed of within
the town shall be disposed of by depositing it in closets and privies of the
types provided for in this section. It is unlawful for any owner of property
within the town to permit the disposal of human excrement thereon in any other
manner or for any person to dispose of human excrement within the town in any
other manner.
   (D)   Sanitary condition of privies.
      (1)   All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and the
covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times when the
privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen slop or anything other than
human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy.
      (2)   No excrement from any person suffering from typhoid fever,
dysentery or other serious bowel diseases shall be deposited in any sanitary
pit privy or sanitary water closet until it is disinfected in such a manner as
may be prescribed by the Health Officer.
   (E)   Maintaining a public nuisance unlawful.
      (1)   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this section and all privies and closets
constructed, situated or maintained so as to endanger the public health are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and may be dealt with and abated as
such.
      (2)   Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense,
and each day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
NUISANCE ABATEMENT AND REMEDIATION
§ 92.35 REMEDIES AGAINST NUISANCES.
   (A)   Public nuisances. The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      (3)   Civil action; or
      (4)   Abatement:
         (a)   By a person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
         (b)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
   (B)   Private nuisances. The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      (1)   Civil action; or
      (2)   Abatement:
         (a)   By a person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
         (b)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4)
§ 92.36 ABATEMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   Submission of statement of nuisance.
      (1)   The Fire Chief, the Police Chief, the Town Attorney, the Building
Inspector, the Electrical Inspector, the Plumbing Inspector or any other
officer subordinate to the Mayor may submit, through or with the consent of the
Mayor, to the Town Board of Trustees a statement as to the existence of a
nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the town or law and a request or
recommendation that it be abated.
      (2)   The Mayor himself or herself, the Health Officer, the Board of
Trustees or any resident or residents of the town may submit such a statement
to the Board of Trustees and request a recommendation.
   (B)   Notice of hearing.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the
subject, the Board of Trustees shall have the power to subpoena and examine
witnesses, books, papers and other effects.
      (2)   Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or to have it abated, the
Board of Trustees shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to
the owner of any property concerned and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if
such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the
owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by
service by a police officer if his, her or their names and addresses are known,
but if the names or addresses are not known and the peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare of the person, persons or public adversely affected would not
be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, then a notice of the hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the town.
   (C)   Board action; order abatement; assessment of costs.
      (1)   If the Board of Trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact exist,
then it shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance to abate it within a specified time, provided that the peace, health,
safety, morals or welfare of the person, persons or public adversely affected
would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If the owner or other
persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the
specified time, then the Board of Trustees shall direct the Mayor to abate the
nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized
by 50 O.S. § 16.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall send a statement of the cost of such
summary abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if his, her or their names
and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the
town collectible as other debts to the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.37 SUMMARY ABATEMENT IN DANGEROUS CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Some nuisances are of such nature so as to constitute a grave and immediate
danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more persons
or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be such so
as to justify, and even to require, the Mayor or other appropriate officer or
agency of the town government to take immediate and proper action summarily to
abate such nuisances or to reduce or suspend the danger until more deliberate
action can be taken toward such abatement.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-7)
§ 92.38 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical to summarily abate a nuisance, the
town may bring suit in the County District Court as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-8)
§ 92.39 PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative to any other
penalties or procedures authorized.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-12)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES AND APPLIANCES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Leaving vehicle or appliance unlawful
   
93.03   Abandoned refrigerators
   
93.04   Exceptions
   
93.05   Notice to remove, content and issuance
   
93.06   Request for hearing
   
93.07   Responsibility for removal
   
93.08   Removing junked vehicle or appliance after noncompliance
   
93.09   Notice of removal, content and issuance
   
93.10   Liability of owner or occupant after removal
   
93.11   Disposal and sale
   
93.12   Costs certified to County Treasurer
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Garbage collection and disposal, see
Ch. 53
   Obstructing rights-of-way, see §
152.01
   Vehicle impoundment, see
Ch. 74
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCE. Any equipment, instrument or article designed for household,
office or commercial use, including furniture.
   JUNKED APPLIANCE. Any appliance which is wrecked, dismantled, partially
dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is wrecked, dismantled,
partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground, which shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles,
buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-karts and
golf carts.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not public
property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property which is dedicated to public use and over which a
federal, state, county or town government, or an agency or agencies thereof,
exercises control and dominion.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1)
§ 93.02 LEAVING VEHICLE OR APPLIANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to park, store or leave, or to permit the
parking, storing or leaving of, any junked motor vehicle or junked appliance,
whether attended or not, upon any public or private property within the town
for a period of time in excess of 72 hours. The presence of any junked motor
vehicle, junked appliance or parts thereof on private or public property is
hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance
with this chapter or by applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall leave outside of any building or dwelling in a place
accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox or
refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an airtight door or
lock or an airtight snap lock which may not be released or opened from the
inside of the icebox, refrigerator or container.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-13) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any motor vehicle or appliance enclosed
within a building on private property or held in connection with a lawful
business enterprise conducted in the town, or to any motor vehicle which is:
   (A)   In an operable condition specifically adapted or designed for
operation on drag strips or raceways; or
   (B)   Retained by the owner for antique-collection purposes in a storage
place maintained in a lawful place and manner.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2)
§ 93.05 NOTICE TO REMOVE, CONTENT AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Serving of notice.
      (1)   Whenever it comes to the attention of the administrative officer of
the town or his or her designee that any nuisance as defined in this chapter
exists in the town, a notice in writing shall be served upon the occupant of
the land where the nuisance exists.
      (2)   In cases where there is no such occupant, it shall be served upon
the owner of the property or his or her agent, notifying them of the existence
of the nuisance and requesting its removal within the time specified in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-3)
   (B)   Content of notice. The notice shall contain the request for removal
within the time specified in this chapter and shall advise that upon failure to
comply with the notice to remove, the town shall prosecute a complaint for
failure to abate the nuisance or shall undertake such removal, with the cost to
be levied against the owner or occupant of the property.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-6)
   (C)   Notice procedure. The administrative officer of the town or his or her
designee shall give such notice of removal to the owner or occupant of the
private property where the junked motor vehicle or junked appliance is located
at least ten days before the time of compliance. It shall constitute sufficient
notice when a copy of the notice is posted in a conspicuous place upon the
private property upon which the junked motor vehicle or junked appliance is
located and duplicate copies are sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner or occupant of the private property at his or her last
known address.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-5)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   A person to whom a notice is directed or his or her duly-authorized agent
may file a written request for hearing before the Town Board of Trustees within
the ten-day period of compliance for the purpose of defending the charges by
the town. The hearing shall be held as soon as is practicable after the filing
of the request, and all persons to whom a notice is directed shall be advised
of the time and place of the hearing. At any such hearing, the town and any
person to whom a notice has been directed may introduce such witnesses and
evidence as either party deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-7)
§ 93.07 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the junked
motor vehicle or junked appliance and the owner or occupant of the private
property on which the same is located, either or all of them, shall be
responsible for its removal. In the event of a removal and disposition by the
town or its designee, the owner or occupant of the private property where the
same is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-4)
§ 93.08 REMOVING JUNKED VEHICLE OR APPLIANCE AFTER NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied within
the ten-day period of compliance or in the event that a notice to the owner or
occupant requesting the removal of a vehicle or appliance has not been complied
with, and this fact is affirmed by the Town Board of Trustees, then the
administrative officer of the town or his or her designee shall continue to
prosecute charges on a daily basis for failure to abate the nuisance, and shall
also have the right to take possession of the junked motor vehicle or junked
appliance and remove it from the premises.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or refuse to
allow such person to enter upon private property for the purpose of removing a
junked vehicle or appliance under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-8) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 NOTICE OF REMOVAL, CONTENT AND ISSUANCE.
   Within 48 hours after the removal of any junked vehicle or junked appliance,
the administrative officer of the town or his or her designee shall give notice
to the registered owner of a vehicle, if known, and notice to the owner or
occupant of the private property from which the vehicle or appliance was
removed that the vehicle or appliance has been impounded and stored for
violation of this chapter and will be disposed of or sold if not reclaimed as
provided herein, along with the payment of all costs. The notice shall give the
location where the vehicle or appliance is stored and the proper procedure for
redeeming the vehicle or appliance, including the cost of redemption.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-9)
§ 93.10 LIABILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT AFTER REMOVAL.
   Upon failure of the owner or occupant of the property from which a junked
motor vehicle or junked appliance has been removed by the town to pay the
unrecovered expense incurred by the town in such removal, the amount of the
unrecovered cost may be recovered in the same manner as such bills.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-11) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 DISPOSAL AND SALE.
   If the vehicle or appliance remains unclaimed for 60 days after providing or
mailing the notice provided herein, then the Police Chief is authorized to
dispose of or sell the property in accordance with §§
33.004 through
33.008 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-10)
§ 93.12 COSTS CERTIFIED TO COUNTY TREASURER.
   If the private property is not served by town utilities or if collection
efforts are not successful, then the cost may be certified by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer to the County Treasurer, who shall add the same to the ad valorem
taxes assessed against the property until paid; such shall be collected in the
same manner as ad valorem taxes assessed against the property until paid, and
when collected, shall be paid to the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-12)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the procedure set out herein for the removal of any junked
motor vehicle or junked appliance, any person who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-14)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Cruelty to animals unlawful
   
94.03   Rabies control and procedures
   
94.04   Cleanliness of premises
   
94.05   Buildings for animals
   
94.06   Inspection of premises upon complaint
   
94.07   Animals disturbing peace and quiet
   
94.08   Animals running at large
   
94.09   Pasturing in public areas
   
94.10   Kennels and catteries prohibited
   
94.11   Swine prohibited; exception
   
94.12   Hoofed animals in residential areas restricted
   
94.13   Wild, exotic or dangerous animals restricted
   
94.14   Zoning ordinance to prevail
Dogs and Cats
   
94.25   Number per household restricted
   
94.26   Vaccination and proof of vaccination required
   
94.27   Dog licensing and registration; license fee
   
94.28   Dog licence fee exceptions
   
94.29   Dog tag issuance, term and display
   
94.30   Dog tag replacement; nontransferability
   
94.31   Dog tag counterfeiting; placement on another dog
   
94.32   Authority to order animals muzzled or confined
   
94.33   Killing vicious dog permissible in defense
Animal Shelter and Impoundment
   
94.45   Animal shelter establishment and administration
   
94.46   Authority to impound
   
94.47   Registration and disposition of impounded animal
   
94.48   Notice to owner of impoundment
   
94.49   Reclamation of impounded animal
   
94.50   Fees for impoundment
   
94.51   Destruction or sale of impounded animal
   
94.52   Interference and breaking pound unlawful
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey or other animal or fowl.
   AT LARGE.
      (1)   Not securely confined by a fence or other means on a premises under
the control of or occupied by the owner; or
      (2)   Not under the control of the owner, a member of his or her
immediate family over 12 years of age or an agent of the owner by leash,
whether on the owner’s premises or not.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal
remains or to which it customarily returns for a period of ten days or more
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog which has bitten or attempted to bite any person without
due provocation, or which attacks, or barks or growls at and acts as if it
intends to attack or bite, or bites, a person when not duly provoked.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1)
§ 94.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Cruel treatment. It is unlawful for any person to willfully,
maliciously or knowingly treat an animal, bird or fowl in a cruel or inhumane
manner, or to knowingly neglect an animal, bird or fowl belonging to him or her
or in his or her custody in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   (B)   Poisoning animals. It is unlawful for a person to willfully poison any
dog or other animal, except for a noxious, nondomesticated animal, or to
knowingly expose poison so that the same may be taken by such animal.
   (C)   Encouraging animals to fight. It is unlawful for any person to
instigate or encourage a fight between animals or to encourage one animal to
attack, pursue or annoy another animal, except for a noxious, nondomesticated
animal, or to keep a house, pit or other place used for fights between animals.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-10) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 RABIES CONTROL AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Animal biting a person; quarantine. Every animal which bites or
scratches a person shall be reported within four hours to the Police Chief or
Animal Control Officer and thereupon securely quarantined at the town animal
shelter for a period of ten days, and shall not be released from such
quarantine except by permission of the Health Officer of the town and a
licensed veterinarian hospital chosen by the owner, if the owner agrees to pay
for the quarantine in advance. Failure of the owner to quarantine his or her
animal will make him or her guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Quarantine of stray or unidentified animal. In the case of a stray
animal, or in the case of an animal whose ownership is not known, such
quarantine shall be at the animal shelter.
   (C)   Surrender of animal for quarantine; cost and reclamation. The owner,
upon a demand by an employee empowered to enforce this subchapter, shall
forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten or scratched a human, or which
is suspected of having been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine, the
expenses for which shall be borne by the owner, and such animal may be
reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies.
   (D)   Disposition of infected animal. When an animal under quarantine has
been diagnosed as being rabid, or is suspected by a licensed veterinarian of
being rabid, and dies while under such observation, the Animal Control Officer
or veterinarian shall immediately send the head of such animal to the State
Health Department for pathological examination, and shall notify the proper
public health officer of reports of human contact and the diagnosis made of the
suspected animal.
   (E)   Positive diagnosis; townwide quarantine.
      (1)   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
Health Officer of the town may recommend a townwide quarantine for a period of
six months, and upon the invoking of such quarantine, no animal shall be taken
into the streets or permitted to be in the streets during such period of
quarantine.
      (2)   During such quarantine, no animal shall be taken or shipped from
the town without the written permission of the Health Officer of the town or
the Animal Control Officer.
   (F)   Treatment for rabies infection. During such period of rabies
quarantine as herein designated, every animal bitten by an animal adjudged to
be rabid shall be treated for such rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian
or held under six months’ quarantine by the owner in the same manner as other
animals are quarantined.
   (G)   Extending quarantine period. In the event there are additional
positive cases of rabies occurring during the period of quarantine, such period
of quarantine may be extended for an additional six months.
   (H)   Killing or removing animal. No person shall kill or cause to be killed
any rabid animal, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies or any
animal biting or scratching a human, except as herein provided, nor shall any
person remove the same from the town limits without written permission from the
Health Officer of the town or the Animal Control Officer.
   (I)   Disposition of animal carcass. The carcass of any animal exposed to
rabies shall, upon demand, be surrendered to the Animal Control Officer.
   (J)   Disposition of infected animal. The Animal Control Officer shall
direct the disposition of any animal found to be infected with rabies.
   (K)   Refusal to surrender animal. No person shall fail or refuse to
surrender any animal for quarantine or destruction as required herein when a
demand is made therefor by an employee empowered to enforce this subchapter.
Such refusal shall be deemed an offense.
   (L)   Duty of physicians and veterinarians. It is the duty of every
physician, veterinarian or other practitioner to report to the Animal Control
Officer the names and addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by
animals, together with such other information as will be helpful in rabies
control.
   (M)   Reports to Town Animal Control Officer. It is the duty of every
licensed veterinarian to report to the Town Animal Control Officer his or her
diagnosis of any animal observed by him or her to be a rabies suspect.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-9) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 CLEANLINESS OF PREMISES.
   Every place or building wherein an animal is kept or permitted to be kept
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, devoid of rodents and
vermin and free from objectionable odors.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-7) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS.
   (A)   Fur-bearing animals. Every building wherein any animal raised for fur-
bearing purposes is kept within the town shall be constructed of such material
and in such a manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times.
   (B)   Receptacles for manure.
      (1)   Every such building, if located within 200 feet of any apartment
house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for
educational, religious or hospital purposes or residence, other than the
residence occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such
animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight and flytight receptacle for
manure of such a size so as to hold all accumulations of manure. No manure
shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in such receptacle.
      (2)   Such receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such a
manner so as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept
covered at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure
or refuse.
   (C)   Location. No building or other establishment wherein animals are kept
shall be maintained closer than 200 feet to any apartment house, hotel,
restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for educational,
religious or hospital purposes or residence, other than the residence occupied
by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal is kept.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-6) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 INSPECTION OF PREMISES UPON COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Upon the complaint of any person, the Health Officer or the Police
Chief shall inspect any structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do
so on his or her own initiative.
   (B)   He or she may issue to the owner of the animal any such reasonable
order as he or she may deem necessary to cause the animal to be kept as
provided in this subchapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance.
   (C)   He or she may make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any
person for a violation of any provision of this subchapter or of any such
reasonable order, but this procedure shall not abridge the right of others to
make such complaint.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-8)
§ 94.07 ANIMALS DISTURBING PEACE AND QUIET.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within
the town any dog or other animal which disturbs the peace and quiet of any
person by barking, howling or otherwise.
   (B)   Nuisance declared. The keeping of such an animal is hereby declared a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-4) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Animals. No owner shall permit any animal, including fowl, which is
owned, harbored or kept by such owner to be at large within the town. It is
unlawful for any animal as provided in this division (A) to be at large at any
time within the town.
   (B)   Dogs. Licensed dogs which are not vicious and wear a tag may not be at
large. It is unlawful for an owner to permit a licensed dog without a tag, an
unlicensed dog or a vicious dog to be at large.
   (C)   Turning animals at large. It is unlawful for any person to open any
enclosure in which any animal is confined as required by ordinance so as to
turn the animal at large, or in any manner to turn such animal at large.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2) (Ord. 91-02, passed 7-8-1991) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, whether federal, state, town or
other, on any railroad right-of-way or on any property without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 KENNELS AND CATTERIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be prohibited for any person to maintain a kennel or cattery within
the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-11) (Ord. 08-02, passed 6-10-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 SWINE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person being the owner of or
having the care, custody or control of any hogs, shoats or pigs to keep or
allow such hogs, shoats or pigs at any time in any enclosure within the town,
or on any lot therein, or to run at large within the town.
   (B)   Exception. However, any shipper may hold swine in the stockyards
temporarily while preparing for shipment of the swine.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-5) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 HOOFED ANIMALS IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is to regulate the keeping of livestock on small
lots in residential areas inside of town limits.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      LIVESTOCK. Includes any hoofed animals or listed animals, such as cattle,
bison, swine, llamas, camels, horses, ponies, donkeys, mules and any other
hoofed animals.
   (C)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or
maintain care, custody or control over any hoofed animals, or livestock,
anyplace inside the town limits. This shall not prohibit hoofed animals from
being transported expeditiously through the town.
   (D)   Animals present before prohibition, requirements.
      (1)   Any resident who had hoofed animals, or livestock, at the time this
section went into effect shall have been notified and must have registered the
animals in their possession at that time.
      (2)   Livestock may not be replaced. As property owners remove, sell or
adopt the current animals, or the like, they may not be replaced with other
livestock inside the town limits.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 4-10-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 WILD, EXOTIC OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is to regulate the ownership of any wild, exotic
or dangerous animals inside the town limits.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      WILD, EXOTIC OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal of the large variety which is
usually not a domestic animal and which can normally be found in the wild
state, with or without means or vicious propensities, including, but not
limited to, lions, tigers, leopards, panthers, bears, wolves, alligators,
crocodiles, apes, foxes, elephants, rhinoceroses, all forms of poisonous
snakes, lynxes, raccoons, skunks, monkeys and other like animals.
   (C)   Prohibition.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or maintain
care of any wild, exotic or dangerous animal inside the town limits as a pet,
for display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee.
      (2)   This does not apply to such animals kept for temporary periods of
time for exhibition purposes only by circuses, zoos and educational
institutions. The term TEMPORARY PERIODS OF TIME shall be defined as, and shall
be limited to, a period of time not to exceed one week per year.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 2-13-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL.
   In the case of a conflict between this subchapter and the present or any
future zoning ordinance, the provisions of the zoning ordinance shall prevail
and supersede the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-12)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 94.25 NUMBER PER HOUSEHOLD RESTRICTED.
   Each household, regardless of the number of owners residing therein, may
maintain and shelter not more than five domestic animals of whatever
combination, such as two dogs and three cats, provided, however, that in the
event that any one of the animals sheltered has a litter or offspring, one
owner shall have six weeks from the date of birth of said offspring to return
said household to a total combined number of five animals.
(Prior Code, § 6-7A-2) (Ord. 03-05, passed 10-14-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 VACCINATION AND PROOF OF VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Requirement. The owner or keeper of any dog or cat of six months of
age or older within the town limits shall have the dog or cat vaccinated
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian every calendar year before July 1
thereof.
   (B)   Affix proof of vaccination to collar. Owners shall affix or have
affixed to the collar or harness of each vaccinated dog or cat a metal disc
with sufficient information thereon that the vaccination certificate covering
such animal may be readily traced.
(Prior Code, § 6-7A-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 DOG LICENSING AND REGISTRATION; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   If over six months of age, all dogs kept, harbored or maintained by
their owners in the town shall be licensed and registered each year on or
before the anniversary date of the initial issuance of such dog’s license, or
within 15 days after such dog is brought into the town.
   (B)   Dog licenses shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer upon submission by
the owner of a certificate of vaccination signed by a licensed veterinarian and
upon payment of a license fee as set by the Board for each male, neutered male
or spayed female and for each unspayed female.
   (C)   The owner shall state at the time when application is made for such
license and upon printed forms provided for such purpose his or her name and
address, the name, breed, color and sex of each dog that is owned or kept by
him or her and such other reasonable information as the Clerk-Treasurer might
request.
(Prior Code, § 6-7A-1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 DOG LICENCE FEE EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The fee provisions shall not apply to:
      (1)   Dogs only temporarily brought to and kept within the town, nor to a
dog brought within the town to participate in a dog show;
      (2)   Seeing eye dogs properly trained to assist blind persons if such
dogs are actually being used by blind persons to assist them in moving from
place to place;
      (3)   Hearing dogs properly trained to assist deaf persons if such dogs
are actually used by deaf persons to aid them in responding to sounds; or
      (4)   Dogs especially trained to assist officials of government agencies
in the performance of their duties and which are owned by such agencies.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to exempt any dog
from having a current rabies vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 6-7A-1)
§ 94.29 DOG TAG ISSUANCE, TERM AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   Upon payment of the license fee, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to
the owner a license certificate and a tag for each dog so licensed.
   (B)   Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar, to
which the license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag
are consistently worn by the dog.
   (C)   Licenses shall expire on June 30.
(Prior Code, § 6-7A-1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.30 DOG TAG REPLACEMENT; NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   In cases where a tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued
by the Clerk-Treasurer upon proof of receipt showing the payment of the license
fee for the current year and the payment of a fee as set by the Board of
Trustees for such duplicate.
   (B)   Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another, and no
refunds shall be made on any dog license fee because of the death of the dog or
the owner’s leaving town before the expiration of the license period.
(Prior Code, § 6-7A-1)
§ 94.31 DOG TAG COUNTERFEITING; PLACEMENT ON ANOTHER DOG.
   No person shall counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit any tag issued for a
dog as provided in this subchapter, nor take from any dog a tag legally placed
upon it, nor place such tag upon a dog for which the tag was not specifically
issued.
(Prior Code, § 6-7A-1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.32 AUTHORITY TO ORDER ANIMALS MUZZLED OR CONFINED.
   (A)   Order to muzzle or confine; publication.
      (1)   When the Health Officer determines and certifies that a dog, cat or
other animal in the town or within five miles of the town is or was infected
with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the town, the Board of
Trustees, by resolution, may order all dogs to be muzzled when at large within
the town, and if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during a period of
time to be determined by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Such resolution or an adequate notice of its passage shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the town and shall go
into effect on the date following such publication, unless the resolution
prescribes a later time.
   (B)   Compliance required. While such resolution is in effect, it is
unlawful for any owner to permit an unmuzzled dog or a cat to be at large in
violation of such resolution, or for any such dog or cat to be at large in
violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-7A-5) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.33 KILLING VICIOUS DOG PERMISSIBLE IN DEFENSE.
   Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another when the
dog, without due provocation, bites him, her or the other, or attacks, or
attempts to bite or attack him, her or the other in such a manner that an
ordinarily-prudent person would be led to believe that the person toward whom
the efforts of the dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise
physically harmed.
(Prior Code, § 6-7A-4)
ANIMAL SHELTER AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 94.45 ANIMAL SHELTER ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   A town animal shelter is hereby established and shall be under the
immediate control of the Animal Control Officer or such other person as may be
officially designated. The person in charge of the shelter pound shall provide
proper sustenance for all animals impounded and shall treat them in a humane
manner.
   (B)   The town may contract with another agency for the use of a shelter
maintained by the agency.
(Prior Code, § 6-7B-1)
§ 94.46 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer, a police officer or such other officer or
employee of the town as the Town Board of Trustees may authorize shall take
into custody and impound any animal found at large or in violation of any
provisions of this code and the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   In taking an animal into custody under the authority of this section,
the Animal Control Officer or other officer or employee may enter into private
property to gain custody of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-7B-2)
§ 94.47 REGISTRATION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Registering impounded animal. The Animal Control Officer, upon
receiving any animal, shall make a complete registry, entering the breed, color
and sex of such animal, whether or not it is licensed and the date of
impoundment. If a dog is licensed, then the Animal Control Officer shall enter
the name and address of the owner and the number of the license tag.
   (B)   Disposition of animal. It is the duty of the Animal Control Officer to
keep all animals impounded for a period of 72 hours. All inquiries concerning
lost or impounded animals shall be directed to the Animal Control Officer, and
after an animal has been destroyed, the Animal Control Officer shall be
required to dispose of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-7B-2)
§ 94.48 NOTICE TO OWNER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Not later than 48 hours after impounding any animal, the town shall call the
owner, if known, or shall mail notice to the address shown on town records, if
any, to notify him or her of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-7B-2)
§ 94.49 RECLAMATION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Proof of ownership and vaccination. Reclamation of an impounded animal
may be made as provided in this section. The party desiring to reclaim an
animal shall present to the Animal Control Officer, or to another employee who
may be designated by the Town Board of Trustees, proof of ownership and proof
that any dog or cat is currently vaccinated for rabies, or shall return proof
of vaccination within three days after the date the animal is released.
   (B)   Payment of fees. The party desiring to reclaim an animal shall pay the
applicable pound fees and show evidence to the Animal Control Officer that the
fees have been paid.
   (C)   Release of animal. The Animal Control Officer shall thereupon release
the reclaimed animal to the party.
(Prior Code, § 6-7B-5)
§ 94.50 FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Fees set by Board.
Type Amount
Type                          Amount
Adoption fee                  $10
Boarding fee, per day         $5
Parvo, distemper vaccinations $5
Pick-up fee                   $10
Rabies vaccination            $10
Surrender fee                 $25
Total adoption fee            $25
 
   (B)   Payment of fees prior to release. Any person redeeming an impounded
animal shall pay the required fees to the Clerk-Treasurer and present his or
her receipt therefor to the person in charge of the pound before the latter
releases the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-7B-4) (Res. 09-05, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 94.51 DESTRUCTION OR SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Destruction. At the end of the period prescribed in this subchapter,
animals which have not been redeemed by the owner thereof shall be destroyed in
a humane manner or sold in the manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Sale procedure.
      (1)   The sales herein provided for shall be conducted by the person in
charge of the animal shelter or such other persons as may be designated by the
Town Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Such sales shall be for cash to the highest bidder, but an animal
shall not be sold in any event for less than that sum required to cover the
impounding fee, boarding bill, vaccination fees and license fees, where
applicable. If there is no bid or if an insufficient amount is bid as herein
provided, then the person in charge of the pound shall destroy such animal,
unless he or she believes it to be for the best interest of the town to retain
the animal and offer it for sale again.
      (3)   The proceeds of the sale, less any vaccination fees, which shall be
paid to the person administering the vaccination, shall be forthwith delivered
to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Purchaser to acquire title. The purchaser of any animal at a sale held
as provided herein shall acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
   (D)   Excess money claimed by owner. At any time within three months after
the sale, the owner of an impounded animal sold as provided herein may claim
the excess of the sale price of the animal above the fees for impounding and
keeping the same and a fee as set by the Town Board to reimburse the town for
any expenses it has had in making the sale. If a claim is so made and approved
by the Board of Trustees, then the Clerk-Treasurer shall pay him or her such
excess. If a claim is not so made, then the excess shall belong to the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-7B-6)
§ 94.52 INTERFERENCE AND BREAKING POUND UNLAWFUL.
   No unauthorized person shall:
   (A)   Break open or attempt to break open the pound, nor take or let out any
animal therefrom;
   (B)   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the town any
animal taken into custody as provided by this subchapter; or
   (C)   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his or her duties relating to the taking into custody and
impounding of animals as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-7B-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any ordinance or
provision of this chapter other than as addressed in divisions (C) and (D)
below or who violates, refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable order
made by the Health Officer pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-13)
   (B)   A violation of the provisions of §
94.10 of this chapter shall constitute an offense subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-11)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
94.12(C) of this chapter shall be issued a warning for a first offense. Upon
conviction of continued violation, a fine will be imposed. Each animal in said
possession constitutes one violation.
      (2)   Any person, association, corporation, copartnership, firm or entity
who violates any of the provisions of §
94.12 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 plus court costs and
fees.
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
94.13(C) of this chapter shall be issued a warning for a first offence. Upon
conviction of continued violation, a fine may be imposed. Each animal in said
possession constitutes one violation.
   (E)   A violation of §
94.25 of this chapter shall constitute an offense subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-7A-2)
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of §
94.49 of this chapter or failing to return proof of vaccination as provided
therein shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-7B-5)
(Ord. 03-05, passed 10-14-2003; Ord. 08-02, passed 6-10-2008; Ord. 18-02,
passed 2-13-2018; Ord. 18-01, passed 4-10-2018)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Recreational Facilities; Fishing and Hunting
   
95.01   Rules and regulations
   
95.02   Fees
   
95.03   Compliance required
 
   
95.99   Penalty
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES; FISHING AND HUNTING
§ 95.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall promulgate, invoke, create, amend and enforce
such rules, regulations, and other requirements as it deems necessary or
expedient in connection with fishing and fishing privileges, hunting and
hunting privileges, boating and boating privileges, swimming and the use of all
other recreational facilities owned or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 95.02 FEES.
   The town shall from time to time provide by ordinance the fees charged for
any such recreational privileges on any property or facility for recreational
purposes owned or operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
§ 95.03 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any of such recreational facilities or
to hunt, fish, swim or use any boat in connection with any of the recreational
facilities owned or operated by the town without having complied with the rules
and regulations promulgated by the Board of Trustees in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Anyone violating any of the rules and regulations of §§
95.01 through
95.03 of this chapter or failing to comply with such shall be guilty of an
offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   ITINERANT VENDORS AND SOLICITATION
      
112.   FOOD SERVICES
      
113.   ALCOHOL
      
114.   PLUMBING WORK
      
115.   DANGEROUS AND RESTRICTED MATERIALS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Title
   
110.02   Scope
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   License or permit required
   
110.05   Enforcement and inspections
   
110.06   Application and fee
   
110.07   Applicant qualifications
   
110.08   Issuance procedure
   
110.09   License issuance and term
   
110.10   Denial and appeal
   
110.11   Renewal or duplication
   
110.12   License contents
   
110.13   Licensee duties
   
110.14   Revocation and hearing
   
110.15   Appeal procedure
   
110.16   Exemption
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “General Licensing
Ordinance of Quapaw.”
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 110.02 SCOPE.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way
impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances. Where
this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon persons, premises or personal
property than is imposed or required by such existing provisions of law,
ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 110.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. All kinds of vocations, occupations, professions, enterprises and
establishments and all other kinds of activities and matters, together with all
devices, machines, vehicles and appurtenances used therein, which are conducted
for private profit or benefit, either directly or indirectly, on any premises
in the town or anywhere else within its jurisdiction.
   LICENSE or PERMIT. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   PERSON. Individual natural persons, partnerships, joint ventures, societies,
associations, clubs, trustees, trusts or corporations, or any officers, agents,
employees or factors, or any kind of personal representations of any thereof in
any capacity, acting either for himself, herself or any other person under
either personal appointment or pursuant to law.
   PREMISES. All lands, structures and places, and also the equipment and
appurtenances connected or used therewith in any business, and also any
personal property which is either affixed to or otherwise used in connection
with any such business conducted on such PREMISES.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 110.04 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, either directly or indirectly, to conduct any
business or nonprofit enterprise without a license or permit therefor being
first procured and kept in effect at all such times as required by this chapter
or by other law or ordinance of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Persons authorized to inspect. The following persons are authorized to
conduct inspections in the manner prescribed herein.
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer or other town employee shall make all
investigations reasonably necessary to the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall have the authority to order
inspections of licensees, their businesses and their premises by all town
officials having duties to perform with reference to such licensees or
businesses.
   (B)   Premises to be inspected. All persons authorized herein to inspect
licensees and businesses shall have the authority to enter at all reasonable
times, with or without a search warrant, the following premises:
      (1)   Those for which a license is required;
      (2)   Those for which a license was issued and which, at the time of
inspection, are operating under such license; and
      (3)   Those for which the license has been revoked or suspended.
   (C)   Reporting violations. Persons inspecting licensees, their businesses
or their premises as herein authorized shall report all violations of this
chapter or of other laws or ordinances to the Town Clerk- Treasurer and shall
submit such other reports as the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall order.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11)
§ 110.06 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Application for permit. An applicant for a special permit shall submit
an application therefor to the Town Clerk-Treasurer upon forms prescribed by
the Clerk-Treasurer and shall furnish such additional information and make such
affidavits as the Clerk-Treasurer shall require.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
   (B)   License fee. License fees shall be in the amounts as set by the Town
Board of Trustees from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 110.07 APPLICANT QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The general standards herein set out relative to the qualifications of
every applicant for a town license shall be considered and applied by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The following are required:
      (1)   History of applicant.
         (a)   The license history of the applicant;
         (b)   Whether such person, in previously operating in the state or in
another state under a license, has had such license revoked or suspended and
the reasons therefor; and
         (c)   The demeanor of the applicant subsequent to such action.
      (2)   Indebtedness to town. The applicant shall not be in default under
the provisions of this chapter or indebted or obligated in any manner to the
town except for current taxes.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 110.08 ISSUANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of any
ordinance or law of the town shall submit an application for such license to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The application shall:
      (1)   Be a written statement upon forms provided by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer; such forms shall include an affidavit, to be sworn to by the
applicant before a public notary of the state;
      (2)   Require the disclosure of all information necessary for compliance
with §
110.07 of this chapter and of any other information which the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall find to be reasonably necessary to the fair administration of
this chapter; and
      (3)   Be accompanied by the full amount of the fees chargeable for such
license.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 110.09 LICENSE ISSUANCE AND TERM.
   (A)   Issuance. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall collect all license fees,
shall issue licenses in the name of the town to all persons qualified under the
provisions of this chapter and shall use such forms as adopted by the Town
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Term. Unless otherwise provided, such license shall expire not later
than one year after issuance or on June 30 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6)
§ 110.10 DENIAL AND APPEAL.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall, upon disapproving any application submitted
under the provisions of this chapter, place the matter on the next agenda of
the Town Board of Trustees, where the applicant may appeal from the denial.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 110.11 RENEWAL OR DUPLICATION.
   (A)   Renewal application. An applicant for the renewal of a license shall
submit a renewal application for such license, together with the license fee,
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Duplicate license or permit. Upon payment to the Town Clerk-Treasurer
of a license fee, a duplicate license or special permit shall be issued by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer to replace any license previously issued which has been
lost, stolen, defaced or destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 110.12 LICENSE CONTENTS.
   Each license issued hereunder shall state upon its face, at minimum, the
following:
   (A)   The name of the licensee and any other name under which such business
is to be conducted;
   (B)   The kind and address of each business so licensed;
   (C)   The amount of license fee therefor;
   (D)   The date of issuance and expiration thereof; and
   (E)   Such other information as the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall determine.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9)
§ 110.13 LICENSEE DUTIES.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall:
   (A)   Permit all reasonable inspections of his or her business by public
authorities so authorized by law;
   (B)   Ascertain and at all times comply with all laws and regulations
applicable to such licensed business;
   (C)   Avoid all forbidden, improper or unnecessary practices or conditions
which do or may affect the public health, morals or welfare;
   (D)   Refrain from operating the licensed business on premises after the
expiration of his or her license and during the period when his or her license
is revoked or suspended;
   (E)   Post and maintain such license upon the licensed premises in a place
where it may be seen at all times; and
   (F)   Not loan, sell, give or assign to any other person, nor allow any
other person to use, display, destroy, damage, remove or have in his or her
possession, a license or insignia which has been issued to the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 REVOCATION AND HEARING.
   (A)   Limited revocation. Any license or permit may be revoked by the Mayor
for a limited time during the life of such license or permit for a violation by
the licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license or permit,
the subject of the license or permit or the premises occupied; such revocation
may be in addition to any fine imposed. The Mayor shall be authorized to
summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the premises and the
suspension of any business license or permit for a period not to exceed 15
days.
   (B)   Hearing.
      (1)   Calling a hearing. Within ten days after the Mayor has so acted,
the Mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
      (2)   Notice of hearing. Notice of a hearing for the revocation of a
license or permit shall be given in writing and set forth specifically the
grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice
shall be sent to the licensee or permittee by certified mail at his or her last
known address or personally served at least five days prior to the date of the
hearing.
      (3)   Hearing procedures. At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall
be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-
examine witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and the Town Board shall render the
decision and recommendation.
   (C)   Revocation after hearing, causes. Business licenses and permits issued
under the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked
by the Mayor after notice and hearing as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)
(3) above for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      (2)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit or the premises occupied;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owed to the town; or
      (5)   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any
interference with a duly-authorized officer or employee of the town while in
the performance of his or her duties in making such inspection, as provided in
the town code.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-12) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.15 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Right to appeal. Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the town to
issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the town’s decision to the Town Board. Such appeal
shall be requested by submitting a written request to the Mayor within five
days of the action of the town which is being appealed.
   (B)   Board consideration. The Board of Trustees shall consider the appeal
at its next regularly- scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant shall be
entitled to present his or her appeal orally or in writing. The Board of
Trustees shall act on the appeal within seven days of the hearing and shall
either:
      (1)   Uphold the action of the Mayor;
      (2)   Direct the issuance of the license or permit which the town has
denied; or
      (3)   Direct the reissuance of the license or permit which the town has
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-13)
§ 110.16 EXEMPTION.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue special permits, without the payment of
any license fees or other charges therefor, to any person or organization for
the conduct or operation of a nonprofit enterprise, either regularly or
temporarily, when he or she finds that the applicant operates without private
profit for a public, charitable, educational, literary, fraternal or religious
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-14)
CHAPTER 111: ITINERANT VENDORS AND SOLICITATION
Section
Itinerant Vendors
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application and fees
   
111.04   License nontransferable
   
111.05   Restrictions for business with private residents
   
111.06   Exemption for interstate commerce
 
   
111.99   Penalty
ITINERANT VENDORS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Includes all persons, firms or corporations, as well as
their agents and employees, who engage in the town in the temporary or
transient business of selling or offering for sale any goods or merchandise, or
in exhibiting the same for sale or for the purpose of taking orders for the
sale thereof, and who, for the purpose of carrying on such business or
conducting such exhibits thereof, either hire, rent, lease or occupy any room
or space in any building, structure, other enclosure, vacant lot or any other
property whatsoever in the town in, through or from which any goods or
merchandise may be sold, offered for sale, exhibited for sale or exhibited for
the purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof.
   TEMPORARY. As used in the definition of “itinerant vendor” in this section,
any such business transacted or conducted in the town for which definite
arrangements have not been made for the hire, rental or lease of premises in or
upon which such business is to be operated or conducted for at least 100 days.
   TRANSIENT. As used in the definition of “itinerant vendor” in this section,
any such business of any such itinerant vendor as may be operated or conducted
by persons, firms or corporations, or by their agents or employees, who reside
away from the town or who have fixed places of business in places other than
the town, or who move stocks of goods or merchandise or samples thereof into
the town with the purpose or intention of removing them, or the unsold portion
thereof, away from the town before the expiration of 100 days.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any itinerant vendor to sell, offer for sale,
exhibit for sale or exhibit for the purpose of taking orders for the sale
thereof any goods or merchandise in the town without first obtaining a license
as herein provided.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to any itinerant vendor a license
authorizing such itinerant vendor to sell, exhibit for sale, offer for sale or
exhibit for the purpose of taking orders for the sale thereof his or her goods
or merchandise in the town only after such itinerant vendor shall have fully
complied with all provisions of this subchapter and shall have paid the license
fee provided in §
111.03 of this chapter, which sum shall be compensation to the town for the
services herein required of it and to enable the town to partially defray the
expenses of enforcing the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Application timeline. The itinerant vendor shall make application
to the Town Clerk- Treasurer at least ten days prior to the date of his or her
contemplated sale or exhibit to be held in the town.
      (2)   Affidavit; contents. The application shall be in the form of an
affidavit, and shall state the following:
         (a)   The full name and address of the itinerant vendor;
         (b)   The location of his, her or its principal office and place of
business; and
         (c)   The names and addresses of its officers, if it be a corporation,
and if such itinerant vendor be a firm, the partnership name and the names and
addresses of all partners.
      (3)   Accompanying documents; bond. The application thereof must be
accompanied by:
         (a)   A statement showing the kind and character of goods to be sold,
or of merchandise to be sold, offered for sale or exhibited;
         (b)   A certified copy of the charter, if the itinerant vendor be a
corporation incorporated under the laws of the state;
         (c)   A certified copy of its permit or authority to do business in
the state, if the itinerant vendor be a corporation incorporated under the laws
of some state other than Oklahoma; and
         (d)   A bond in such sum as determined by the Town Board, executed by
the itinerant vendor as principal, with some surety company authorized to do
business in the state as surety, which bond shall be payable to the town for
the use and benefit of any person entitled thereto and conditioned that the
principal and surety will pay all damages to persons caused by, arising from,
or growing out of the wrongful or illegal conduct of the itinerant vendor while
conducting the sale or exhibit in the town. The bond shall remain in full force
and effect for the entire duration of the license permit as provided herein,
and for two years thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
   (B)   Fees. The fee for an itinerant merchant’s or itinerant vendor’s
license shall be as set by the Town Board. When any person engages in any
activity coming under this subchapter through one or more agents or employees,
he or she shall, in addition to such fee, pay a license fee as set by the Town
Board for each agent or employee so engaged. The fees provided for herein shall
be deposited to the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
(Ord. 09-01, passed 6-9-2009)
§ 111.04 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   The license provided for in this subchapter shall not be transferable nor
give authority to more than one person to conduct a business as an itinerant
vendor, but any person having obtained such license may have the assistance of
one or more persons in conducting the business.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 111.05 RESTRICTIONS FOR BUSINESS WITH PRIVATE RESIDENTS.
   (A)   Consent or invitation required. In the exercise of the authority
conferred upon the town by state law, the practice of going to, in or upon the
premises of any private residence in the town by door-to- door salespersons,
solicitors, peddlers and order takers without the express consent, request or
invitation of the owner or occupant of such private residence for the purpose
of soliciting orders for the purchase of or for the sale of goods, wares,
publications or merchandise of any description, or for the purpose of peddling
or hawking the same, or for the purpose of soliciting subscriptions thereto, is
hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to salespersons, solicitors,
peddlers or order takers representing sales of local nonprofit or charitable
organizations, nor to the sale or soliciting of any order for the sale of milk,
dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs or other farm and garden produce so
far as the sale of the commodities named in this section is authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 EXEMPTION FOR INTERSTATE COMMERCE.
   Anyone engaged in interstate commerce or anyone upon which the provisions of
this subchapter would impose a direct and unlawful burden on interstate
commerce may appeal to the Judge of the Municipal Court for a determination of
the applicability of these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of §
111.05 of this chapter shall be punishable as a misdemeanor against the town.
Any person convicted of violating any provisions of §
111.05 of this chapter shall be fined as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6)
CHAPTER 112: FOOD SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Sanitation ordinance adoption
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 SANITATION ORDINANCE ADOPTION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      HEALTH AUTHORITY. The Director of the County Health Department of the
county or his or her designated representative.
   (B)   Sanitation ordinance adopted. The unabridged form of the latest
edition of the United States Public Health Service Food Service Sanitation
Ordinance and Code is hereby adopted and incorporated in this code by
reference. One copy of the Sanitation Ordinance and Code shall be on file in
the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Sanitation Ordinance and Code shall
govern the definitions, the inspections of food service establishments, the
issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to operate food service
establishments, the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated or misbranded food
or drink and the enforcement of this section. In the Sanitation Ordinance and
Code, however, all parenthetical phrases referring to grading and the following
subsections shall be understood to be deleted: subsections H2e, H7 and H8.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
112.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code. In addition thereto, any person convicted of a violation
may be enjoined from continuing the violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOL
Section
Alcoholic Beverages
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   State licensing requirements
   
113.04   License fees
   
113.05   Certificate of compliance application, fee and investigation
   
113.06   Certificate or conditional certificate issuance
   
113.07   Sale location restrictions
   
113.08   Sales in retail package stores, regulations
   
113.09   Prohibited acts and restrictions
Low-Point Beer
   
113.20   Definitions
   
113.21   License required; issuance
   
113.22   License fees; terms of fees
   
113.23   License nontransferable
   
113.24   Prohibited acts and restrictions
   
113.25   Revocation and hearing
 
   
113.99   Penalty
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the town to
preserve the public peace, safety, health and good order thereof, and to aid
the enforcement of the policy of the state as established by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37A O.S. § 1-101, and to establish annual
occupation taxes upon all persons engaged in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-1)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. For the purpose of this subchapter, all of the terms and
phrases used in this subchapter shall be given the same use and meaning as
defined by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
   (B)   Specific terms. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      MINOR. A person who, in accordance with state law, has not yet attained
the age at which consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted.
      STATE LICENSEE. Any person who holds a license issued under the authority
of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-2)
§ 113.03 STATE LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   State license, fee payment required.
      (1)   Any state licensee originally entering upon any occupation listed
in this subchapter shall pay the fee therefor at the office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer on or before the date upon which he or she enters upon such
occupation. The licensee shall provide a copy of his or her current state
license before payment of a license fee will be accepted.
      (2)   All license fees shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   (B)   Issuance and posting; town records.
      (1)   Upon payment of the license fee as set out, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue a receipt to the licensee, which the licensee shall post in a
conspicuous place on the premises wherein he or she carries on his or her
occupation.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also record the name of such licensee and
the address where he or she engages in his or her occupation, and such record
shall be duly filed and kept in the permanent files of that office for at least
three years. Thereafter, upon approval of the Town Board, the record may be
destroyed.
   (C)   Annual report to State Commission. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make and
transmit to the State Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission an
annual report covering the fiscal year showing the number and class of
businesses upon which license fees were levied and the amount of money
collected from such fees.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-4)
§ 113.04 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees generally.
      (1)   Fees imposed. There is hereby imposed an annual fee not to exceed
the amounts indicated below upon the occupations named.
Occupation Annual Fee
Occupation              Annual Fee
Brewer                  $1,250
Carter                  $1,000 initial
                        $900 renewal
Class B wholesaler      $625
Distiller               $3,125
Mixed beverage sales    $1,000 initial
                        $900 renewal
Oklahoma winemaker      $75
Package store           $300
Rectifier               $3,125
Special events, per day $50
Wholesaler              $2,500
Winemaker               $625
 
      (2)   Reduction or proration. The license fees prescribed in division (A)
(1) above shall be reduced or prorated to the extent necessary to conform to
applicable laws respecting the applicants or holders of state licenses.
      (3)   Service organizations. The license fee for those service
organizations which are exempt under I.R.C. § 501(c)(19), (8) or (10) regarding
mixed beverage or bottle club licenses shall be as set by the Town Board per
year.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-3)
   (B)   Fee upon each location. Any state licensee carrying on his or her
occupation in more than one location within the town limits shall be subject to
the fee set out for each such location.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-4)
§ 113.05 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE APPLICATION, FEE AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Application; fee. Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with
the fire, health and safety codes of the town required by 37A O.S. § 2-142(2)
shall apply at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer by:
      (1)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
      (2)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount as set by
the Board of Trustees at the time of filing.
   (B)   Investigation. Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of
compliance, the town shall cause an investigation to be made to determine
whether the premises proposed for licensed operations complies with the
provisions of any health, fire, building or other safety codes applicable to
it.
   (C)   Time limit for town action. The town shall act on all such
applications within 20 days of receipt thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-6)
§ 113.06 CERTIFICATE OR CONDITIONAL CERTIFICATE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Certificate of compliance.
      (1)   Issuance. Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a
certificate is in compliance with all applicable fire, safety and health codes,
a certificate of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
      (2)   Signing. A certificate of compliance shall be signed by the Mayor.
   (B)   Conditional certificate of compliance.
      (1)   Issuance. A conditional certificate may be granted if construction,
modification or alteration of the premises proposed for licensed operations is
not completed. The conditional certificate shall indicate that the proposed
premises will comply with town fire, safety and health codes.
      (2)   Certification after final inspections. A certificate in accordance
with division (A) above shall be issued within ten days after all final
inspections are complete.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-7)
§ 113.07 SALE LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any mixed beverage establishment, beer and
wine establishment or bottle club which has been licensed and which has as its
main purpose the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on
the premises, or any retail package store, to be located within 300 feet of any
public or private school or church property primarily and regularly used for
worship services and religious activities. The distance indicated in this
division (A) shall be measured from the nearest property line of such public or
private school or church to the nearest perimeter wall of the premises of any
such mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment, bottle club or
retail package store which has been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to mixed beverage
establishments, beer and wine establishments or bottle clubs which have been
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption, or to retail
package stores, prior to November 1, 2000. However, if the licensed location
has not been in actual operation for a continuous period of more than 60 days
at the time of application for license renewal, then the license shall not be
renewed.
   (C)   If any school or church shall be established within 300 feet of any
retail package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment
or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section after such retail
package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or
bottle club has been licensed, then the provisions of this section shall not be
a deterrent to the renewal of such license if there has not been a lapse of
more than 60 days.
   (D)   When any mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or
bottle club subject to the provisions of this section which has a license to
sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption or any retail package
store changes ownership, or the operator thereof is changed and such change of
ownership results in the same type of business being conducted on the premises,
the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the issuance of a
license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise qualified.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-9) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 SALES IN RETAIL PACKAGE STORES, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Conditions of sale.
      (1)   No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages out of any
retail package store other than:
         (a)   In retail containers;
         (b)   At ordinary room temperature;
         (c)   In the original package; and
         (d)   For consumption off of the premises.
      (2)   No person owning, employed in or in any manner assisting in the
maintenance and operation of such a store shall suffer or permit any alcoholic
beverage to be consumed, or any retail container of such beverage to be opened,
on the premises of such a store.
   (B)   Compliance required. No person shall sell, at retail or otherwise, and
no person shall deliver in consequence of or in completion of such a sale any
alcoholic beverages at any place in the town except at a retail package store
in strict conformity with this subchapter and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-8) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 PROHIBITED ACTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Consumption prohibited in certain places. No person shall drink or
consume in any manner any alcoholic beverage on the premises of a retail
package store, or in any other public place, nor shall a person open or break
the seal of any original package or retail container containing an alcoholic
beverage on the premises of any such retail package store.
   (B)   Prohibited sales.
      (1)   Minors. No person shall knowingly sell, deliver or furnish
alcoholic beverages to any person who is a minor at any place within the town
limits, nor shall any minor misrepresent his or her age verbally or in writing,
present false documentation of age or otherwise for the purpose of inducing any
other person to sell him or her alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   Intoxicated or mentally deficient persons. No person shall sell,
deliver or knowingly furnish alcoholic beverages within the town to an
intoxicated person nor to any person who has been adjudged mentally deficient.
   (C)   Transportation of alcoholic beverages. It is unlawful to transport any
alcoholic beverage unless the same is:
      (1)   In an unopened, original container with the seal unbroken and the
original cap or cork not removed from the container; or
      (2)   In the trunk or other closed compartment or container out of public
view and out of reach of and not accessible to the driver or any occupant of
the vehicle.
   (D)   Prohibited employment; loitering by minor.
      (1)   No minor shall be employed in the selling, manufacture,
distribution or other handling of alcoholic beverages at any place within the
town. No person shall employ nor assist or aid in causing the employment of any
minor at any place within the town in the selling, manufacture, distribution or
other handling of alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   No minor shall be permitted to remain within or loiter about the
premises of a retail package store.
   (E)   Dates, hours when sale prohibited. No person shall open for business
or keep open for business, nor sell or deliver alcoholic beverages as described
herein, to any person at a retail package store in the town:
      (1)   On any Sunday, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor
Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day, or while the polls are
open on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary or special election,
whether national, state, county or town; or
      (2)   On any other day except between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m.
   (F)   Drinking and intoxication in public places.
      (1)   No person within the town shall drink intoxicating liquor in any
public place, nor shall any person be intoxicated in a public place within the
town.
      (2)   No person operating a café, restaurant, club or any place of
recreation within the town nor employee engaged in connection with the
operation of such café, restaurant, club or place of recreation shall permit
any person to be drunk or intoxicated in the place of business.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
LOW-POINT BEER
§ 113.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   LOW-POINT BEER. All beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume
and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer
or cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion
of barley or other grain, malt or similar product.
   MINOR. A person who has not yet attained the age at which a person is
permitted to consume low-point beer under state law.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any person, firm, corporation, association or concessionaire
who sells, distributes or dispenses at retail any low-point beer within the
corporate limits of the town, without regard as to any place where such low-
point beer may be consumed or used.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-1)
§ 113.21 LICENSE REQUIRED; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any retail dealer, whether permanent or temporary,
to sell, distribute or dispense any low-point beer without having first
received a municipal license as herein required.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-2)
   (B)   No municipal license shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer to any
retail dealer without a satisfactory showing that the applicant has obtained
all state and county permits required by law and has in all other respects
complied with the state and local alcoholic beverage control requirements.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-4)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.22 LICENSE FEES; TERMS OF FEES.
   (A)   Fees. There is hereby levied upon each retail dealer in low-point beer
for consumption on or off the premises an annual license fee of $20, and an
annual license fee of $10 for the sale of low-point beer which is in the
original package and not for consumption on the premises.
   (B)   Payment. All such municipal license fees shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time of issuance of the license and in the manner prescribed
herein.
   (C)   Term. All license fees levied under the provisions of this subchapter
shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   (D)   Proration. The amount of any license fee levied shall be computed pro
rata from the months remaining in the year ending June 30. Such fees paid on or
before the fifteenth day of any month shall be on the basis of the first day of
the month and such fees paid after the fifteenth day of the month shall be on
the basis of the first day of the next-succeeding month.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-3)
§ 113.23 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license shall be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-4) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.24 PROHIBITED ACTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Employment of underage persons. It is unlawful for any owner, manager
or operator of a place where low-point beer is sold for consumption on the
premises, except for an eating place where the service of such beer is
incidental to the main business of serving food, to employ a minor person under
18 years of age to work in such place.
   (B)   Minors restricted.
      (1)   Sales to and purchases by. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to sell, offer for sale, give away, procure for or otherwise
dispense to any minor any low-point beer, or for any minor to purchase, receive
or procure any low-point beer.
      (2)   Possession in public places. It is unlawful and an offense for any
minor to be in possession of any low-point beer while such person is on any
public street, road or highway, or in any public building or place.
      (3)   Drinking in public. It is unlawful for a minor to drink any low-
point beer while such person is upon any public street, alley or other public
highway, or in any public building or other public place within the town. This
division (B)(3) shall not prohibit a person who is of age from drinking such
beer in a place licensed to sell low-point beer for consumption on the
premises.
   (C)   Intoxicated persons. It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator
of a place where low- point beer is sold for consumption on the premises to
sell or otherwise furnish such beer to an intoxicated person or to permit an
intoxicated person to remain or loiter therein.
   (D)   Gambling; disorderly conduct.
      (1)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of a place where
low-point beer is sold for consumption on the premises to permit therein:
         (a)   Gambling, betting or the operation of a lottery;
         (b)   The sale, furnishing or drinking of intoxicating liquor;
         (c)   Disorderly conduct;
         (d)   Loud or disturbing language, noise or music;
         (e)   Profane language; or
         (f)   Any other violation of the laws of the state or the ordinances
of the town.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any such activity or
conduct in division (D)(1) above in such a place.
   (E)   Fighting, wrestling and the like.
      (1)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of a place where
low-point beer is sold for consumption on the premises to permit therein
fighting, boxing, wrestling or other contests of physical strength.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to fight, box, wrestle or engage in
other contests of physical strength in such a place.
   (F)   Hours of sale. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
sell low-point beer for consumption on the premises between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-5) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.25 REVOCATION AND HEARING.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall have the power, after public hearing, to
revoke any license granted hereunder for a violation of law or ordinance by the
license holder.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-6)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any and each violation of any of the provisions of §§
113.01 through
113.09 of this chapter is an offense against the town, and upon conviction of
such an offense, the violator shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-11)
      (2)   (a)   Failure to pay. Any person who engages in any of the
occupations licensed by §§
113.01 through
113.09 of this chapter without first paying the license fee imposed therefor in
advance of such operation is guilty of an offense against the town, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code. A penalty in the form of increased fee may be levied
upon any person not paying the fee within 15 days after payment of the fee is
due.
         (b)   Civil penalty. All sums due from any person, firm or corporation
by reason of license fees imposed by §§
113.01 through
113.09 of this chapter shall be recoverable at the suit of the town brought
against such person in any court of competent jurisdiction. In such suit, in
addition to the license fee, the town shall be allowed to recover interest at
the maximum allowable rate permitted by state law upon all sums due by way of
license fees from the date of accrual thereof, any penalty and all costs of
collection, judicial or otherwise, including reasonable attorney fees.
Prosecution for an offense against the town arising out of the failure to pay a
fee imposed by §§
113.01 through
113.09 of this chapter, regardless of the outcome or its continued pendency,
shall not constitute a defense or a bar in any manner to the collection of any
fees and penalties, if any are due, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-5)
      (3)   Violation of §
113.09(D) of this chapter shall subject the owner or proprietor, as well as the
underage person, to prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 4-2A-10)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
113.20 through
113.25 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-2B-7)
CHAPTER 114: PLUMBING WORK
Section
   
114.01   Title
   
114.02   Scope
   
114.03   Liability for damages
   
114.04   Administration by Plumbing Inspector; duties
   
114.05   Installation by residential property owner
   
114.06   Plumber licence and registration requirements
   
114.07   Fees
§ 114.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, together with the provisions of §
150.01(B)(4) of this code, shall be known as the “Plumbing Code of the Town of
Quapaw, Oklahoma.” Any variances between this chapter and the International
Code adopted in §
150.01(B)(4) of this code shall be controlled by the provisions set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 114.02 SCOPE.
   Any building or dwelling attached to the town water or sanitary sewer
systems shall be governed by the provisions of this chapter and §
150.01(B)(4) of this code, and shall conform thereto whether located within or
without the town limits.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 114.03 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the town any liability
or responsibility for damage to any person injured or who suffers loss of the
installation thereof, nor shall the town or any official or employee thereof be
held as assuming any such liability or responsibility by reason of the
inspection authorized hereunder or certificate of inspection issued by the
Plumbing Inspector, nor shall the town or any official or employee thereof be
held as assuming any liability or responsibility for property damage, from any
cause whatsoever, which may have been caused by any leakage, fire or explosion
of any sort coming from or during the operation of any gas appliance or house
gas piping, water piping or sanitary system.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 114.04 ADMINISTRATION BY PLUMBING INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   Plumbing Inspector. The office the Plumbing Inspector for the town
shall mean the Planning Commission set forth in §
33.065 of this code. The Planning Commission is the same as the Plumbing
Inspector when used in this chapter.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Plumbing Inspector, acting through
its deputies or on its own volition, to make the inspections required by this
chapter and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 114.05 INSTALLATION BY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY OWNER.
   All plumbing installed by the owner and current full-time resident of the
property involved shall comply with the requirements of this chapter, and in
such event, the word OWNER shall be substituted for the word PLUMBER throughout
this chapter. It is the intent of this section to allow an owner to work on his
or her personal residence only and not on rental or investment properties.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06 PLUMBER LICENCE AND REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   License required. Any plumber, plumber’s helper, apprentice or other
person performing work for the plumber shall be licensed as required by the
state.
   (B)   Registration required.
      (1)   No person, as a plumbing contractor, journeyperson plumber or
apprentice, shall make any connections to the town water system or plumbing in
the town without first registering with the town.
      (2)   Each person so registering shall present his or her state license
to the Plumbing Inspector. The registration fee for any plumbing contractor
shall be $10, which permit is current for one year from the date of its
issuance. The registration fee for journeypeople and assistants shall be $5 for
the one-year permit.
   (C)   Registration certificate issuance. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue a certificate of registration to each person registering as required by
this chapter upon compliance by such person with all applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   Display of certificate. It shall be the duty of every person doing
work as a plumber in the town or making any connection to the town water or
sanitary sewer system to show the certificate of registration on demand to any
Plumbing Inspector or police officer who shall ask to see the same.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.07 FEES.
   (A)   Before any permit approved by the Inspector shall be valid, a basic
fee of $10 for residential and $20 for commercial and industrial must be paid
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, together with the additional fees below.
Type Fee
Type                                     Fee
Bath and/or shower                       $1
Clothes washer                           $1
Dishwasher                               $1
Drinking fountain                        $1
Floor drain                              $1
Gas line mercury test                    $5
Gas line outlets, each                   $1
Inspection fees, commercial              $20
Inspection fees, industrial              $20
Inspection fees, residential             $10
Jacuzzi and/or hot tub                   $5
Lavatories and/or sinks                  $1
Repair, replace or add to existing sewer $5
Replace existing water heater            $1
Sewer tap and/or cap                     $5
Toilets and/or urinals                   $1
Water heater, new construction           $1
Water service and/or backflow preventer  $5
 
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a fixture is defined as a water
closet, sink, bathtub, basin, urinal, wash tray, water heater, floor drain,
commercial refrigeration, dishwasher, automatic washer, extractor and every
other thing commonly known as a fixture among plumbers, and each wash stand or
basin, or section, shall be classed as a fixture.
   (C)   The Planning Commission of the town may amend or waive any of the fees
required herein if the Planning Commission is acting under the provisions of §
151.04 of this code.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 5-10-2011)
CHAPTER 115: DANGEROUS AND RESTRICTED MATERIALS
Section
   
115.01   Fireworks regulations
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
   Fireworks may be sold in the town from June 25 through July 4 of any
calendar year, provided that no fireworks stand will be closer to any structure
than 75 feet and a permit is first obtained from the Town Clerk-Treasurer in
such sum as set by the Town Board, together with evidence of insurance and a
tax identification number for the collection of town and state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) (Ord. 03-03, passed 6-16-2003) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any sales of fireworks in violation of §
115.01 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $100 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
(Ord. 03-03, passed 6-16-2003)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Attempting to commit an offense
   
130.02   Aiding in an offense
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ATTEMPTING TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town and does any act toward the commission of such offense in such attempt,
but who fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is
guilty of an offense and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the
attempted offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense or
misdemeanor and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable as provided in
§
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
Section
Curfew for Minors
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Hours of restriction; exceptions
   
131.03   Special events
   
131.04   Parental responsibility; exceptions
   
131.05   Business owner or operator responsibility
   
131.06   Custody of minors in violation
Youth Access to Tobacco
   
131.20   Definitions
   
131.21   Enforcement
   
131.22   Selling or furnishing unlawful
   
131.23   Purchasing, accepting or possessing unlawful
   
131.24   Tobacco sample distribution unlawful
   
131.25   Sale of cigarettes in original package required
 
   
131.99   Penalty
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person 21 years of age or older who is in loco parentis to a
minor.
   GUARDIAN. Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
   PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE.
      (1)   Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or place to
which the general public has access and a right to resort for business,
entertainment or other lawful purpose.
      (2)   A PUBLIC PLACE shall include, but not be limited to, any store,
shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, café, theater, drugstore, pool room or
shopping center and any other place devoted to the amusement or entertainment
of the general public. It shall also include the front or immediate area of the
above.
(Prior Code, § 6-6A-1)
§ 131.02 HOURS OF RESTRICTION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions. It is unlawful for any minor to remain, wander, stroll
or play in any public place on foot or to cruise about without a set
destination in any vehicle in, about or upon any public place in the town,
unless exempted under division (B) below:
      (1)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. Sunday night through
Thursday night; and
      (2)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday nights to 5:00 a.m. on
Saturday and Sunday mornings, respectively.
   (B)   Exemptions. It is an exemption to a violation under this section that
the person engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or have been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-6A-2) (Ord. 98-01, passed 1-12-1998) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   The Board of Trustees may permit, by resolution or motion, procedures for
advance notice or registration with the town of special events or functions
sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or other organizations which require
minors to be out at a later time.
(Prior Code, § 6-6A-5)
§ 131.04 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Responsibility. It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, custodian or
other adult person having custody or control of any minor to suffer or permit
or, by inefficient control, to allow such person to be on any public place
within the town between the hours of curfew designated in §
131.02 of this chapter.
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply if:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having care, custody or control of the minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed by his or her parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
having care and custody of the minor; or
      (3)   The parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a
missing person notification to the Town Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-6A-4) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 BUSINESS OWNER OR OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or having
charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors
between the hours of curfew designated in §
131.02 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-6A-3) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 CUSTODY OF MINORS IN VIOLATION.
   The Board of Trustees may also prescribe the procedures for taking into
custody minors found in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-6A-5)
YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
§ 131.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust or
association, however formed.
   PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, license for identification only or other
generally-accepted means of identification which describes the individual as 21
years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness of the
individual and which appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE. The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product which contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-1) (Ord. 97-01, passed 1-13-1997)
§ 131.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Town authority. The town is authorized and empowered to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter. The town shall enforce these provisions in a
manner which can reasonably be expected to reduce the extent to which tobacco
products are sold or distributed to persons under 21 years of age.
   (B)   Minors assisting in enforcement.
      (1)   Persons under 21 years of age may be enlisted by the town to assist
in enforcement, provided, however, that such persons may be used to test
compliance only if written parental consent has been provided and the testing
is conducted under the direct supervision of the town or conducted by another
law enforcement agency if such agency has given written notice to the town in
the manner prescribed by the town.
      (2)   However, this division (B) shall not apply to the use of persons
under 21 years of age to test compliance if the compliance test is being
conducted by or on behalf of a retailer of cigarettes, as defined in 68 O.S. §
301, at any location the retailer of cigarettes is authorized to sell
cigarettes.
      (3)   Any other use of persons under 21 years of age to test compliance
shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-6) (Ord. 97-01, passed 1-13-1997) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.22 SELLING OR FURNISHING UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to sell or furnish in any manner any
tobacco product to another person who is under 21 years of age or to purchase,
in any manner, a tobacco product on behalf of any such person.
      (2)   However, it shall not be unlawful for an employee under 21 years of
age to handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the
employee’s duties.
   (B)   Demanding proof of age. A person engaged in the sale or distribution
of tobacco products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-2) (Ord. 97-01, passed 1-13-1997) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.23 PURCHASING, ACCEPTING OR POSSESSING UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person who is under 21 years of age to purchase,
accept receipt of or have in his or her possession a tobacco product, or to
present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false,
fraudulent or not actually his or her own for the purpose of purchasing or
receiving any tobacco product.
   (B)   However, it shall not be unlawful for such a person to handle tobacco
products when required to in the performance of such person’s duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-3) (Ord. 97-01, passed 1-13-1997) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.24 TOBACCO SAMPLE DISTRIBUTION UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute tobacco
product samples to any person under 21 years of age.
   (B)   Distributing near a school or playground. Notwithstanding division (A)
above, no person shall distribute tobacco product samples in or on any public
street, sidewalk or park which is within 300 feet of any playground, school or
other facility when the facility is being used primarily by persons under 21
years of age.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-4) (Ord. 97-01, passed 1-13-1997) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.25 SALE OF CIGARETTES IN ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the original,
sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-5) (Ord. 97-01, passed 1-13-1997) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Aside from as specified in §
131.21(B) of this chapter, any other use of persons under 21 years of age to
test compliance shall be unlawful and punishable by the town by a fine of $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-6)
      (2)   (a)   Fine for sale or furnishing. When a person violates §
131.22 of this chapter, the town may assess such person a fine of $25 for the
first offense within a one-year period, $50 for the second offense within a
one-year period and $75 for a third offense or subsequent offense within a one-
year period. Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
division (B)(2).
         (b)   Violation by an employee. If the sale is made by an employee of
the owner of a store at which tobacco products are sold at retail, then the
employee shall be guilty of the violation and shall be subject to the fine.
         (c)   Each business location a separate entity. For the purpose of
determining the liability of a person controlling franchises or business
operations in multiple locations for any violation of §
131.22 of this chapter, each individual franchise or business location shall be
deemed a separate entity.
         (d)   License suspension upon failure to pay. Upon failure of the
person or employee to pay the fine within 90 days of the day of the assessment
of such fine, the town shall notify the State Department of Public Safety, and
said Department shall suspend or not issue a driver’s license to said person
until proof of payment has been furnished to the Department of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-2)
      (3)   (a)   Fine for purchase, acceptance or possession. When a person
violates §
131.23 of this chapter, the town may assess such person a fine of $25 for a
first offense within a one-year period, a fee of $50 for a second offense
within a one-year period and $75 for a third or subsequent offense within a
one-year period.
         (b)   License suspension upon failure to pay. Upon failure of the
individual to pay such fine within 90 days of such fine, the town shall notify
the State Department of Public Safety, and said Department shall suspend or not
issue a driver’s license to said individual until proof of payment has been
furnished to the Department of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-3)
      (4)   (a)   Fine for distribution. When a person violates §
131.24 of this chapter, the town may assess such person a fine of $25 for the
first offense within a one-year period, $50 for the second offense within a
one-year period and $75 for a third offense within a one-year period.
         (b)   License suspension upon failure to pay. Upon failure of an
individual to pay the fine within 90 days of the assessment of such fine, the
town shall notify the State Department of Public Safety, and said Department
shall suspend or not issue a driver’s license to said individual until proof of
payment has been furnished to the Department of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-4)
      (5)   When a person violates §
131.25 of this chapter, the town may assess such person a fine of $200 for each
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-6B-5)
(Ord. 97-01, passed 1-13-1997)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Petit larceny
   
132.02   Injuring vehicles
   
132.03   Injuring plants, streets and public property
   
132.04   Destruction of buildings and other property
   
132.05   Throwing or shooting objects and substances
   
132.06   Tampering with or damaging public utilities
   
132.07   Interfering with fire hydrants
   
132.08   Placing or leaving advertisements
   
132.09   Parking or placing objects on the property of another
   
132.10   Trespassing or illegal entrance
   
132.11   Intruding or squatting upon land
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 PETIT LARCENY.
   PETIT LARCENY is the taking of personal property of a value not exceeding
$500 which is accomplished by fraud or stealth and with the intent to deprive
another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property from the
“person” of another. Petit larceny is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-1) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 INJURING VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to start or otherwise meddle with, enter,
occupy, loiter in or injure any automobile or other vehicle belonging to
another without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-2) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 INJURING PLANTS, STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Plants and park property. It is unlawful for any person to willfully
and without authority cut, pull, pluck or otherwise injure any flowers,
flowering plants, shrubs or trees growing in or around any park or public
street within the town, or to willfully or without authority tear down, remove,
cut or otherwise injure or destroy any gate or fence enclosing any such park or
grounds, or to willfully injure or destroy any stand, bench, seat or other
property situated upon such park or grounds.
   (B)   Public streets and trees.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Willfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree
or sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the town;
         (b)   Attach any guy wire, any telephone, telegraph or electric wire
or any wire to any live tree;
         (c)   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue
or alley, or any other public premises or grounds within, belonging to or under
the supervision or control of the town;
         (d)   Take or remove any dirt or earth or any substance from any
street, road, alley or other public place in the town, or to cut, break or
otherwise injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
         (e)   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the Town Inspector to do so.
      (2)   Any such digging, removing or driveway connection shall be done
under the supervision of the Street Superintendent or Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-7) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 DESTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure or deface any structure,
building, outbuilding, fence or any other property, real or personal, public or
private, belonging to another, or to use any such property wrongfully to the
detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use, or to interfere
wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or any other person
entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-3) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Stones or other objects. It is unlawful for any person to throw or
shoot any stone, shot or other object into or across any street or alley, or in
any place where he or she is likely to hit another person wrongfully or to
injure property, or to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object at any
person, vehicle, structure, electric light or other property of another,
whether public or private, except in cases where such is done in defense of
oneself, of another person or of property.
   (B)   Injurious substances. It is unlawful for any person to purposely or
premeditatedly put or throw upon the person or property of another, or upon any
animal, any acid, corrosive or other irritating or harmful substance, or any
human or animal waste or urine, with the intent to injure or harass the person,
property or animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-5) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Unlawful connection. It is unlawful for any person to connect or
attach any kind of pipe, wire or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or
other conductor carrying gas, water or electricity and belonging to a public
utility, whether publicly or privately owned, in such a manner so as to enable
him or her to consume or use the gas, water or electricity without it passing
through the meter, or in any other way so as to evade payment therefor.
   (B)   Injury or destruction. It is also unlawful for any person to damage,
tamper with or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter or other part of any public
utility, including any telegraph or telephone system.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-6) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 INTERFERING WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Opening or interfering with a hydrant. It is unlawful for any person
except one duly authorized by town utility personnel or a member of the Fire
Department to open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to
or connect anything with any fire hydrant or stop cock belonging to the town.
   (B)   Obstructing access to a hydrant. It is unlawful for any person to
obstruct access to any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber,
dirt or some other thing, or in any other manner to obstruct access to a fire
hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-11) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08 PLACING OR LEAVING ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   Placing signs on the property of another. It is unlawful for any
person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark, write or print any
sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill, placard, device or
inscription upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge,
viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of another without
the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
   (B)   Leaving advertising materials on streets. It is unlawful for any
person to throw, leave or deposit, or to cause to be thrown, left or deposited,
upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public area any handbill, circular or
other advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-4) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.09 PARKING OR PLACING OBJECTS ON THE PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object, on the driveway, yard or property of another
without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by the
authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-10) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.10 TRESPASSING OR ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property which is dedicated to public use and over which
the federal, state or municipal government, or any subdivision thereof,
exercises control.
      TRESPASS.
         (a)   Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or
other person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or
implied consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession.
         (b)   TRESPASS shall also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner
or other person in lawful possession after having been told to leave the
premises by the owner or by the agent or employee of the owner or other person
in lawful possession of the premises.
         (c)   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of remaining on
private property at any time other than during the posted hours of business
operations after having been directed to vacate such premises by a police
officer. The provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons,
including employees, whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the
owner or by a person in lawful possession of such premises, nor shall the
provisions of this definition apply unless the hours of business operations are
posted upon such premises.
         (d)   TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of returning to
private property before the posted time of opening for business operations on
the next business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under
the terms of this section.
   (B)   Trespass on private property. It is unlawful for any person to
trespass on private property.
   (C)   Illegal entrance.
      (1)   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another
or into an area or structure on such property, whether such property, area or
structure is public or private, when such entrance is plainly forbidden by
signs or any notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except
when such entrance is in the line of duty or with the express or tacit consent
of the owner or person in charge, or otherwise by the authority of law or
ordinance.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another
after having been given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or
person in charge.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-9) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.11 INTRUDING OR SQUATTING UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the town without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley or avenue of the town any hut, shanty, hovel or other
structure without the authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-8) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable as
provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4)
   (B)   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits petit larceny as
defined in §
132.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-1)
   (C)   Any person violating §
132.03(A) of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-5A-7)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
133.01   Resisting an officer
   
133.02   Resisting a public official
   
133.03   Assault or battery upon an officer
   
133.04   Refusing or failing to assist an officer
   
133.05   Impersonating an officer or employee
   
133.06   False representation to an officer
   
133.07   Turning in a false alarm
   
133.08   Removing barricades
   
133.09   Setting prisoners at liberty
   
133.10   Escaping or attempting escape
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      OBSTRUCTION OF. In addition to their common meaning, these words shall
include:
         (a)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him or her and after notice is given that he or she is under
arrest;
         (b)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he or she is under arrest; or
         (c)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his or her name and make
his or her identity known to the arresting officer.
      RESISTING AN OFFICER. The intentional opposition or resistance to or
obstruction of an individual acting in his or her official capacity, authorized
by law, to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property or serve any lawful
process or court order when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property or serving process is acting in his or her
official capacity.
   (B)   Resisting, assaulting or interfering with an officer. It is unlawful
to resist, oppose, assault or in any way interfere with a police officer, or
any person duly authorized to act as such, while the officer or person is
discharging or attempting to discharge his or her official duties within the
limits of the town.
   (C)   Warning or aiding another to flee. It is unlawful for any person to
warn or signal another so as to assist such other person to flee, escape or
evade an officer seeking to make an arrest, or for any person to bar or lock
any door or barrier in the face of or in front of an approaching officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-5D-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 RESISTING A PUBLIC OFFICIAL.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Police Chief, any other police officer,
the Municipal Judge or any other officer or employee of the town in the
discharge of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his or her official duties; or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to or use abusive
or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-5D-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-5D-3) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   (A)   Authority to seek assistance. An officer of the town who is making or
about to make an arrest or executing or about to execute a warrant or other
process in accordance with the ordinances of the town or with state or federal
law, or who is suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray or unlawful
assembly, may call upon persons to assist him or her in making such arrest,
executing such process or suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   Refusal unlawful. It is unlawful for any person thus lawfully called
upon to assist an officer of the town to refuse or fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6-5D-2) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of the
town, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers
of an officer or employee of the town without being duly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6-5D-5) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or for any agent or
employee thereof, to knowingly make any material misrepresentation to any
officer, employee or agency of the town government in any official application
to, or any official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency, or to
commit perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-5D-7) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 TURNING IN A FALSE ALARM.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department, Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm,
reported fire, accident or other emergency or to knowingly cause the Fire
Department, Police Department or their officers or employees to make a useless
run.
(Prior Code, § 6-5D-6) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 REMOVING BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by the authority of the town to keep traffic
off of any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(Prior Code, § 6-5D-8) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 SETTING PRISONERS AT LIBERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty,
rescue or attempt to set at liberty any prisoner from any officer or employee
of the town having legal custody of the same or from the town jail or other
place of confinement by the town, or to assist such prisoner in any manner to
escape from such prison or custody either before or after conviction, including
escape from a vehicle of confinement.
(Prior Code, § 6-5D-4) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.10 ESCAPING OR ATTEMPTING ESCAPE.
   It is unlawful for any person confined in the town jail or other place of
confinement by the town, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the town in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
the authority of the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody.
(Prior Code, § 6-5D-4) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable as provided in
§
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Sleeping or loitering in public places
   
134.02   Begging
   
134.03   Harmful deception
   
134.04   Swindling
   
134.05   Vagrancy
   
134.06   Gambling
   
134.07   Public intoxication and drinking
   
134.08   Alcohol prohibitions
   
134.09   Possessing or transporting alcohol
   
134.10   Marijuana prohibitions; exception
   
134.11   Disorderly houses
   
134.12   Nudity; indecent exposure
   
134.13   Obscenity
   
134.14   Prostitution
   
134.15   Assault and battery
   
134.16   Disturbing the peace
   
134.17   Insulting signs, literature or language
   
134.18   Loud noises
   
134.19   Shooting fireworks
   
134.20   Storing or keeping explosives
   
134.21   Weapons and firearms
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 SLEEPING OR LOITERING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. An area generally visible to public view, including
streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots,
automobiles (whether moving or not) and buildings open to the general public,
including those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the
doorways and entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing
them.
   (B)   (1)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
      (2)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstances makes it
impractical, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself or herself
and to explain his or her presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of
an offense under this section if the police officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
person was true and, if it had been believed by the police officer at the time,
would have dispelled the alarm.
      (3)   Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by
a police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public or quasi- public sidewalk,
street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private property
utilized for public use so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to block, obstruct or prevent
free access to the entrance to any building open to the public.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons in an attempt to stop or engage male or female
passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms or other bodily
gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such so as to demonstrate a specific
intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution.
      (2)   No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (D) unless
the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain his or
her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division (D) if it
appears at trial that the explanation given by him or her was true and
disclosed a lawful purpose.
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 BEGGING.
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except for an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose,
or one of whose purposes, is to aid persons in need.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-9) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or a
third party, or when such results in or contributes to the benefit of the
deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-11) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 SWINDLING.
   It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or business
under false pretenses, deception, cheating or by any other fraudulent act.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-12) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the town.
   (B)   Acts of vagrancy described. For the purpose of this section, a VAGRANT
means any person who loiters, remains in or wanders about a public or private
place for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      (2)   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution, soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      (3)   For the purpose of engaging in theft or breaking and entering into
any building, property or automobile of another;
      (4)   For the purpose of injuring, destroying or defacing any property of
another;
      (5)   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      (6)   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms, provided that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for a bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organization with the authorization of such
organization; or
      (7)   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-7) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.06 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Gambling prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or agent or
employee thereof to do any of the following:
         (a)   To play, to open or cause to be opened or to operate, carry on
or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette
or craps or any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards or
any device for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
         (b)   To set up, operate or permit to be operated any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, credit, chips or any other thing
of value is played when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
         (c)   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
         (d)   To knowingly permit his, her or its premises, house, lot or
other property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful
in this section.
      (2)   It is unlawful and an offense against the town for any person to
play any roulette wheel, slot machine or any other device or machine wherein
the element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks
or any other representative of value.
   (B)   Loitering about gambling area. It is unlawful for any person to be
about in the immediate vicinity where persons are gambling, whether by playing
games, operating a slot machine or other device or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-10) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.07 PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      STATE OF INTOXICATION. The condition in which a person is under the
influence of any alcoholic beverage or low-point beer, or of any narcotic or
drug, to such an extent so as to deprive the person of his or her full physical
or mental power, or in which a person is a danger to himself, herself or
others.
   (B)   Prohibited act. It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or
in any street, alley or other public place in the town in a state of
intoxication.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-2) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.08 ALCOHOL PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any alcoholic beverage or low-point beer of any kind except as
permitted by law;
   (B)   To have in possession or under control any alcoholic beverage or low-
point beer except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey
from place to place in the town any alcoholic beverage or low-point beer except
as permitted by law;
   (C)   To loiter in a place where alcoholic beverages or low-point beer is
sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
   (D)   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place where
alcoholic beverages or low-point beer is sold, bartered, given away or
otherwise furnished in violation of law.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-2) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.09 POSSESSING OR TRANSPORTING ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Shall be as defined in Ch. 113 of this code.
      LOW-POINT BEER. Shall be as defined in Ch. 113 of this code.
   (B)   Minor in possession. It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21
years to be in possession of any alcoholic beverage or low-point beer while
such person is upon any public street, road or highway or in any public place
within the town limits.
   (C)   Parents allowing a minor to possess. It is unlawful for any parent or
guardian of a person under the age of 21 years to permit such person to be in
possession of an intoxicating alcoholic beverage.
   (D)   Transporting alcohol. It is unlawful for any person to knowingly
transport in any moving vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any
alcoholic beverage or low-point beer except in the original container, which
shall not have been opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not
have been removed unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear
compartment. The rear trunk or rear compartment shall include the spare tire
compartment in a station wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which
is not accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is
in motion.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-2) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.10 MARIJUANA PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. Shall have the meaning prescribed by 63 O.S. § 2-101,
including the factors to determine in 63 O.S. § 2-101.1.
      MARIJUANA. Shall have the meaning prescribed by 63 O.S. § 2-101.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person to knowingly:
      (1)   Manufacture, grow, harvest, cultivate, propagate, plant, compound,
convert, produce, process, test, pack, repack, store, distribute, dispense or
possess with the intent to manufacture, distribute or dispense marijuana;
      (2)   Use, have, inject, ingest, inhale, otherwise introduce into the
human body or possess marijuana;
      (3)   Use or possess drug paraphernalia or deliver, possess or
manufacture any such paraphernalia singly or in conjunction with any other
person; or
      (4)   Appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place in the town while under the influence of a controlled
dangerous substance or marijuana.
   (C)   Exception. This section shall not apply to any marijuana lawfully
obtained or authorized by valid prescription order from a licensed physician
while acting in the course of his or her professional practice.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-2) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.11 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   (A)   Definition; prohibited acts. For the purpose of this section, the
following definition applies unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      DISORDERLY HOUSE. Any structure or vehicle by which the peace, comfort,
health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the people
therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
         (a)   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
         (b)   The violation of any of the ordinances of the town or statutes
of the state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages, including beer containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
         (c)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state
statute or town ordinance, including, but not limited to, soliciting for the
purpose of prostitution; or
         (d)   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
   (B)   Maintaining or leasing.
      (1)   No person shall keep, maintain, aid, abet or assist in the keeping
and maintaining of a disorderly house.
      (2)   (a)   No owner, lessee, lessor or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of the same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house.
         (b)   Knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure,
tent, vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a
disorderly house, no person, partnership or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
   (C)   Residents and visitors.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into or remain in a
disorderly house. In any prosecution for a violation of this section, the town
shall have the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not
by circumstantial evidence.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to physicians or officers in the
discharge of their professional or official duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-4) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.12 NUDITY; INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity; or
   (B)   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-5) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.13 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
      DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of with or without consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and content of the material.
      MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material, or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other
pictorial representation, or any statue or other figure, or any recording,
transcription or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other
articles, equipment or machines.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area
with less than a fully-opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
      OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
         (a)   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole is to
prurient interest, such as shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct,
nudity or excretion;
         (b)   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by 21 O.S.; and
         (c)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
      PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other
exhibition performed before an audience.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
      PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
      SERVICE TO PATRONS. The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages, including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waitering or waitressing and entertaining.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material;
         (b)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity or exhibition by
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
which promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
         (c)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public;
         (d)    Provide service to patrons in such a manner so as to expose to
public view:
            1.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region;
            2.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region; or
            3.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
         (e)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above-listed
unlawful acts.
      (2)   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of
any motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a projectionist,
assistant projectionist, usher or cashier, provided that such person has no
financial interest in the motion picture theater and so long as that person is
not acting as director or manager of the theater.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-6) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.14 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises knowing that it is to be used for the practice of
prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, entice or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for the purpose of prostitution;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      (6)   Be party to an act of prostitution or the solicitation of
prostitution within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-3) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.15 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any intentional, willful or unlawful attempt or offer with force
or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any intentional, willful or unlawful use of force or violence
upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with another
without consent.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-1) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.16 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another
or others by doing any of the acts set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   Acts described. DISTURBING THE PEACE is the doing of any of the
following in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of
another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (7)   Holding an unlawful assembly of three or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others, or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (8)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language or
in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (9)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (10)   Committing any other act in such a manner so as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(Prior Code, § 6-5B-1) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.17 INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Signs. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the
town to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device which in its common
acceptance is insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the town, and
which is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach
of the peace or an assault.
   (B)   Language or literature. It is unlawful for any person to willfully
use, utter, publish, circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive or
insulting language or literature where:
      (1)   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      (2)   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
   (C)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to make use of any profane, vulgar,
violent, abusive or insulting language toward or about another person in his or
her presence or hearing, which language in its common acceptance is calculated
to arouse, to anger the person about or to whom it is spoken or addressed or to
cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
      (2)   No person shall use threatening, abusive, boisterous, insulting or
indecent language or make indecent gestures in public in the town.
      (3)   No person shall use profane, vulgar, violent, abusive or insulting
language toward the Police Chief, Assistant Police Chief or any law enforcement
officer in the town limits while such officer is in the performance of his or
her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-5B-2) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.18 LOUD NOISES.
   (A)   Loud noise, music or amplified sound.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of
any part of the town by operating, having operated or permitting to be operated
any contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle or any other
device, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner so as to emit loud
music, noise or words.
      (2)   However, this division (A) shall not prohibit religious bodies from
playing chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music.
   (B)   Unnecessary noise prohibited; permits for certain activities.
      (1)   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued any
excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the limits of the town.
      (2)   Permits may be granted by the town for certain activities and
events which are exempt from the provisions of this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 6-5B-5) (Ord. 97-06, passed 12-8-1997) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.19 SHOOTING FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The firing or shooting of fireworks is hereby prohibited in town
except from July 1 through July 4, both inclusive, from 10:00 a.m. until 11:00
p.m., except for on July 4, which shall be from 10:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m.
   (B)   Children under the age of 13 must have adult supervision over the age
of 18 when shooting fireworks.
   (C)   Other state statutes regarding this activity shall remain in force and
effect.
(Ord. 10-05, passed 5-11-2010) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.20 STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the town any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder or any other highly-explosive material or
substance of any kind without having first complied with the laws of the state
for the purposes of selling, storing or keeping such items.
(Prior Code, § 6-5B-3) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.21 WEAPONS AND FIREARMS.
   (A)   (1)   Discharging firearms, air rifles or BB guns.
         (a)   No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the town
except when doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself, of another person or of property or when otherwise authorized by law
or ordinance.
         (b)   It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the town.
      (2)   Reckless conduct. It is unlawful for any person to engage in
reckless conduct while having in his or her possession any shotgun, rifle or
pistol, such actions consisting of creating a situation of unreasonable risk
and probability of death or great bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a
conscious disregard for the safety of another person.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons. It is unlawful for any person to carry
concealed upon or about his or her person any pistol, revolver, dagger, Bowie
knife, dirk knife, switchblade knife, spring-type knife, metal knuckles or any
other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument except when doing so in the line
of duty or as may be permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-5B-4)
   (B)   (1)   Weapon carrying generally. It shall be unlawful for any person
to carry upon or about his or her person, or in a purse or other container
belonging to such person, any dagger, Bowie knife, switchblade knife, spring-
type knife, sword cane, knife having a blade which opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife, blackjack, loaded cane, billy, hand chain, metal knuckles or any other
offensive weapon, excluding firearms, whether such weapon be concealed or
unconcealed.
      (2)   Exceptions. However, this division (B) shall not prohibit:
         (a)   The proper use of guns or knives for hunting, fishing or
educational or recreational purposes;
         (b)   The carrying or use of weapons in a manner otherwise permitted
by statute;
         (c)   The carrying, possession and use of any weapon by a peace
officer or other person authorized by law to carry a weapon in the performance
of his or her official duties and in compliance with the rules of the employing
agency; or
         (d)   The carrying and use of any weapons provided in this division
(B) when used for the purpose of living history reenactment. For the purpose of
this division (B)(2)(d), LIVING HISTORY REENACTMENT means the depiction of
historical characters, scenes, historical life or events for entertainment,
education or historical documentation through the wearing or use of period,
historical, antique or vintage clothing, accessories, weapons and other
implements of the historical period.
(Ord. 14-02, passed - -)
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of §§
134.01 through
134.15 of this chapter is punishable as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4)
   (C)   Any person committing an assault or an assault and battery as per §
134.15 of this chapter within the jurisdiction of the town shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-5C-1)
   (D)   Any violation of §
134.19 of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Ord. 10-05, passed 5-11-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   TECHNICAL CODES ADOPTED
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 150: TECHNICAL CODES ADOPTED
Section
   
150.01   Codes adopted by town
§ 150.01 CODES ADOPTED BY TOWN.
   (A)   The codes listed in division (B) below are hereby adopted as the
building, electrical and plumbing codes of the town for regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and
other physical things and the conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupancy and use, and for the demolition of
such structures as herein provided, and by providing for the issuance of
permits and the collection of fees thereof, and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Code
on file in the town office are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Those certain documents, copies of which are on file in the town
office:
      (1)   The 2009 edition, and subsequent updates, of the International
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings;
      (2)   The 2009 edition, and subsequent updates, of the International
Building Code;
      (3)   The 2011 edition, and subsequent updates, of the National
Electrical Code (NEC); and
      (4)   The 2012 edition, and subsequent updates, of the ICC International
Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. 11-06, passed 5-10-2011)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Scope
   
151.03   Administration and enforcement
   
151.04   Permits and fees
Dilapidated Buildings
   
151.15   Definitions
   
151.16   Reporting dilapidated buildings
   
151.17   Abatement procedure
   
151.18   Clearing premises after removal
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of technical codes, see
Ch. 150
   Construction zone, maintenance zone vehicular regulations, see §
70.16
   Destruction of buildings and other property; offenses, see §
132.04
   Health and sanitation regulations; abatement, see
Ch. 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. When used in publications adopted by the town, shall mean
the Planning Commission as set forth in §
33.065 of this code.
   MUNICIPALITY. When used in publications adopted by the town, shall be
construed to mean the Town of Quapaw, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 151.02 SCOPE.
   If any publication adopted by reference in this code of ordinances conflicts
with this Building Code, then this Building Code shall control.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 151.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement and administration of this subchapter shall be conducted by
the Planning Commission as set forth in §
33.065 of this code.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 151.04 PERMITS AND FEES.
   No application for a building permit required by the publication adopted by
the town shall be accepted and no such permit shall be issued until the
following fees have been paid to the town.
   (A)   (1)   For a permit for a new building or structure or for the
alteration of an existing one, the fee passed on the estimated amount of
improvement is as follows.
 
Estimated Amount of Improvement     Fee
Up to $10,000                       $10
Each additional $1,000 over $10,000 $1
Maximum fee                         $10,000
 
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall have the ability to waive a certain
portion of the building permit fee for commercial and industrial developments
with a base rate of the estimated construction price in excess of $500,000.
   (B)   For a permit for the demolition or removal of a building, structure or
part thereof, the fee shall be $5, provided that if the demolition is a
necessary part of the construction or alteration for which a permit has been
issued, then no fee shall be required for such demolition.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 4-12-2011)
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
§ 151.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOARDING AND SECURING or BOARDED AND SECURED. The closing, boarding or
locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
structure.
   CLEANING or CLEANED. The removal of trash or weeds from the premises.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING. The neglect of necessary repairs to a building, or
allowing it to fall into a state of decay, or allowing it to fall into partial
ruin, to such an extent that the building is a hazard to the health, safety or
welfare of the general public.
   UNSECURED BUILDING. A structure which, whether through neglect or injury,
lacks necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to
such an extent that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare
of the general public.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1)
§ 151.16 REPORTING DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS.
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers or receives a report of a
dilapidated building which has become detrimental to the health, benefit or
welfare of the public and the community or which creates a fire hazard to the
danger of property shall report such conditions to the administrative officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2)
§ 151.17 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   The administrative officer may cause dilapidated buildings within the town
limits to be boarded, secured or torn down and removed in accordance with the
following procedures.
   (A)   Notice to property owner.
      (1)   At least ten days’ notice shall be given to the owner of the
property before the town takes action or holds a hearing as provided in
division (B) below. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be
affected.
      (2)   In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the
property owner at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the
office of the County Treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to the last
known address of any mortgage holder as shown by the records in the office of
the County Clerk. At the time of the mailing of notice to any property owner or
mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the Postal
Service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee.
      (3)   If neither the property owner nor mortgage holder can be located,
then notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by
publication, as defined by 11 O.S. § 1-102. Such notice may be published once
not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action to be taken pursuant to
this section.
   (B)   Hearing. A hearing shall be held by the administrative officer to
determine whether the property is dilapidated and has thereby become
detrimental to the health, benefit or welfare of the public and the community,
creates a fire hazard to the danger of property or needs to be boarded and
secured.
   (C)   Abatement by town; cost a lien against property.
      (1)   If the administrative officer finds that the condition of the
property constitutes a detriment or hazard and that the property would be
benefitted by the removal of such conditions or by its boarding and securing,
then the administrative officer may cause the dilapidated building to be torn
down and removed or boarded and secured and shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and completion of the work.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately file a notice of lien
with the County Clerk describing the property and the findings of the
administrative officer at the hearing and stating that the town claims a lien
on the property for the destruction and removal or boarding and securing costs,
and that such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and
after the date of filing of the notice.
   (D)   Right to appeal. The property owner shall have a right of appeal to
administrative officer of the town. If the order is rendered by the
administrative officer, then the right to appeal is to the Town Board of
Trustees. The appeal shall be filed in writing with the Town Clerk-Treasurer
within ten days after the administrative order is rendered.
   (E)   Methods of performing work. If the work is not performed by the
property owner within the dates fixed by the administrative officer, then the
administrative officer shall direct that the tearing down and removal or
boarding and securing be done by one of the following methods:
      (1)   By the town, provided that the actual cost of labor, maintenance
and equipment does not exceed $5,000; or
      (2)   On a private contract basis, in which case, it shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder.
   (F)   Determination of cost.
      (1)   After the building has been torn down and removed or boarded and
secured, the administrative officer shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of the dilapidated building or of its boarding and
securing, as well as of any other expenses as may be necessary in conjunction
therewith, including the costs of notice and mailing.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a statement of such actual
cost attributable to the dismantling and removal or boarding and securing, as
well as a demand for payment, by mail to the property owner at the address
specified in division (A)(2) above. In addition, a copy of the statement shall
be mailed to any mortgage holder at the address specified in division (A)(2)
above. At the time of the mailing of the statement of cost to any property
owner or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
Postal Service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee.
   (G)   Nonpayment; lien against property. If payment is not made within six
months from the date of the mailing of the statement, then the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the
County Treasurer. The town shall have a lien on the property for such cost,
together with the interest thereon, and the lien shall continue until the cost
shall be fully paid.
   (H)   Payment to town; release of lien. When payment is made to the town for
the cost incurred, the town shall file a release of lien or part thereof.
   (I)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
property zoned and used for agricultural purposes.
   (J)   Abatement as nuisance. Nothing in this section shall prevent the town
from otherwise abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise
exercising its police power to protect the public health, safety or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18 CLEARING PREMISES AFTER REMOVAL.
   In all cases in which a house or building has been removed before the
effective date hereof or a house or building is torn down or demolished
pursuant to an order of the State Fire Marshal or one of his or her assistants,
the County Sheriff or the Fire Chief, as provided by state law or as provided
in this chapter, the owner or owners of the lot or lots and the person, firm or
corporation who tore down the house or building shall immediately comply with
the provisions of this subchapter by having the following done if any of the
following conditions exist:
   (A)   The premises have not been cleaned up;
   (B)   The premises are cleaned up but all lumber, brick, concrete, cement,
plaster, nails, wire and other material have not been removed;
   (C)   The material is removed but the cellar space and excavations have not
been filled;
   (D)   A cistern or well has not been filled or safely and securely closed
and all openings to the sanitary sewer have not been plugged to meet the
requirements of the Town Plumbing Inspector and securely closed; and
   (E)   The lot or lots have not been leveled and left entirely free from
trash, or the same be not immediately done.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99(A) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall tear down or begin the tearing down of any house
or building within the town limits as per §§
151.15 through
151.18 of this chapter without having first procured a permit therefor as
herein provided shall be guilty of an offense against the town, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
152.01   Obstructing rights-of-way
   
152.02   Depositing trash and rubbish
   
152.03   Trimming trees and shrubbery
   
152.04   Injuring trees and shrubbery
   
152.05   Permitting hazardous sidewalk conditions
   
152.06   Water and drainage on streets
   
152.07   Playing on streets
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 OBSTRUCTING RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Merchandise. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
place upon or permit to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and
alleys of the town any goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other
obstruction and leave the same thereon, or to use the same as a place to carry
on a business or trade.
   (B)   Interfering with pedestrian or vehicular traffic. It is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the sidewalks of the town in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic thereon, or to use
or obstruct the streets and alleys of the town in any manner so as to interfere
unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 DEPOSITING TRASH AND RUBBISH.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or
sweep into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the town any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or
other refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 TRIMMING TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the town
shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking and between the
sidewalk and the roadway of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery
growing on any part of said premises which is adjacent to the sidewalk or any
street or alley, in such a manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not
obstruct free and convenient passage and travel along the street, sidewalk or
alley.
      (2)   When such premises is occupied by some person other than the owner,
such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as required
of the owner.
   (B)   Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches
or foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the town, provided that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 PERMITTING HAZARDOUS SIDEWALK CONDITIONS.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property
to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk or sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 WATER AND DRAINAGE ON STREETS.
   (A)   Washing vehicles.
      (1)   Prohibition. The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any
street of the town is hereby prohibited.
      (2)   Water and mud from washing vehicles. No automobile or other vehicle
shall be washed at any place within the town where the water, dirt, mud or
other substances removed therefrom by or during the washing thereof shall drain
into or upon any street or sidewalk of the town.
   (B)   Water from filling stations and other businesses. It is unlawful for
any owner or operator of a filling station or other place of business, or any
agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or other fluids to
flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking, street, alley
or other public way.
   (C)   Obstructing flow of water. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to obstruct any street, sidewalk or alley by placing any approach
driveway or other obstruction or substance whatsoever which will obstruct or
prevent the natural flow of water into the storm sewers or drains or dam the
same so as to back any water upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutters.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 PLAYING ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the main traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the town, except as may be authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
   (B)   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim trees
and shrubbery as provided in §
152.03 of this chapter after receiving five days’ notice to do so from the head
of the department in charge of streets shall be guilty of an offense against
the town. Every day that the owner or occupant shall fail, refuse or neglect to
trim the trees or shrubbery after the expiration of the five days’ notice shall
be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Natural gas franchise granting to the Oklahoma Natural Gas
03-06    - -         Company a gas franchise for 25 years for a 2% franchise
                     fee.
                     (Prior Code, Appendix 1)
                     Electric franchise granting to the Empire District
07-01    - -         Electric Company an electric energy franchise for 25 years
                     for a 4% franchise tax.
                     (Prior Code, Appendix 1)
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
08-01    4-10-2008   Annexation of real property into the town limits.
09-05    7-14-2009   Annexation of real property into the town limits.
10-07    6-29-2010   Annexation of real property into the town limits.
18-07    - -2018     Deannexation of real property from the town limits.
18-03    5-8-2018    Deannexation of real property from the town limits;
                     deannexes land annexed 7-14-2009.
18-04    5-8-2018    Deannexation of real property from the town limits;
                     deannexes land annexed 7-14-2009.
18-05    5-8-2018    Deannexation of real property from the town limits;
                     deannexes land annexed 7-14-2009.
18-06    5-8-2018    Deannexation of real property from the town limits;
                     deannexes land annexed 7-14-2009.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cite Code Section
O.S. Cite                    Code Section
11 O.S. 1-102                91.20;
                             151.17
11 O.S. 12-101               30.01
11 O.S. 14-101 et seq.       Ch. 10
11 O.S. 16-112               34.05
11 O.S. 22-101 et seq.       Ch. 10
11 O.S. 27-101               32.01
11 O.S. 27-102               32.01
11 O.S. 27-111               32.06
11 O.S. 27-123               32.17
11 O.S. 27-124               32.17
18 O.S.                      33.005
19 O.S. 866.1 through 866.34 33.081
21 O.S.                      134.13
25 O.S. 301 et seq.          30.04
37A O.S. 1-101               113.01
37A O.S. 2-142(2)            113.05
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.        70.01
47 O.S. Art. VI, Ch. 7       70.03
47 O.S. 7-204                70.03
47 O.S. 7-503                70.03
47 O.S. 7-606                70.03
47 O.S. 11-101 et seq.       70.01
47 O.S. 15-112               73.03
47 O.S. 1102                 70.21
47 O.S. 1134                 70.21
50 O.S. 12                   92.35
50 O.S. 14                   92.35
50 O.S. 15                   92.35
50 O.S. 16                   92.06;
                             92.36
50 O.S. 17                   92.38
51 O.S. 121 et seq.          31.10
59 O.S. 495                  70.21
62 O.S. 517.1 et seq.        35.15
63 O.S. 1-1011               92.20
63 O.S. 2-101                134.10
63 O.S. 2-101.1              134.10
68 O.S. 205                  34.15;
                             34.44
68 O.S. 217                  34.13;
                             34.42
68 O.S. 220                  34.13;
                             34.42
68 O.S. 227                  34.14;
                             34.43
68 O.S. 301                  131.21
68 O.S. 1352                 34.02
68 O.S. 1401                 34.31
68 O.S. 1408                 34.40
68 O.S. 2601 through 2605    34.60
75 O.S. 250 et seq.          32.04
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
1-1-1      10.01
1-1-2      10.02
1-1-3      10.06
1-1-4      10.03
1-1-5      10.11
1-2-1      10.19
1-2-2      10.19
1-2-3      10.21
1-2-4      10.10
           10.04;
1-3-1      10.08;
           10.09;
           10.17
1-3-2      10.08
1-3-3      10.07
1-4-1      10.99
1-4-2      10.99
1-4-3      10.99
1-4-4      10.99
1-5-1      11.01
1-5-2      11.02
1-6-1      30.01
1-6-2      30.02
1-6-3      30.03
1-6-4      30.04
1-6-5      30.06;
           30.07
1-6-6      30.08
1-6-7      30.05
1-7-1      31.05
1-7-2      31.08
1-7-3      31.09
1-7-4      31.10
1-7-5      31.06
1-7-6      31.07
1-7A-1     31.01
1-7A-2     31.01
1-7A-3     31.01
1-7A-4     31.01
1-7A-5     31.01
1-7B-1     31.03
1-7C-1     31.04
1-8-1      32.01
1-8-2      32.02
1-8-3      32.03
1-8-4      32.04
1-8-5      32.05
1-8-6      32.06
1-8-7      32.07
1-8-8      32.08
1-8-9      32.09
1-8-10     32.10
1-8-11     32.11;
           32.12
1-8-12     32.13
1-8-13     32.14
1-8-14     32.15
1-8-15     32.16
1-8-16     32.17
1-8-17     32.18;
           32.19
1-8-18     32.20
1-8-19     32.21
2-1-1      33.065
2-1-2      33.066;
           33.067
2-1-3      33.068
2-1-4      33.069
2-1A-1     33.096
2-1A-2     33.095
2-1A-3     33.097
2-1B-1     33.081
2-1B-2     33.082
2-1B-3     33.080
3-1-1      35.15
3-1-2      35.16
3-1-3      35.17
3-1-4      35.18
3-2-1      34.01
3-2-2      34.02
3-2-3      34.03
3-2-4      34.04
3-2-5      34.05;
           34.06
3-2-6      34.07
3-2-7      34.08
3-2-8      34.09
3-2-9      34.10
3-2-10     34.11;
           34.99
3-2-11     34.12
3-2-12     34.13
3-2-13     34.14
3-2-14     34.99
3-2-15     34.15
3-2-16     34.16
3-2-17     34.17
3-3-1      34.30
3-3-2      34.31
3-3-3      34.32
3-3-4      34.33
3-3-5      34.34
3-3-6      34.36
3-3-7      34.35
3-3-8      34.37
3-3-9      34.38
3-3-10     34.39
3-3-11     34.40
3-3-12     34.41
3-3-13     34.42
3-3-14     34.43
3-3-15     34.99
3-3-16     34.44
3-3-17     34.45
3-4-1      34.60
3-4-2      34.61
3-4-3      34.62
3-4-4      34.63
3-4-5      34.64
4-1-1      110.01
4-1-2      110.02
4-1-3      110.03
           110.04;
4-1-4      110.06;
           110.16
4-1-5      110.06
4-1-6      110.09
4-1-7      110.07
           110.08;
4-1-8      110.10;
           110.11
4-1-9      110.12
4-1-10     110.13
4-1-11     110.05
4-1-12     110.14
4-1-13     110.15
4-1-14     110.99
4-2A-1     113.01
4-2A-2     113.02
4-2A-3     113.04
4-2A-4     113.03;
           113.04
4-2A-5     113.99
4-2A-6     113.05
4-2A-7     113.06
4-2A-8     113.08
4-2A-9     113.07
4-2A-10    113.09;
           113.99
4-2A-11    113.99
4-2B-1     113.20
4-2B-2     113.21
4-2B-3     113.22
4-2B-4     113.21;
           113.23
4-2B-5     113.24
4-2B-6     113.25
4-2B-7     113.99
4-3-1      111.01
4-3-2      111.02;
           111.03
4-3-3      111.03
4-3-4      111.04
4-3-5      111.06
4-3-6      111.05;
           111.99
4-4-1      115.01;
           115.99
5-1-1      91.01
5-1-2      91.02
5-1-3      91.03
5-1-4      91.99
5-2-1      112.01;
           112.99
5-3-1      92.01
5-3-2      92.03
5-3-3      92.04
5-3-4      92.35
5-3-5      92.06
5-3-6      92.05
5-3-7      92.36;
           92.37
5-3-8      92.38
5-3-9      92.20
5-3-10     92.02
5-3-11     92.21
5-3-12     92.39
5-4-1      91.15
5-4-2      91.16;
           91.18
5-4-3      91.17
5-4-4      91.19
5-4-5      91.20;
           91.21
5-5-1      151.15
5-5-2      151.16
5-5-3      151.17
5-5-4      151.18
5-5-5      151.99
5-6-1      93.01
5-6-2      93.02;
           93.04
5-6-3      93.05
5-6-4      93.07
5-6-5      93.05
5-6-6      93.05
5-6-7      93.06
5-6-8      93.08
5-6-9      93.09
5-6-10     93.11
5-6-11     93.10
5-6-12     93.12
5-6-13     93.03
5-6-14     93.99
6-1-1      33.001
6-1-2      33.003
6-1-3      33.002
6-1-4      33.004 through
           33.008
6-2-1      33.020;
           33.021
6-2-7      33.033
6-2-8      33.036
6-2-9      33.037
6-2-10     33.039
6-3-1      33.051
6-3-2      33.050
6-3-3      33.052
6-3-4      33.053
6-3-5      33.054
6-4-1      90.01
6-4-2      90.02
6-4-3      90.03
6-4-4      90.04
6-4-5      90.05
6-4-6      90.06
6-4-7      90.07
6-4-8      90.08
6-4-9      90.09
6-4-10     90.10;
           90.99
6-4-11     90.11;
           90.99
6-4-12     90.12
6-4-13     90.13
6-4-15     90.14;
           90.99
6-5-1      10.05
6-5-2      130.01
6-5-3      130.02
           130.99;
6-5-4      132.99;
           133.99;
           134.99
6-5A-1     132.01;
           132.99
6-5A-2     132.02
6-5A-3     132.04
6-5A-4     132.08
6-5A-5     132.05
6-5A-6     132.06
6-5A-7     132.03;
           132.99
6-5A-8     132.11
6-5A-9     132.10
6-5A-10    132.09
6-5A-11    132.07
6-5B-1     134.16
6-5B-2     134.17
6-5B-3     134.20
6-5B-4     134.21
6-5B-5     134.18
6-5C-1     134.15;
           134.99
6-5C-2     134.07 through
           134.10
6-5C-3     134.14
6-5C-4     134.11
6-5C-5     134.12
6-5C-6     134.13
6-5C-7     134.05
6-5C-9     134.02
6-5C-10    134.06
6-5C-11    134.03
6-5C-12    134.04
6-5D-1     133.01;
           133.02
6-5D-2     133.04
6-5D-3     133.03
6-5D-4     133.09;
           133.10
6-5D-5     133.05
6-5D-6     133.07
6-5D-7     133.06
6-5D-8     133.08
6-6A-1     131.01
6-6A-2     131.02
6-6A-3     131.05
6-6A-4     131.04
6-6A-5     131.03;
           131.06
6-6B-1     131.20
6-6B-2     131.22;
           131.99
6-6B-3     131.23;
           131.99
6-6B-4     131.24;
           131.99
6-6B-5     131.25;
           131.99
6-6B-6     131.21;
           131.99
6-7-1      94.01
6-7-2      94.08
6-7-3      94.09
6-7-4      94.07
6-7-5      94.11
6-7-6      94.05
6-7-7      94.04
6-7-8      94.06
6-7-9      94.03
6-7-10     94.02
6-7-11     94.10;
           94.99
6-7-12     94.14
6-7-13     94.99
6-7A-1     94.27 through
           94.31
6-7A-2     94.25;
           94.99
6-7A-3     94.26
6-7A-4     94.33
6-7A-5     94.32
6-7B-1     94.45
6-7B-2     94.46 through
           94.48
6-7B-3     94.52
6-7B-4     94.50
6-7B-5     94.49;
           94.99
6-7B-6     94.51
7-1-1      70.01
7-1-2      70.02
7-1-3      70.03;
           70.99
7-1-4      70.04;
           70.99
7-1-5      70.05
           70.06;
7-1-6      70.07;
           70.11;
           Ch. 77, Schd. I
7-1-7      70.08
7-1-8      70.36
7-1-9      70.09
7-1-10     70.10
7-1-11     70.12
7-1-12     70.13
7-1-13     70.15
7-1-14     70.16
7-1-15     70.17
7-1-16     70.18
7-1-17     70.35
7-1-18     70.14
7-1-19     70.19
7-1-20     70.20;
           70.99
7-1-21     70.21;
           70.99
7-1-22     70.37 through
           70.41
7-1-23     70.99
7-2-1      72.01
7-2-2      72.02
7-2-3      72.03
7-2-4      72.04
7-2-5      72.05
7-2-6      72.08
7-2-7      72.11
7-2-8      72.12
7-2-9      72.14
7-2-10     72.06
7-2-11     72.10
7-2-12     72.07
7-2-13     72.09
7-3-1      73.02;
           Ch. 78, Schd. I
7-3-2      73.01
7-3-3      73.04
7-3-4      73.05;
           73.06
7-3-5      73.07
7-3-6      73.09
7-3-7      Ch. 78, Schd. II
7-3-8      73.03
7-3-9      73.08
7-3-10     73.10
7-4-1      71.01
7-4-2      71.04
7-4-3      71.05
7-4-4      71.02
7-4-5      71.03
7-4-6      71.06
7-4-7      71.07
7-4-8      71.10
7-4-9      71.11;
           Ch. 77, Schd. II
7-4-10     71.12
7-4-11     71.08;
           71.09
7-5-1      75.22;
           75.23
7-5-2      75.24
7-5-3      75.20
7-5-4      75.26
7-5-5      75.27
7-5-6      75.25
7-5-7      75.28
7-5-8      75.21
7-6-1      74.01
7-6-2      74.02
7-6-3      74.03
7-6-4      74.04
7-6-5      74.05
7-6-6      74.06
7-6-7      74.07
7-6-8      74.08
7-6-9      74.09;
           74.99
7-6-10     74.10
7-6-11     74.11
7-6-12     74.12
7-6-13     74.13
7-6-14     74.14
7-6-15     74.15
           152.03;
8-1-1      152.04;
           152.99
8-1-2      152.01
8-1-3      152.02
8-1-4      152.07
8-1-5      152.05
8-1-6      152.06
8-1-7      152.99
8-2-1      95.01
8-2-2      95.02
8-2-3      95.03;
           95.99
8-3-1      76.04
8-3-2      76.03
8-3-3      76.02
8-3-4      76.01
9-1-1      50.01
           50.02 through
9-1-2      50.04;
           50.25;
           50.26
9-1-3      50.05
9-1-4      50.20
9-1-5      50.21
9-1-6      50.22
9-1-7      50.23
9-1-8      50.24
9-2-1      51.01;
           51.99
9-2-2      51.02 through
           51.04
9-2-3      51.05
9-2-4      51.02
9-2-5      51.06
           51.20 through
9-2-6      51.23;
           51.99
9-3-1      52.01
9-3-2      52.02
9-3-3      52.22
           52.05;
9-3-4      52.20;
           52.21
9-3-5      52.05
9-3-6      52.06
9-3-7      52.35
9-3-8      52.36
9-3-9      52.37
9-3-10     52.07
9-3-11     52.50
9-3-12     52.53
9-3-13     52.51
9-3-14     52.52
9-3-15     52.04
9-3-16     52.99
9-4-1      53.01
9-4-2      53.02
9-4-3      53.08;
           53.12
9-4-4      53.09;
           53.99
           53.06;
9-4-5      53.07;
           53.10;
           53.11
9-4-6      53.04
9-4-7      53.03
9-4-8      53.05
9-4-9      53.13
9-4-10     53.99
10-1-1     150.01
Appendix 1 TSO, Table I
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
09-05    11-10-2009  94.50
17-01    5-10-2011   50.27
15-01    6-9-2015    52.03
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
03-06    - -         TSO, Table I
07-01    - -         TSO, Table I
                     75.01 through
10-01    - -         75.07;
                     75.99
10-02    - -         10.99
10-04    - -         31.02
14-02    - -         134.21
79-A     11-15-1979  34.05
83-2     10-25-1983  34.05
91-02    7-8-1991    94.08
94-02    4-11-1994   51.01;
                     51.99
95-03    11-13-1995  33.095 through
                     33.097
96-01    2-8-1996    33.080 through
                     33.082
                     90.01 through
96-03    9-11-1996   90.14;
                     90.99
                     131.20 through
97-01    1-13-1997   131.25;
                     131.99
97-02    8-11-1997   53.09;
                     53.99
97-05    12-8-1997   70.19
97-06    12-8-1997   134.18
98-01    1-12-1998   131.02
00-02    1-10-2000   30.04
01-02    10-9-2001   50.04;
                     50.25
03-02    6-16-2003   35.17
03-03    6-16-2003   115.01;
                     115.99
03-05    10-14-2003  94.25;
                     94.99
04-01    2-12-2004   34.60 through
                     34.64
07-02    11-16-2007  70.20;
                     70.99
08-01    4-10-2008   TSO, Table II
08-02    6-10-2008   94.10;
                     94.99
09-01    6-9-2009    111.03
09-02    6-9-2009    10.05
09-03    6-9-2009    50.26
09-05    7-14-2009   TSO, Table II
10-05    5-11-2010   134.19;
                     134.99
10-07    6-29-2010   TSO, Table II
11-02    4-12-2011   33.065;
                     33.066
11-03    4-12-2011   151.01 through
                     151.04
                     54.01 through
                     54.08;
                     54.20 through
11-04    5-10-2011   54.25;
                     54.40 through
                     54.44;
                     54.99
11-05    5-10-2011   114.01 through
                     114.07
11-06    5-10-2011   150.01
12-01    7-10-2012   11.02
14-01    2-11-2014   35.01
15-01    11-10-2015  72.13;
                     72.99
17-01    2-14-2017   32.22
18-07    - -2018     TSO, Table II
18-02    2-13-2018   94.13;
                     94.99
18-01    4-10-2018   94.12;
                     94.99
18-03    5-8-2018    TSO, Table II
18-04    5-8-2018    TSO, Table II
18-05    5-8-2018    TSO, Table II
18-06    5-8-2018    TSO, Table II
22-01    3-8-2022    33.038
                    
 
