CITY CODE
of
SAYRE, OKLAHOMA
2002
Contains ordinances up to and including ordinance 11-744, passed November 15,
2011
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
One West Fourth Street  *  3rd Floor  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This city code of the city of Sayre, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 11-744, passed November 15, 2011. Ordinances of the
city adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this city code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
city office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Applicability In Outlying Territory
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Sayre, Oklahoma. This
city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the SAYRE CITY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (1989 Code § 1-101; amd. 2002
Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2002 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code or ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code of ordinances may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection,
or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages. (1989 Code § 1-106)
   B.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language: "Be it ordained by the city council of
the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, that section                        of the code of
ordinances of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as
follows:" (set out new provisions in full). All such amendments or revisions by
ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the said
ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place in each
copy of this city code. Each such replacement page shall be properly identified
and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city code. (1989 Code § 1-
106; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   When the city council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which the
council desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the
following language may be made part of the ordinance:
Section                   : Be it ordained by the city council of the city of
Sayre, Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made
a part of the code of ordinances of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, and the
sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish this intention.
   D.   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to
be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the
case may be. (1989 Code § 1-106)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Said code, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and
shall be returned to the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by
order of the city council. (1989 Code § 1-107; amd. 2002 Code)
1-1-5: APPLICABILITY IN OUTLYING TERRITORY:
All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended to
all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city, outside the
corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar as
they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect in
the future, shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the boundaries of
all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in any
ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited to
the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to mean and include also the
outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1989 Code § 1-110)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this
city code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or
are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city; and all special ordinances.
   B.   The repeal of the ordinances as provided in subsection A of this
section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is accrued, any duty imposed,
any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinances repealed or the term of office of any person holding office
at the time these ordinances take effect; nor shall the repeal of any ordinance
have the effect of reviving any ordinance heretofore repealed or superseded.
(1989 Code § 1-104; amd. 2002 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2002 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this city code. (1989 Code § 1-104; amd. 2002 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code or of any ordinance in the code shall be declared unconstitutional,
illegal or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of
this code of ordinances. (1989 Code § 1-105)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2002 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY OR THIS CITY: The city of Sayre.
CODE: The city code of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be
done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing the
time but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma.
COUNTY OR THIS COUNTY: The county of Beckham, state of Oklahoma.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Sayre".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons, firms, partnerships
and corporations as well.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving "joint authority" to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
LAW: Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the constitution and
statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the city, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MANAGER, BUSINESS MANAGER OR CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS: Words and phrases which are not specifically
defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted usage of the
language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired
a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood
according to such meaning.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
NUMBER: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to
several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words used in
the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary intention
plainly appears.
OATH: Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and
"affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Sayre".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OR, AND: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE OR THIS STATE: The state of Oklahoma.
STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to statutes of the state of Oklahoma as they
now are or as they may be amended to be.
STREET: Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other
public ways in the city which are dedicated and open to public use.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
TENSE: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
WEEK: Seven (7) days.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1989 Code § 1-102; amd. 2002 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1989 Code § 1-103; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the city, an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful, or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine, excluding costs, of not exceeding the maximum penalty as allowed by
state law. Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this
code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 691, 9-21-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in subsection A
of this section. (1989 Code § 1-108; amd. 2002 Code)
1-4-2: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION:
All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law. (1989 Code § 1-
109)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Map Of City Designated As Official Map
1-5-2: Ward Number And Boundaries
1-5-1: MAP OF CITY DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP:
The map of the city showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as the
official map of the city, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the city, including all
annexations. (1989 Code § 1-201; amd. 2002 Code)
1-5-2: WARD NUMBER AND BOUNDARIES:
The city shall be divided into four (4) wards as follows:
   A.   Ward One: All of that portion of the city limits located south of
Kready Street and east of Fourth Street, the center line of Kready Street and
the center line of Fourth Street;
   B.   Ward Two: All of that portion of the city limits located north of the
center line of Kready Street and east of the center line of Fourth Street;
   C.   Ward Three: All of the portion of city located west of the center line
of Fourth and north of the center line of Kready Street; and
   D.   Ward Four: All of that area located south of the center line of Kready
Street and west of the center line of Fourth Street. (1989 Code § 1-102)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Government Organization
1-6-2: Mayor
1-6-3: City Council
1-6-4: Meetings
1-6-5: Council Members Serve On Boards, Committees
1-6-1: GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION:
The city is governed by the statutory aldermanic form of government. The powers
of the city are vested in the mayor and city council. (1989 Code § 2-301)
1-6-2: MAYOR:
   A.   The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council and certify to the
correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. The mayor is
not considered a member of the council for quorum or voting purposes, except
that he may vote on questions under consideration by the council only when the
council is equally divided. The mayor shall be chief executive officer and head
of the administrative branch of the city government. He is also recognized as
the head of the city government for all ceremonial purposes and by the governor
for purposes of military law. He shall have such powers and duties as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance. (1989 Code § 2-201)
   B.   Signing Ordinances; Veto Power: The mayor may sign or veto any city
ordinance or resolution passed by the city council. Any ordinance or resolution
vetoed by the mayor may be passed over his veto by a vote of two-thirds (2/3)
of all the members of the council. If the mayor neglects or refuses to sign any
ordinance or return it with his objections in writing at the next regular
meeting of the council, the ordinance shall become law without his signature.
(1989 Code § 2-202)
1-6-3: CITY COUNCIL:
The council shall consist of eight (8) council members, two (2) elected from
each ward of the city. The council shall elect from among its members a
president of the council. The council president shall be elected in each odd-
numbered year at the first council meeting held after council terms begin or as
soon thereafter as practicable, and he shall serve until his successor has been
elected and qualified. The council president shall act as mayor in the absence
of the mayor. While presiding in the place of the mayor, he shall have all the
powers, rights and privileges as other members of the council. The council
shall have the powers and duties as prescribed by law or ordinance. (1989 Code
§ 2-203; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Day, Time: The city council shall hold a regular meeting at seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. on the third Tuesday of every month. If such a Tuesday
falls on a holiday, the regular meeting shall be held at that time on the next
Tuesday which is not a holiday. (1989 Code § 2-204)
   B.   Place: Every meeting of the council shall be held in the council
chamber in the city hall unless, in case of an emergency, the mayor or the
council members calling a special meeting designate another place in the city
for the holding of the special meeting. An adjourned meeting may be held at any
other place within the city designated by the city council. (1989 Code § 2-205)
1-6-5: COUNCIL MEMBERS SERVE ON BOARDS, COMMITTEES:
At least one council member shall serve as a voting member on each and every
committee or governing board which concerns city property or city monies. (1989
Code § 2-206)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointment Of Personnel
1-7-2: Number, Classification, Compensation
1-7-3: Compensation Fixed
1-7-4: Bond Required
1-7-5: Disciplinary Action, Procedure
1-7-6: Affirmative Action Plan
1-7-1: APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL:
The mayor shall appoint, subject to confirmation by the city council, all heads
or directors of administrative departments, including members of boards and
commissions, and shall appoint all other administrative officers and employees
of the city as may be necessary to exercise the powers and perform the duties
relative to the functions which are lawfully imposed upon or assumed by the
city. (Ord. 617, 5-21-1991; amd. 2002 Code)
1-7-2: NUMBER, CLASSIFICATION, COMPENSATION:
The city council, by motion, resolution or ordinance, may regulate the number
and classes of offices and positions of employment in the various departments,
offices and agencies of the city government, and may determine or regulate the
compensation to be paid to officers and employees. This action must conform to
the established affirmative action plan of the city. (1989 Code § 2-509)
1-7-3: COMPENSATION FIXED:
   A.   Ordinance: The following regular city officials shall be paid salaries
as provided by ordinance:
      1.   Mayor.
      2.   City council members.
   B.   Resolution: The council by resolution may fix or eliminate the
compensation of: (Ord. 719, 12-17-2002)
      1.   City clerk/treasurer. (Ord. 719, 12-17-2002; amd. Ord. 725, 10-21-
2003)
   C.   Motion Or Resolution: The council, by motion or resolution, may fix the
compensation of other personnel. (Ord. 719, 12-17-2002)
1-7-4: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Specified Officials: Before entering upon their official duties, the
following personnel of the city government shall provide bonds for the faithful
performance of their official duties, payable to the city, with a surety
company authorized to operate within the state, in an amount as established by
the city council:
   City clerk/treasurer
City manager
Council members
Fire chief
Mayor
Police chief (Ord. 09-02-17, 2-24-2009)
   B.   Other Officers And Employees: The council, by motion or resolution, may
require other officers and employees in such positions as it may designate to
be bonded.
   C.   Premium Paid By City: The city shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
(1989 Code § 2-508; amd. 2002 Code)
1-7-5: DISCIPLINARY ACTION, PROCEDURE:
   A.   Defined: "Disciplinary action", as used herein, shall mean oral
admonishment, written memorandum, withholding of step increase, suspension with
or without pay, demotion or reduction in pay and/or rank, layoff or dismissal.
All employees of the city are subject to disciplinary action.
   B.   Investigation: Prior to any such action, the department head, if
appropriate, shall conduct an investigation and, if deemed necessary, make a
recommendation for appropriate disciplinary action to the mayor or business
manager, as the case may be. The mayor or business manager, as the case may be,
shall also be entitled to conduct an investigation and shall take appropriate
disciplinary action upon his or her own initiative at his or her sole
discretion.
   C.   Service At Will: All city employees serve at will and may be dismissed
or otherwise disciplined for the good of the service. No portion of this code,
nor any portion of the police department manual, nor any portion of the
personnel manual, nor pattern of practice in the workplace, nor policy, nor
contract, shall be deemed to create or vest any employee with a property or
contractual interest in employment. (Ord. 619, 5-21-1991)
1-7-6: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN:
   A.   Established: There is hereby created an affirmative action plan to
provide equal opportunity within the city government. It shall be the policy of
the city that no person shall be discriminated against on the grounds of race,
creed, color, sex, religion, national origin, or age in employment or other
activities sponsored directly or indirectly by the city.
   B.   Coordinator Appointed: The city council shall appoint a coordinator to
develop a program of affirmative action for equal opportunity. Such programs
shall contain procedures for periodic evaluation to determine changes when
necessary. The coordinator shall work with the substate planning district and
human rights division of the community affairs and planning office in the
development of this program.
   C.   Evaluation Of Program: Any evaluation of the affirmative action program
shall be conducted by a committee chosen by the city council consisting of a
cross section of citizens so as to include minorities. (1989 Code § 2-510)
ARTICLE A.  BUSINESS MANAGER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Office Created
1-7A-2: Appointment
1-7A-3: Powers And Duties
1-7A-4: Compensation
1-7A-5: Oath Of Office; Bond
1-7A-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the position of business manager of the city who shall
be known as the "city manager" or "business manager" of the city. (1989 Code §
2-301)
1-7A-2: APPOINTMENT:
The position shall be filled by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city
council, and the person so appointed shall hold office at-will of the city
council. (Ord. 618, 5-21-1991; amd. 2002 Code)
1-7A-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The business manager shall maintain supervision over all of the various
departments of the city. It shall be his duty to see that the various
departments are operated in an economical and efficient manner and to the best
interest of the city, in cooperation with departmental committees of the city
council. (1989 Code § 2-302)
1-7A-4: COMPENSATION:
The salary of the business manager shall be fixed by resolution of the city
council. (1989 Code § 2-304)
1-7A-5: OATH OF OFFICE; BOND:
The business manager, before assuming office, shall take the usual and regular
oath of office and execute a surety bond to the city in an amount as
established by the city council for the faithful performance of the duties of
his office. (1989 Code § 2-305; amd. 2002 Code)
ARTICLE B.  CITY CLERK/TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Appointment
1-7B-2: Duties
1-7B-1: APPOINTMENT:
The position of city clerk/treasurer shall be filled by the mayor, subject to
the confirmation by the city council, and the person so appointed shall hold
office at will of the city council. (Ord. 724, 6-17-2003; amd. Ord. 725, 10-21-
2003)
1-7B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Attend Meetings, Records, Seal: The city clerk/treasurer shall attend
meetings of the council and shall keep a journal of its proceedings, as
provided by law. He shall enter at length all ordinances passed by the council
in the ordinance book, as required by law. He shall keep the seal of the city
and affix it to documents as required by law or ordinance. (1989 Code § 2-402;
amd. Ord. 725, 10-21-2003)
   B.   Revenues, Deposits, Accounting: The city clerk/treasurer shall receive
all monies of the city paid to him in accordance with law or ordinance and
shall deposit daily all funds coming into his hands in such depositories as the
council may designate. He shall disburse such funds in the manner provided by
applicable law or ordinance. He shall keep proper books of account and other
financial records, properly recording all financial transactions. (1989 Code §
2-404; amd. Ord. 725, 10-21-2003)
   C.   Other Prescribed Powers And Duties: He shall have all other powers and
duties prescribed by law or ordinance. (1989 Code § 2-402)
ARTICLE C.  CITY TREASURER
(Rep. by Ord. 725, 10-21-2003)
ARTICLE D.  CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Appointment, Removal
1-7D-2: Powers And Duties
1-7D-1: APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL:
There shall be a department of law, the head of which shall be the city
attorney, who shall be appointed by the mayor and subject to confirmation by
the city council. Removal of the city attorney shall be at the discretion of
the mayor and council. (1989 Code § 2-501; amd. 2002 Code)
1-7D-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Officer Of City: The city attorney shall be an officer of the city, and
shall have supervision and control of the department of law.
   B.   Chief Legal Advisor: The city attorney shall be the chief legal adviser
of the council, all officers, departments and agencies of the city government
in matters relating to their official powers and duties. He shall represent the
city in proceedings in the courts. He shall perform all services incident to
his position which may be required by law or ordinance. (1989 Code § 2-501)
ARTICLE E.  STREET COMMISSIONER AND DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Appointment
1-7E-2: Public Works Superintendent, Employees
1-7E-1: APPOINTMENT:
There shall be a street commissioner appointed by the mayor, subject to
confirmation by the city council. (1989 Code § 2-502; amd. Res. 1-16-01(B), 1-
16-2001; 2002 Code)
1-7E-2: PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT, EMPLOYEES:
The mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council, may appoint a public
works superintendent and public works employees as they deem necessary. (1989
Code § 2-502; amd. 2002 Code)
ARTICLE F.  HEALTH DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-7F-1: Established
1-7F-2: Powers And Duties
1-7F-1: ESTABLISHED:
There shall be a department of public health, the head of which shall be the
director of the county health department unless another person is appointed by
the mayor for an indefinite term, subject to confirmation by the city council,
and removable by the council. Any mention in the ordinances of the city of
"superintendent of health", "superintendent of public health", or "health
officer", shall be deemed to refer to the county health director unless
otherwise indicated by the context in which such words may be found. He shall
be an officer of the city, and shall have supervision and control of the
department of public health. (1989 Code § 2-503; amd. 2002 Code)
1-7F-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The department of public health shall perform such duties, and have such
powers, as may be prescribed by ordinance, law and the rules and regulations of
the state department of health. (1989 Code § 2-503)
ARTICLE G.  MARSHAL, CHIEF OF POLICE AND FIRE CHIEF
SECTION:
1-7G-1: Marshal
1-7G-2: Chief Of Police
1-7G-3: Fire Chief
1-7G-1: MARSHAL:
There shall be a city marshal, who shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to
confirmation by the city council. He shall have such powers and duties as the
mayor and city council may from time to time determine. (1989 Code § 2-504;
amd. Res. 1-16-01(B), 1-16-2001; 2002 Code)
1-7G-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
There shall be a chief of police, appointed by the mayor for an indefinite
term, subject to confirmation by the city council, and removable by the city
council. The chief of police shall be an officer of the city, and shall have
supervision and control of the police department. The mayor, with the approval
of the council, and upon the recommendation of the chief of police, shall hire
such other police officers as the mayor and council deem necessary. (1989 Code
§ 2-504; amd. 2002 Code)
1-7G-3: FIRE CHIEF:
There shall be a fire chief, appointed by the mayor for an indefinite term,
subject to confirmation by the city council, and removable by the city council.
The fire chief shall be an officer of the city, and shall have supervision and
control of the fire department. The chief shall appoint volunteer members of
the fire department in a manner directed by this code and bylaws of the fire
department. (Ord. 09-02-17, 2-24-2009)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Officers; Terms
1-8-2: When Elections Conducted
1-8-1: OFFICERS; TERMS:
   A.   In a statutory aldermanic city, the terms of the elected officers shall
be staggered so that at any one general municipal election, the following
officers are to be elected for four (4) year terms:
      1.   One council member from each ward; and
      2.   The mayor;
   B.   At the next general municipal election, the following officers are to
be elected for four (4) year terms:
      1.   One council member from each ward. (1989 Code § 2-102; amd. Res. 1-
16-01(B), 1-16-2001; Ord. 724, 6-17-2003)
1-8-2: WHEN ELECTIONS CONDUCTED:
   A.   General: General municipal elections are held on the first Tuesday in
April of each odd numbered year.
   B.   Primary: A primary election shall be held the first Tuesday of March in
each odd numbered year, at which time the several political parties shall
nominate candidates for offices which are to be elected at the upcoming general
municipal election. (1989 Code § 2-102; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 9
SOCIAL SECURITY AND RETIREMENT
ARTICLE A.  SOCIAL SECURITY
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Purpose And Policy
1-9A-2: Agreement With State
1-9A-3: Withholdings
1-9A-4: Contributions
1-9A-5: Records And Reports
1-9A-6: Exclusions
1-9A-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend, at
the earliest date, to the eligible employees and officials of the city, the
benefits of the system of federal old age and survivors insurance as authorized
by the federal social security act and all amendments thereto, and 51 Oklahoma
Statutes section 121 et seq. In pursuance of this policy, the officers and
employees of the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations. (1989 Code § 2-601)
1-9A-2: AGREEMENT WITH STATE:
The mayor is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and
amendments with the state department of human services to accomplish the
provisions of section
1-9A-1 of this article. (1989 Code § 2-602)
1-9A-3: WITHHOLDINGS:
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purposes
provided in section
1-9A-1 of this article are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at
such times as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated
by the laws and regulations. (1989 Code § 2-603)
1-9A-4: CONTRIBUTIONS:
Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts appropriated for these
purposes from available funds to the designated state or federal agency in
accordance with applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (1989 Code §
2-604)
1-9A-5: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The city shall keep such records and submit such reports as may be required by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (1989 Code § 2-607)
1-9A-6: EXCLUSIONS:
Excluded from this article authorizing the extension of social security
benefits to city officers and employees are the following:
   A.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
city, including specifically the city's firefighters' pension and retirement
system and fund established in article B of this chapter; or
   B.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations. (1989 Code § 2-606; amd. 2002 Code)
ARTICLE B.  FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION AND RETIREMENT FUND
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Firefighters' Pension And Retirement Board
1-9B-2: Operation Of Fund
1-9B-3: Contributions
1-9B-1: FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION AND RETIREMENT BOARD:
There is hereby created a local firefighters' pension and retirement board,
composed of the mayor, the city clerk, the city treasurer and three (3) members
from the fire department. The board shall have the membership, organization,
powers, duties and functions as prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 49-
103 et seq. (1989 Code § 2-701)
1-9B-2: OPERATION OF FUND:
The firefighters' pension and retirement system and fund shall be operated in
accordance with state law relating to the fund and system. (1989 Code § 2-702)
1-9B-3: CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   Deductions: The city clerk shall deduct from the salaries or wages of
each paid member of the fire department the amounts which are required by
applicable state law. If the members of the fire department, by a majority vote
of its paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts
authorized by this subsection shall be increased to reflect the amounts
approved by the majority vote. The city treasurer shall deposit monthly in the
Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement fund the amounts deducted
pursuant to this subsection. Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a
fire department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The
deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to
ascertain the exact amount which he is contributing. (1989 Code § 2-703; amd.
2002 Code)
   B.   Deposits: The city treasurer shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
firefighters' pension and retirement board the amounts of money which are
required by applicable state law for each paid member of the fire department.
   C.   Volunteer Members: For each volunteer member of the fire department,
the city treasurer shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma firefighters' pension
and retirement board the amounts of money which are required by applicable
state law. These amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and
amounts as set by the Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement board.
   D.   Transfer Of Assets: All assets of the firefighters' pension and
retirement fund shall be transferred to the Oklahoma firefighters' pension and
retirement board. Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable
securities and such other specific assets as permitted by the state board.
(1989 Code § 2-703)
ARTICLE C.  EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-9C-1: System Established
1-9C-2: Administration
1-9C-3: Fund
1-9C-4: Appropriations
1-9C-5: Execution
1-9C-1: SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the state, and for the
purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the part of city
employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is hereby authorized,
created, established and approved and adopted, the funded pension plan
designated "employee retirement system of Sayre, Oklahoma, defined contribution
plan", (hereinafter called "system"), and as amended from time to time, an
executed counterpart of which and all amendments thereto are marked as exhibits
to the ordinances adopting or amending the system. Exhibits and amendments are
on file in the city office. (1989 Code § 2-710; amd. 2002 Code)
1-9C-2: ADMINISTRATION:
For the purpose of administration of the system, there is hereby established a
board of trustees, which shall be the members of the city council, as now
existing or as from time to time duly elected or appointed and constituted. The
powers and duties of the board of trustees shall be as set forth in the system
instrument marked as an exhibit. (1989 Code § 2-711; amd. 2002 Code)
1-9C-3: FUND:
A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the persons
entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such fund shall be
paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the city treasurer, who
shall be the treasurer of the system. Such fund shall be pooled for purposes of
management and investment with similar funds of other incorporated cities,
towns and municipal trusts in the state as a part of the Oklahoma municipal
retirement fund in accordance with the trust agreement of the Oklahoma
municipal retirement fund, a public trust. The city treasurer shall hold such
contributions in the form received, and from time to time pay over and transfer
the same to the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund, as duly authorized and
directed by the board of trustees. The fund shall be nonfiscal and shall not be
considered in computing any levy when the annual estimate is made to the county
excise board. (1989 Code § 2-712)
1-9C-4: APPROPRIATIONS:
The city is hereby authorized to incur the necessary expenses for the
establishment, operation and administration of the system, and to appropriate
and pay the same. In addition, the city is hereby authorized to appropriate
annually such amounts as are required in addition to employee contributions to
maintain the system and the fund in accordance with the provisions of the
defined contribution plan. Any appropriation so made to maintain the system and
fund shall be for deferred wages or salaries, and for the payment of necessary
expenses of operation and administration to be transferred to the trustees of
the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund for such purposes, and shall be paid
into the fund when available, through the city treasurer, to be by him duly
transferred to the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund. (1989 Code § 2-713)
1-9C-5: EXECUTION:
   A.   The mayor and city clerk be and they are each hereby authorized and
directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an
original) the system instrument, and to do all other acts and things necessary,
advisable and proper to put the system and related trust into full force and
effect, and to make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the
same under sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the internal revenue code of the
United States. The counterpart attached as an exhibit, which has been duly
executed as aforesaid in section
1-9C-1 of this chapter, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects. (1989
Code § 2-714; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   The city council is hereby authorized and directed to proceed
immediately on behalf of the city to pool and combine the fund into the
Oklahoma municipal retirement fund as a part thereof, with similar funds of
such other cities and towns, for purposes of pooled management and investment.
(1989 Code § 2-714)
CHAPTER 10
FINANCES AND PURCHASING
SECTION:
1-10-1: Depositories Designated; Deposits
1-10-2: Unit Collateral System
1-10-3: Contractual Services Defined For Purchasing
1-10-4: Purchases
1-10-5: Payment Of Municipal Obligations
1-10-6: Competitive Bidding
1-10-7: Sales Of Supplies, Materials Or Equipment
1-10-8: Council And Other Officers; Purchases, Contracts
1-10-9: Budget And Appropriations
1-10-10: Funding And Accounting Generally
1-10-11: Sinking Fund
1-10-12: Warrants; Disbursement Of Funds
1-10-13: Bonds; Issuance And Sale
1-10-14: Examination, Audit
1-10-15: Insurance For Property, Vehicles
1-10-1: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; DEPOSITS:
Funds of the city shall be deposited as required by law. All banks and all
savings and loan associations in this city which are incorporated under federal
or state law are hereby designated as depositories for the funds of the city.
The city treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds received by him in such
banks or savings and loan associations. Funds may be transferred from one
depository to another as the council may direct by motion or resolution. (1989
Code § 7-101)
1-10-2: UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM:
The deposits of the city shall be secured by the unit collateral system
provided by the Oklahoma Statutes. (1989 Code § 7-102)
1-10-3: CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED FOR PURCHASING:
"Contractual services", for the purpose of this chapter, shall mean services
performed for the city by persons not in the employment of the city, and may
include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in connection
with said services under express or implied contract. "Contractual services"
shall include travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage; telephone;
telegraph; utilities; rents; printing out; binding; repairs, alterations and
maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and bridges, and other physical
facilities of the city; and other services performed for the city by persons
not in the employment of the city. (1989 Code § 7-103)
1-10-4: PURCHASES:
   A.   How Made: All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and
contractual services for the offices, departments and agencies of the city
government, shall be made by the city council, or pursuant to authorizations
granted by it, and subject to its supervision and control. (1989 Code § 7-104)
   B.   When Prior Approval By Council Required: Every contract for, or
purchase of, supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services for more
than the amount allowed for public trusts in 60 Oklahoma Statutes sections 176
through 180.4 shall require the prior approval of the city council; and under
no circumstances may such contract or purchase be made without first obtaining
the approval of the council. (Ord. 675, 10-20-1998; amd. 2002 Code)
1-10-5: PAYMENT OF MUNICIPAL OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Law: Claims and invoices against the city shall be made
and processed as provided by law. (1989 Code § 7-114)
   B.   Community Development Block Grant Invoices:
      1.   Internal Control Structure: The city council does hereby authorize
the city treasurer and city clerk, or their designee, to approve payment of any
community development block grant invoices submitted against the city for
payment. In this regard, the city treasurer shall establish an internal control
structure adequate to provide reasonable assurance against the unauthorized or
illegal payment of community development block grant invoices. Such system of
internal control should include the following procedures:
         a.   Proper authorization of transactions and activities;
         b.   Adequate segregation of duties;
         c.   Adequate documents and records;
         d.   Adequate safeguards over access to and use of assets and records;
and
         e.   Independent checks on performance.
      2.   Control Environment, Accounting System: Further, two (2) additional
elements of the internal control structure, which are the control environment
and the accounting system, must be included. The control environment shall
consist of the overall attitude, awareness and actions of the governing body
and management, including a foresighted management policy toward financial
reporting.
      3.   Result: The methods and records of an effective accounting system
shall result in:
         a.   Identification and recording of all valid transactions;
         b.   Description on a timely basis of the type of transaction in
sufficient detail to permit proper classification of the transaction for
financial reporting;
         c.   Measurement of the transaction's value in a manner that permits
recording of its monetary value in the financial statements;
         d.   Determination of the time period in which the transaction
occurred to permit recording of the transaction in the proper accounting
period; and
         e.   Proper presentation of the transaction and related disclosure in
financial statements.
      4.   Competitive Bidding:
         a.   The city shall be subject to and governed by all provisions of
the Oklahoma public competitive bidding act as set forth in 61 Oklahoma
Statutes section 101 et seq., as amended.
         b.   The public works authority shall be subject to and governed by
all provisions as set forth in 60 Oklahoma Statutes section 176. (Ord. 688, 8-
17-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
1-10-6: COMPETITIVE BIDDING:
   A.   Policy: Before any city employee makes any purchase of, or contract
for, supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services, except as
otherwise provided below, he shall submit to at least three (3) persons, firms
or corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, or to a smaller number
if there are not three (3) dealing in and able to supply the same, a request
for quotation, or invitation to bid, and specifications, to give them
opportunity to bid; and/or publish notice of the proposed purchase in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city. He shall favor a person, firm
or corporation in the city when this can be done without additional cost to the
city; but he shall submit requests for quotation to those outside the city when
this may be necessary to secure bids or to create competitive conditions, or
when he thinks that by so doing he can make a saving for the city; and shall
purchase from them when he can make a saving for the city. All bids shall be
sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated time and place. He may
repeatedly reject all bids, and again may submit to the same or other persons,
firms or corporations the request for quotation, or invitation to bid, and/or
again publish notice of the proposed purchase. He may purchase from the bidder
whose bid is most advantageous to the city, considering price, quality, date of
delivery and so on, and in case of a tie, may purchase from one of those tying,
or may divide the purchase among those tying, always accepting the bid or bids
most advantageous to the city. (1989 Code § 7-106)
   B.   When Competitive Bidding Not Required: The following may be purchased
without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding: (1989 Code § 7-107)
      1.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services whose cost
does not exceed the amount allowed for public trusts in 60 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 176 through 180.4 on a single transaction; (Ord. 675, 10-20-1998; amd.
2002 Code)
      2.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
      3.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased
from another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from
private dealers, including government surplus;
      4.   Equipment to replace existing equipment which has become inoperable
when the council declares the purchase an emergency;
      5.   Contractual services, including, but not limited to, natural gas,
electricity, telephone service, purchased from a public utility at a price or
rate determined by the state corporation commission or other governmental
authority;
      6.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services when
purchased at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state purchasing
agency or any other state agency hereafter authorized to regulate prices for
things purchased by the state, whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise; and
      7.   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural and medical services unless competitive bidding is required by
applicable law or regulations. (1989 Code § 7-107)
1-10-7: SALES OF SUPPLIES, MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Obsolete Or Surplus Declared: No surplus or obsolete supplies,
materials or equipment may be sold until the council shall have declared them
obsolete or surplus. Before the city sells any surplus or obsolete supplies,
materials or equipment, except as otherwise provided in subsection B of this
section, it shall advertise them for sale in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city or give notice in such other manner as it deems necessary to
adequately reach prospective buyers to give them opportunity to make necessary
bids. All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated
time and place, except when the sale is by auction. The city may repeatedly
reject all bids and advertise or give notice again. The city shall sell such
supplies, materials or equipment to the highest responsible bidder. In case of
a tie, if necessary, it shall cast lots to determine to whom to sell, or may
divide the sale among two (2) or more tying, always selling to the highest
responsible bidder or bidders. (1989 Code § 7-108; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   When Competitive Bidding Not Required: The city may sell the following
without giving an opportunity for competitive bidding:
      1.   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total
value does not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in a single transaction;
and
      2.   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the city for the same. (1989 Code § 7-109)
1-10-8: COUNCIL AND OTHER OFFICERS; PURCHASES, CONTRACTS:
   A.   No member of the city council may sell, or furnish for a consideration,
any materials or supplies for use of the city; and any member of the council
voting for, or consenting to, or being a party to, such contract or purchase is
personally liable as provided by state law.
   B.   The city council shall not make any contract with any of its members,
or in which any of its members shall be directly or indirectly interested, such
contracts being prohibited by law.
   C.   No officer of the city may become directly or indirectly interested
individually in any sale, lease or contract which he is authorized to make,
such being prohibited by law. (1989 Code § 7-110)
1-10-9: BUDGET AND APPROPRIATIONS:
   A.   Budget Meeting: The city council shall meet in session on a date that
is agreeable to the majority of the council members to develop a budget,
including the estimated needs and probable income, for the next fiscal year, in
the manner required by law.
   B.   Appropriations: Appropriations for the city shall be made as provided
by law.
   C.   Unencumbered Appropriations: Unencumbered appropriation balances of
items of less immediately urgent need, or any part thereof, may be transferred
to other items of appropriation to meet more immediately urgent needs in the
manner provided by law. (1989 Code § 7-111)
1-10-10: FUNDING AND ACCOUNTING GENERALLY:
The revenues and other resources of the city shall be divided into funds as
provided by law and accounted for as provided thereby. (1989 Code § 7-112)
1-10-11: SINKING FUND:
   A.   Use: It is the duty of the officers of the city to handle, deposit,
invest, and use the money in the sinking fund of the city in the manner
provided by law.
   B.   Deposits: The city treasurer shall deposit daily all uninvested sinking
fund money in his hands in banks as provided by law. (1989 Code § 7-113)
1-10-12: WARRANTS; DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS:
Warrants shall be issued and processed, and funds of the city disbursed, only
for legal purposes and in accordance with law. (1989 Code § 7-115)
1-10-13: BONDS; ISSUANCE AND SALE:
Bonds of the city shall be issued, sold, paid and handled in all respects as
provided by law. (1989 Code § 7-116)
1-10-14: EXAMINATION, AUDIT:
   A.   Examination Of Books: The books of the city treasurer shall be subject
to examination by the city council at all times, as provided by law. Likewise,
the records of the city clerk and of all other officers and employees of the
city shall be subject to inspection by the city council at all times.
   B.   Audit Of Financial Records: The city council shall designate a
qualified public accountant to audit the financial records and transactions of
the city treasurer, the city clerk, and all other personnel of the city who
keep financial records and make financial transactions, as of the end of every
fiscal year at least; the accountant shall make such audit and shall report to
the city council.
   C.   Petition Of Voters For Audit: Upon petition of a number of voters of
the city equal at least to twenty five percent (25%) of the number of people
voting at the last general city election for the city office receiving the
highest number of votes, the financial books and records of the city will be
audited by the state auditor and inspector as provided by law. (1989 Code § 7-
117)
1-10-15: INSURANCE FOR PROPERTY, VEHICLES:
   A.   Property Insurance: The city council may insure property of the city as
authorized by law. Any money received as a result of destruction, damages or
loss of such insured property, shall be accounted for and used as provided by
law.
   B.   Liability Insurance: The city council may purchase insurance to pay
damage to persons sustaining injuries or damages to property as a result of
negligent operation of vehicles, motorized equipment of the city, or any acts
of the city as authorized by law. (1989 Code § 7-118)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Emergency Management Agency Created
2-1-3: Powers And Duties
2-1-4: Compensation; Liability
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to create an emergency management agency for the
city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of such city. The duty of such
emergency management agency shall be the protection of the lives and health of
the citizens of the city and of property rights, both private and public, and
to perform all functions necessary and incident thereto. (1989 Code § 13-301;
amd. 2002 Code)
2-1-2: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY CREATED:
There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of the
city an emergency management agency, which shall consist of:
   A.   Director: A director of emergency management who shall be nominated by
the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council. Removal of the director
shall be at the discretion of the mayor and council;
   B.   Advisory Committee: An emergency management advisory committee. This
committee shall consist of the mayor as chairman and five (5) members appointed
by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council. The committee shall
select from its members a vice chairman and secretary. It shall hold such
meetings as are directed by the mayor or the director of emergency management.
(1989 Code § 13-302; amd. 2002 Code)
2-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Director:
      1.   The director of emergency management shall be the executive head of
the emergency management agency and shall be responsible for carrying out the
emergency management program of the city. He shall serve without compensation
but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his duties.
It shall be the duty of the director of emergency management as soon as
practicable after his appointment, to perfect an organization to carry out the
purposes set forth in this chapter. He shall have all necessary power and
authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint and designate the
chairman or chief officer of such bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an
organization. He shall have such further duty and responsibility to cooperate
with all emergency management agencies of other governmental units, including
the state and federal government. He shall be an officer of the city and shall
have the power necessary to enforce the duties provided in this chapter. (1989
Code § 13-303; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   The director of emergency management is further authorized to
formulate written plans and gather information and keep written records thereof
to govern the functions of the emergency management agency. He may carry out
plans with the state officials of emergency management in cooperating with the
federal government and to make available to the city and county program the
benefits of public law 85-606, subject to the approval of the city council, the
county and emergency management committee. (1989 Code § 13-304; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Emergency Powers: In the event of an enemy caused emergency or
emergency resulting from natural causes, the director of emergency management,
after due authorization from the city council, shall have the power and
authority to enforce all rules and regulations relating to emergency management
and, if necessary, take control of transportation, communications, stocks of
fuel, food, clothing, medicine and public utilities for the purpose of
protecting the civilian population. He shall cooperate in every way with the
activities of other governmental agencies or emergency management
organizations. If required by the mayor, he shall have control over any and all
funds allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating distress
conditions in the city. (1989 Code § 13-305; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Enforcement Of Laws And Ordinances: The director of emergency
management and other members of the emergency management organization created
by him shall have the power and authority to enforce the laws of the state and
ordinances of the city during the period of emergency, and shall at such time
have the further power to make arrests for violations of such laws or
ordinances. (1989 Code § 13-306; amd. 2002 Code)
2-1-4: COMPENSATION; LIABILITY:
All members of the emergency management organization created hereunder shall
serve without compensation; and the city shall not be liable for any personal
injury received by any member of such organization while acting in line of
duty. (1989 Code § 13-307; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Established
2-2-2: Appointment
2-2-3: Tenure Of Office
2-2-4: Officers
2-2-5: Powers And Duties
2-2-6: Park Property Defined
2-2-7: Members; Contracts, Interest In Property
2-2-8: Gifts To City
2-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a park commission for the city. This organization
shall be called the board of park commissioners of the city. (1989 Code § 11-
101)
2-2-2: APPOINTMENT:
The board of park commissioners shall consist of five (5) persons, to be
appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council. One of the
appointed commissioners shall be a council member. (1989 Code § 11-102; amd.
2002 Code)
2-2-3: TENURE OF OFFICE:
The term of office of the members of the board of park commissioners shall be
as follows: one commissioner shall be appointed for a term of one year; two (2)
commissioners for a term of two (2) years; and two (2) commissioners for a term
of three (3) years. At the expiration of the terms of office of the first
commissioners appointed hereunder, each park commissioner shall be appointed
for a term of three (3) years and until his successor in office has been
appointed and qualified. The terms of the commissioners shall begin on May 1.
Any vacancy which may occur through death, resignation or otherwise, may be
filled for the unexpired term in like manner. No commissioner shall be eligible
to succeed himself in office, except the original board, whose terms of office
shall expire May 1, 1975. No compensation for services of the commission shall
be allowed to any member thereof. Special meetings of the park commission may
be called by the chairman or a majority of the commissioners. The board shall
determine the time of its regular meetings. (1989 Code § 11-103)
2-2-4: OFFICERS:
The board shall, when so appointed, elect one of its number chairman of the
board and another vice chairman, and the board shall elect a member secretary,
and thereafter such officers shall be chosen on the first Monday of May in each
year or as soon thereafter as practicable. (1989 Code § 11-104)
2-2-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of park commissioners shall act in an advisory capacity to the mayor
and council in connection with the care, management and control of all parks
and grounds used for park purposes, all boulevards and parkways, now or
hereafter owned by or under the control of the city. The board shall advise
with, and suggest to, the mayor and council methods of improving and adorning
parks, boulevards and parkways. The board shall have power to make and alter,
from time to time, necessary rules and regulations for the maintenance of
order, safety and decency in the parks, both within and without the limits of
the city; provided, that no such rules or regulations shall be of any effect
unless they shall have been first approved by the city council. For the purpose
of enforcing such rules and regulations, all such parks and property within or
without the limits of the city are hereby placed under the police jurisdiction
of the city. Any member of the police department may arrest, without warrant,
in any such parks or places, whether within or without the limits of the city,
any person who has broken any park rule or committed any violation of such
rules or the ordinances of the city in the park, and the municipal court of the
city shall have jurisdiction of all such violations committed within the limits
of the parks. (1989 Code § 11-105)
2-2-6: PARK PROPERTY DEFINED:
The term "park property" includes all parks, street parkings and all buildings,
structures, improvements, seats, benches, foundations, boats, floats, walks,
drives, roads, trees, plants, herbages, flowers, and other things thereon, and
the enclosures of the same, and all trees on streets or thoroughfares, resting
places, water stations, playgrounds, or the like, and all boulevards, parkways,
roads or drives between parks. (1989 Code § 11-106)
2-2-7: MEMBERS; CONTRACTS, INTEREST IN PROPERTY:
No member of the board of park commissioners shall be concerned in any contract
with the city or any of its departments, either as contractor, subcontractor,
bondsman, or other party directly or indirectly interested. (1989 Code § 11-
107)
2-2-8: GIFTS TO CITY:
Real or personal property may be granted, bequeathed, devised or conveyed to
the city for the purpose of the improvement or ornamentation of such parks or
approaches, or for the establishment or maintenance therein of museums,
zoological or other gardens, collections of natural history, observatories,
monuments, statues, fountains, or other works of art, upon such trusts and
conditions as may be prescribed by the grantors or devisors thereof, and
accepted by the city council of the city. All property so devised, granted,
bequeathed or conveyed, and the rents, issues, profits and income thereof shall
be subject to the exclusive management, direction and control of the city.
(1989 Code § 11-108)
CHAPTER 3
AIRPORT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Created
2-3-2: Quorum
2-3-3: Organization
2-3-4: Meetings
2-3-5: Powers And Duties
2-3-1: CREATED:
An airport commission is hereby created. It shall consist of five (5)
appointive members, all of whom shall be citizens of the city. The five (5)
appointive members shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by
the city council, and shall serve for terms of three (3) years or until their
successors take office. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of the
term shall be filled for unexpired terms. The members shall serve without
compensation, and a member of the city council shall serve as a member of the
airport commission. The council may remove a member of the airport commission
only for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office. Members shall
be appointed with reference to their fitness and not party affiliation. (1989
Code § 16-301; amd. 2002 Code)
2-3-2: QUORUM:
Three (3) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. No action shall be taken which is binding upon the
commission, unless concurred by not less than a majority of all members
comprising the commission. (1989 Code § 16-302)
2-3-3: ORGANIZATION:
The commission shall elect a chairman, a vice chairman and a secretary, and may
create and fill such other offices as it may deem necessary. The term of the
officers shall be for one year with eligibility for reelection. (1989 Code §
16-303)
2-3-4: MEETINGS:
The airport commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each month, and
shall comply in all respects with the Oklahoma open meeting law. The commission
shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and keep a record of its
regulations, transactions, findings and determinations, which records shall be
a public record. (1989 Code § 16-304)
2-3-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall have the general responsibility of maintenance and
operation of the Sayre municipal airport and surrounding property within the
limits of law regarding receipts of public monies, appropriations and
expenditures. The commission shall:
   A.   Leases For Rental: Negotiate leases for aircraft hanger rental, within
the terms and at the rates fixed by the mayor and council;
   B.   Rental Of Land: Negotiate rental of the farmland and grazing land, with
ratification by the council;
   C.   Improvements: Make recommendations to the mayor and council regarding
the need for improvements at the municipal airport;
   D.   State And Federal Grants: With the ratification of the mayor and
council, apply for, receive and administer state and federal grants;
   E.   Deposit Of Monies: Arrange for the deposit of all monies collected in
connection with the operation of the municipal airport to be made with the city
clerk; and
   F.   Other Recommendations: Make such other recommendations as the
commission may deem advisable. (1989 Code § 16-305)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: Tax For License; Term
3-1-3: Display Of License
3-1-4: Transfer Prohibited
3-1-5: Duplicate License
3-1-6: Revocation
3-1-7: Penalty
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every person, firm, association or corporation who engages in, exercises or
pursues a business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a
license is required, at or from more than one place in the city, or who engages
in, exercises or pursues more than one such business, profession, trade,
occupation or privilege, shall pay the fee, and secure a separate license for
each such place or for each such business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege. (1989 Code § 9-104)
3-1-2: TAX FOR LICENSE; TERM:
   A.   Tax: It is unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation to
engage in, exercise or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege for which a license tax is levied by this chapter or by any other
ordinance or ordinance provision without paying the license tax, and securing
and possessing a valid license therefor. Upon making proper application to the
city clerk, the payment of the license tax and fulfillment of any other
condition which may be prescribed by law and/or ordinance, the city clerk shall
issue a license therefor. Such license taxes shall be credited to the general
fund of the city.
   B.   Term: Annual licenses shall expire on April 30 of the year for which
they are issued. When an annual license is issued after May 1 for the remainder
of the year to a person, firm, association or corporation just beginning to
engage in, exercise or pursue a business, profession, trade occupation or
privilege, the tax collected shall be a fractional part of the annual tax equal
to the fraction of the year remaining, in an amount such as established by
resolution of the city council. (1989 Code § 9-103; amd. 2002 Code)
3-1-3: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege, shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his place of business or activity where a
person who has entered the place may readily see it; or, if he has no
particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and shall
display it to any person who requests to see it. However, in lieu of the above
manner of displaying such licenses, when licenses are required for coin-
operated music or amusement devices, vending machines, and similar devices and
equipment, the license may be placed on or attached to such device or equipment
in such position and manner that it will be clearly visible; and shall be so
placed or attached if the license so states on its face. It is unlawful to fail
or refuse to display the license as required in this section. (1989 Code § 9-
105)
3-1-4: TRANSFER PROHIBITED:
The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in this city.
(1989 Code § 9-107)
3-1-5: DUPLICATE LICENSE:
Whenever any license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business, profession,
trade, occupation or privilege, has been lost or destroyed without any wrongful
act or connivance by the holder, the city clerk, on application, shall issue a
duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the duplicate is issued, the
holder shall make and file with the city clerk an affidavit that the license
has not been transferred, that it has been lost or destroyed without any
wrongful act or connivance by the holder, and that, if believed lost, he has
made diligent search for it and has not been able to find it. The fee for every
duplicate license issued, payable to the city clerk, shall be in such amounts
as established by resolution of the city council. (1989 Code § 9-108; amd. 2002
Code)
3-1-6: REVOCATION:
Any license issued to any person, firm, association or corporation to engage
in, exercise or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege
may be revoked by the city council after adequate opportunity for a hearing for
any one of the following reasons:
   A.   The licensee is engaging in, exercising or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege in such a manner that he has created
or is creating a public nuisance as defined by 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1
and 2, or any nuisance enumerated in this code; or
   B.   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances. Valid licenses
may be revoked only when the business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege is one which the city council has power to prohibit because of its
nature or because of the manner in which it is engaged in, exercised or
pursued. (1989 Code § 9-106)
3-1-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, association or corporation who shall engage in any business,
profession, trade or occupation, or exercise any privilege, for which a license
is required by this title, without a valid license as thereby required, or who
shall violate any provision of this title shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition to this penalty, the license of a license
holder may be suspended or revoked for violation of any applicable provision of
this title. (1989 Code § 9-301)
ARTICLE A.  OTHER BUSINESS AND AMUSEMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Pawnbrokers
3-1A-2: Fortunetelling; Fees Prohibited
3-1A-3: Short Weights And Measures Prohibited
3-1A-4: Consent Required For Sale Of Personal Property On Or In Vacant Property
3-1A-5: Auctions On Streets And Sidewalks Unlawful
3-1A-1: PAWNBROKERS:
   A.   Register, Records Required: Every pawnbroker shall keep at his place of
business a register in which he shall record in ink or with indelible pencil an
adequate description of all property purchased, taken or received by him,
including any number that may be thereon. He shall record in the register the
date when all property is received and also the name and place of residence of
the person leaving or pledging the property, including his street and street
number, if any. He shall also record his age, color, color of eyes and hair,
weight and height, unless he is acquainted with him. He shall record in the
register the amount loaned, the interest or any other charges, and the time
when the loan is to become due. All such entries shall be made within one hour
after the purchase or receipt of property. The register shall be kept clean and
legible.
   B.   Ticket Required: The pawnbroker shall give without charge to the person
leaving or pledging property a legible ticket containing a true copy of all
entries made in the register concerning the property left or pledged.
   C.   Inspection Of Register: The register herein required to be kept shall
be subject to the inspection at the time by any police officer of the city, the
sheriff of the county, any deputy sheriff of the county, the city attorney, the
county attorney, the business manager, and any person authorized in writing to
make such inspection by the business manager or the chief of police. Upon
request, the pawnbroker shall show to such officer or person for inspection any
article or articles purchased, taken or received unless such article or
articles have already been legally disposed of. (1989 Code § 9-201)
3-1A-2: FORTUNETELLING; FEES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person or persons pretending or professing to tell
fortunes by the use of any subtle craft, means or device whatsoever, either by
palmistry, clairvoyancy or otherwise, plying his or her trade, art or
profession within the city, to make any charge therefor either directly or
indirectly or to receive any gift, donation or subscription by any means
whatsoever for the same. (1989 Code § 9-202)
3-1A-3: SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, or offer for sale,
any food, fuel, clothing, or any other commodity which does not weigh or
measure fully as much, according to standard weights or measures of the state,
as the weight or measure for which it is sold or offered for sale. (1989 Code §
9-203)
3-1A-4: CONSENT REQUIRED FOR SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ON OR IN VACANT
PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, including a civic or
religious organization, to sell, barter, trade or transfer any merchandise,
wearing apparel or other personal property of any kind on or in any vacant
property in the city without the consent of the owner or person in control of
the property. (1989 Code § 9-204)
3-1A-5: AUCTIONS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to hold any public or private auction for sale of
property on any of the streets or sidewalks of the city. This section shall not
apply to the sale of property under any lien, execution or order of any court
of the state or of the United States of America. (1989 Code § 9-205)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
ARTICLE A.  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Purposes Of Article
3-2A-2: Terms And Phrases
3-2A-3: Occupation Tax
3-2A-4: When Due And Posting
3-2A-5: Payment Required
3-2A-6: Civil Penalty
3-2A-7: Application For Certificate, Investigations
3-2A-8: Issuance Of Certificate Of Zoning And Certificate Of Compliance
3-2A-9: Condition Of Sale
3-2A-10: Prohibited Acts And Activities
3-2A-11: Penalty
3-2A-1: PURPOSES OF ARTICLE:
This article is enacted as an exercise of the police power of the city to
preserve the public peace, safety, health and good order thereof, and to aid
the enforcement of the policy of the state as established by the Oklahoma
alcoholic beverage control act, 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 501 et seq., and
to establish annual occupation taxes upon all persons engaged in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages. (1989 Code § 3-101)
3-2A-2: TERMS AND PHRASES:
For the purpose of this article, all of the terms and phrases used in this
article shall be given the same use and meaning as defined by the Oklahoma
alcoholic beverage control act.
MINOR: A person who, in accordance with state law, has not yet attained the age
at which consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted.
STATE LICENSEE: Any person who holds a license issued under authority of the
Oklahoma alcoholic beverage control act. (1989 Code § 3-102)
3-2A-3: OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Levied: There is hereby levied an annual tax in such amounts as
established by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Reduction; Prorating: The occupation taxes prescribed shall be reduced
or prorated to the extent necessary to conform to applicable laws respecting
the applicants or holders of state licenses.
   C.   Exempt Service Organizations: The license fee for those service
organizations which are exempt under section 501(c)(19) of the internal revenue
code for mixed beverage or bottle club licenses shall be in such amounts as
established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 606, 2-22-1990; amd. 2002
Code)
3-2A-4: WHEN DUE AND POSTING:
   A.   Due; State License Required: Any state licensee originally entering
upon any occupation herein listed shall pay the tax therefor at the office of
the city clerk on or before the date upon which he enters upon such occupation.
The licensee shall provide a copy of his current state license before payment
of an occupation tax will be accepted. All occupation taxes are payable
annually before July 1 and shall expire on June 30 of each year. The occupation
tax shall be prorated monthly for the year in which an occupation begins
operation.
   B.   Multiple Locations: Any state licensee carrying on his occupation in
more than one location within the city limits shall be subject to the tax set
out for each such location.
   C.   Receipt; Posting; Records Retention: Upon payment of the occupation tax
as set out, the city clerk shall issue a receipt to the state licensee, which
licensee shall post in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he carries
on his occupation. The city clerk shall also record the name of such licensee
and the address where he engages in his occupation, and such records shall be
duly filed and kept in the permanent files of that office for at least three
(3) years. Thereafter, upon approval of the governing body, the records may be
destroyed.
   D.   Annual Report To ABLE Commission: The city clerk shall make and
transmit to the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage laws enforcement (ABLE) commission
an annual report covering the fiscal year showing the number and class of
businesses upon which occupation taxes were levied, and the amount of money
collected from such taxes. (1989 Code § 3-104)
3-2A-5: PAYMENT REQUIRED:
Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by this article without
first paying the occupation tax imposed therefor in advance of such operation
is guilty of an offense against the city, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. A penalty in the form of increased tax may be levied upon
any person not paying the tax within fifteen (15) days after it is due. (1989
Code § 3-105)
3-2A-6: CIVIL PENALTY:
All sums due from any person, firm or corporation by reason of occupation taxes
imposed by this article shall be recoverable by the suit of the city brought
against such person in any court of competent jurisdiction. In such suit, in
addition to the tax, the city shall be allowed to recover interest at the
maximum allowable rate permitted by state law upon all sums due by way of tax,
from the date of accrual thereof, any penalty, and all costs of collection,
judicial or otherwise, including reasonable attorney fees. Prosecution for an
offense against the city arising out of the failure to pay a tax levied by this
article, regardless of the outcome or its continued pendency, shall not
constitute a defense or a bar in any manner to the collection of any tax and
penalties, if any are due, as herein provided. (1989 Code § 3-106)
3-2A-7: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE, INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Certificate Of Compliance: Every applicant for a certificate of
compliance with the zoning, fire, health and safety codes of the city required
by 37 Oklahoma Statutes shall apply at the office of the city clerk by:
      1.   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office; and
      2.   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount as set by
the city council at the time of filing.
   B.   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of
compliance, the city shall cause an investigation to be made to determine
whether the premises proposed for licensed operations comply with the
provisions of the zoning ordinance and any health, fire, building and other
safety codes applicable to it.
   C.   Time Limit For Action: The city shall act on all such applications
within twenty (20) days of receipt thereof. (1989 Code § 3-107)
3-2A-8: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF ZONING AND CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Zoning Compliance: Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a
certificate is in compliance with all applicable zoning ordinances, a
certificate of zoning shall be issued to the ABLE commission.
   B.   Fire, Safety And Health Codes: Upon finding that the premises of an
applicant for a certificate is in compliance with all applicable fire, safety,
and health codes, a certificate of compliance shall be issued to the ABLE
commission.
   C.   Signature Of Mayor: The above certificates of compliance shall be
signed by the mayor or by the city clerk. (1989 Code § 3-108)
3-2A-9: CONDITION OF SALE:
   A.   Specified: No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages out of
any retail alcoholic beverage store other than:
      1.   In retail containers;
      2.   At ordinary room temperatures;
      3.   In the original package; and
      4.   For consumption off the premises.
   B.   Consumption Or Opening On Premises: No person owning, employed in, or
in any manner assisting in the maintenance and operation of such a store, shall
suffer or permit any alcoholic beverage to be consumed, or any retail container
of such beverage to be opened, on the premises of such a store. (1989 Code § 3-
109)
3-2A-10: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Consumption In Specific Places: No person shall drink or consume in any
manner any alcoholic beverage on the premises of a retail alcoholic beverage
package store, nor in any other public place. Neither shall a person open or
break the seal of any original package or retail container containing alcoholic
beverages on the premises of any such retail beverage store. (1989 Code § 3-
110)
   B.   Sales And Deliveries: No person shall sell at retail or otherwise, and
no person shall deliver, in consequence of or in completion of such a sale, any
alcoholic beverages at any place in the city except at a retail alcoholic
beverage store in strict conformity with this article and the laws of the
state. (1989 Code § 3-111)
   C.   Unauthorized Location: No retail alcoholic beverage package store, no
bottle club, and no wholesale alcoholic beverage store, warehouse, brewery,
distillery, winery or any other place, however described, and for the
manufacture or production or bottling of alcoholic beverages of any kind, shall
be located, maintained or operated by any person, at any place within the
boundaries of the city, except at a location at which such an establishment is
permitted or authorized by the zoning ordinances of the city. No person shall
own, operate, maintain or be interested in any retail alcoholic beverage store
which is located at a place within the city limits which is in violation of or
forbidden as a location by the city or under the laws of the state. (1989 Code
§ 3-112)
   D.   Distance To Church Or Public School 1 : The location of a retail
package store, mixed beverage establishment or bottle club is specifically
prohibited within three hundred feet (300') from any church property primarily
and regularly used for worship services and religious activities, or public
school. If any such church or school shall be established within three hundred
feet (300') of any licensed premises after such premises have been licensed,
this shall not be a bar to the renewal of such license so long as it has been
in continuous force and effect. The distance indicated in this subsection shall
be measured from the nearest property line of such church or school to the
nearest public entrance door of the premises of such package store, mixed
beverage establishment or bottle club along the street right-of- way line
providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between such
points. For purposes of determining measured distance, property situated on the
opposite side of the street from such church or school shall be considered as
if it were located on the same side of the street with such church or school.
(1989 Code § 3-113)
   E.   Minors: No person shall knowingly sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic
beverages at any place within the city limits to any person who is a minor.
Neither shall any minor misrepresent his age verbally or in writing, or present
false documentation of age or otherwise for the purpose of inducing any other
person to sell him alcoholic beverages.
   F.   Sales To Specific Persons: No person shall sell, deliver or knowingly
furnish alcoholic beverage or beverages within the city to an intoxicated
person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally deficient.
(1989 Code § 3-114)
   G.   Transporting Beverages: It is unlawful to transport any alcoholic
beverage, unless the same is:
      1.   In an unopened original container with seal unbroken, and the
original cap or cork not removed from the container; or
      2.   In the trunk or other closed compartment or container out of public
view and out of reach of and not accessible to the driver or any occupant of a
vehicle. (1989 Code § 3-115)
   H.   Employment Of Minors: No minor shall be employed in the selling,
manufacture, distribution or other handling of alcoholic beverages at any place
within the city. No person shall employ or assist or aid in causing the
employment of any minor at any place within the city in the selling,
manufacture, distribution or other handling of alcoholic beverages. No minor
shall be permitted to remain within or to loiter about the premises of a retail
alcoholic beverage store. Violation of this provision shall subject the owner
or proprietor, as well as the underage person, to prosecution. (1989 Code § 3-
116)
   I.   Dates, Hours Of Sale:
      1.   No person shall open for business or keep open for business or sell
or deliver alcoholic beverages, as defined herein, to any person at a retail
alcoholic beverage store in the city on any Sunday, New Year's Day, Memorial
Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas
Day, or while the polls are open on the day of any general, primary, runoff
primary or special election, whether national, state, county or city, or any
other day except between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M.
      2.   No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no officer, agent or
employee of such a dealer, shall sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic
beverage store within the city any amount of spirits or wines on Saturday or
Sunday of any week, on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor
Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, or while the polls are
open on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary or special election,
whether national, state, county or city. (1989 Code § 3-117)
   J.   Drinking And Intoxication In Public Place: No persons shall drink
intoxicating liquor in any public place, nor shall any person be intoxicated in
a public place within this city. (1989 Code § 3-118)
   K.   Intoxicated Persons In Cafe, Club: No person operating a cafe,
restaurant, club, or any place of recreation, within this city, and no employee
engaged in connection with the operation of such a cafe, restaurant, club or
place of recreation, shall permit any person to be drunk or intoxicated in the
place of business. (1989 Code § 3-119)
 
Notes
1 1. 37 O.S. § 518.2.
3-2A-11: PENALTY:
Any and each violation of any of the provisions of this article is an offense
against the city, and upon conviction of such an offense, the violator shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 3-120)
ARTICLE B.  LOW-POINT BEER
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Definitions
3-2B-2: License Required; Term
3-2B-3: Fee For License
3-2B-4: Prohibited Acts And Activities
3-2B-5: Penalty
3-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
In the administration of this article, the following words and phrases are
given the meanings respectively indicated:
LOW-POINT BEER: All beverages containing more than one-half of one percent
(0.5%) alcohol by volume and less than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%)
alcohol by weight.
MINOR: A person who, according to state law, has not yet attained the age at
which consumption of low-point beer is permitted under state law.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate location or service unit in which or from
which low-point beer is sold, delivered or otherwise furnished.
RETAIL DEALER: Means and includes any person who sells any "low- point beer" as
defined herein, for consumption or use and not for resale. (1989 Code § 3-201;
amd. 2002 Code)
3-2B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; TERM:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to sell, distribute or
dispense within the city any low-point beer to the public for consumption or
use without first having obtained a license therefor from the city clerk. Every
person desiring to engage in business as a retail dealer in low-point beer or
to continue in the business within the city shall make application to the city
clerk on forms to be provided, setting forth the location of the business,
together with the applicant's address and, if a corporation, the name of the
president and managing officer. The application shall show the date and permit
number of the permits issued by the district court judge and the Oklahoma tax
commission as required by law. (1989 Code § 3-204; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Upon a showing that the applicant has obtained his permits from the
district court judge and the Oklahoma tax commission and after payment of the
license fee to the city, such license shall be issued forthwith. All licenses
shall expire on June 30 of each year. Licenses issued hereunder shall not be
assignable or transferable, and the fee shall not be prorated for part of the
year. The city license shall be displayed in the licensee's place of business.
The license may be cancelled for any violation of the laws of the state for
which the licensee's county or state license may be cancelled, and in a similar
manner. (1989 Code § 3-204)
3-2B-3: FEE FOR LICENSE 1 :
There is hereby levied on each retail dealer in low-point beer within the city
selling such beverages for consumption on or off the premises of the dealer's
place of business, a license fee, per annum, in such amount as established by
resolution of the city council, and on each retail dealer selling such
beverages exclusively in original packages (of not less than case lots) and not
for consumption on his premises, a license fee, per annum, in such amount as
established by resolution of the city council. A separate license fee shall be
paid for each "place of business", as herein defined, operated and conducted by
the retail dealer. (1989 Code § 3-203; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 37 O.S. § 163.10.
3-2B-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Hours Of Sale 1 : It is unlawful for any owner, firm, person, operator,
corporation, proprietor or manager of any beer tavern, beer garden, beer hall,
tap room, or any other premises or place in which the principal business is
that of selling low-point beer for consumption on the premises, to barter,
sell, dispense or otherwise furnish low-point beer for consumption on the
premises of his place of business:
      1.   Between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. on any day except Sunday;
      2.   Between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. Sunday and twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on Sunday. (1989 Code § 3-202; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Minors 2 :
      1.   Sales: It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer, give away,
procure for, barter or otherwise dispense to any minor any low-point beer, or
for any minor to purchase, receive, or procure any low-point beer. (1989 Code §
3-205; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Possession:
         a.   "Possession" under the terms of this article shall consist of
actual physical possession or control.
         b.   It is unlawful for a minor to be in possession of any low- point
beer while such person is upon any public street, avenue, alley, road, highway
or public building or place. (1989 Code § 3-206; amd. 2002 Code)
      3.   Employment 3 :
         a.   It is unlawful for any owner, manager, operator or employee of a
place where low-point beer is sold for consumption on the premises to employ a
person under eighteen (18) years of age to work in such place; or for any
person under eighteen (18) years of age to work in such place. This subsection
B3 shall not apply to any licensed premises where sales of low-point beer do
not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the gross sales of the licensee.
         b.   It is unlawful for any minor to be employed or permitted to work
in any capacity whatsoever in the separate or enclosed bar area of a place
where the main purpose of the area is the sale or consumption of low-point
beer. This subsection B3 shall not apply to any area which has as its main
purpose some objective other than the sale or serving of low-point beer, in
which sales or serving of low-point beer are incidental to the main purpose.
(1989 Code § 3-207; amd. 2002 Code)
      4.   Frequenting Bars; Exceptions:
         a.   The owner of any bar, beer hall, tavern, or other place wherein
any low-point beer is dispensed for consumption on the premises, shall not
permit any minor to be admitted to, enter or to remain in a separate enclosed
bar area of the licensed premises which has as its main purpose the selling or
serving of low-point beer for consumption on the premises unless the person's
legal guardian or parent is present, nor shall any minor enter or remain about
such separate or enclosed bar area.
         b.   This subsection B4 shall not prohibit minors from being admitted
to, entering or remaining in an area which has as its main purpose some
objective other than the sale or serving of low-point beer in which sales or
serving of low-point beer are incidental to the main purpose, if the minors are
not sold or served or do not consume low-point beer. (1989 Code § 3-208; amd.
2002 Code)
   C.   Transportation: It is unlawful for any person knowingly to transport in
any moving vehicle upon a public street or alley, or any public way within this
city, any low-point beer unless it is:
      1.   In the original container which shall not have been opened and from
which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed; or
      2.   If it is in an opened container, the opened container is in the rear
trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a
station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or to any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion. (1989 Code § 3-209; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Location 4 : It is unlawful for any place licensed to sell low- point
beer for on-premises consumption to be located within three hundred feet (300')
from any public school or church property primarily and regularly used for
worship services and religious activities. If any public school or church shall
be established within three hundred feet (300') of any place which sells low-
point beer for on-premises consumption after such place has been licensed, this
shall not be a deterrent to the renewal of such license so long as there has
not been a lapse of more than sixty (60) days. The distance indicated in this
subsection shall be measured from the nearest property line of such public
school or church to the nearest public entrance door of the premises of any
place licensed to sell such low-point beer for on-premises consumption along
the street right-of-way line providing the nearest direct route usually
traveled by pedestrians between such points. For purposes of determining
measured distance, property situated on the opposite side of the street from
such public school or church shall be considered as if it were located on the
same side of the street with the school or church. The above restrictions shall
not affect premises already licensed as of the initial effective date of this
subsection to sell low-point beer for on-premises consumption or premises which
may presently or in the future be licensed to sell low-point beer for on-
premises consumption even though a school or church is subsequently established
within three hundred feet (300') of such licensed premises. (1989 Code § 3-210;
amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 37 O.S. § 213.
2 3. 37 O.S. § 241.
3 1. 37 O.S. § 243.
4 1. 37 O.S. § 163.24.
3-2B-5: PENALTY:
Any and each violation of any of the provisions of this article is an offense
against the city, and upon conviction of such an offense, the violator shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 3-211)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A.  SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Citation
3-3A-2: Definitions
3-3A-3: Taxes Imposed; Rates; Effective Dates
3-3A-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-3A-5: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-3A-6: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
3-3A-7: Tax Due Date
3-3A-8: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
3-3A-9: Collection By Vendors
3-3A-10: Returns, Remittances And Discounts
3-3A-11: Delinquencies; Interest And Penalties
3-3A-12: Fraudulent Returns
3-3A-13: Enforcement Of Payment
3-3A-14: Refund Of Erroneous Payments
3-3A-15: Records Confidential
3-3A-16: Amendments
3-3A-17: Provisions Cumulative
3-3A-1: CITATION:
This article shall be known and may be cited as CITY OF SAYRE SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (2002 Code)
3-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the state sales tax
code are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
STATE SALES TAX CODE: Reference to the "state sales tax code" shall mean such
code as set out in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1350 et seq., as amended.
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the city or the official agency of the state
duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law or contract to
administer the collection of the tax levied by this article. (2002 Code)
3-3A-3: TAXES IMPOSED; RATES; EFFECTIVE DATES:
The following city sales taxes shall be imposed and effective as indicated,
unless otherwise extended by a vote of the people. Said taxes have been
approved by a majority of the registered voters of the city voting on same in
elections conducted in the manner prescribed by Oklahoma Statutes: (Ord. 568,
6-20-1983, eff. 6-20-1983; amd. Ord. 582, 2-18-1986, eff. 2-18-1986; Ord. 729,
6-20-2006)
Ordinance 568 levied a three percent (3%) tax, effective June 20, 1983.
Ordinance 582 levied a three percent (3%) tax, effective February 18, 1986.
Ordinance 729 levied a one percent (1%) tax, effective January 1, 2007.
3-3A-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purposes of
this article, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose. (2002 Code)
3-3A-5: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the state sales tax code.
(2002 Code)
3-3A-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
The city sales taxes shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds
of such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from such taxes
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (2002 Code)
3-3A-7: TAX DUE DATE:
The tax levied under the provisions of this article shall be due and payable at
the time and in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales
tax under the state sales tax law. (2002 Code)
3-3A-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the state tax commission at the
time and in form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the
state sales tax law.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the
state tax commission shall be as the same is hereafter adopted by the agreement
of the city and the state tax commission, in the collection of both the city
sales tax and the state sales tax. (2002 Code)
3-3A-9: COLLECTION BY VENDORS:
   A.   The tax levied under the provision of this article shall be paid by the
consumer or user to the vendor and it shall be the duty of each and every
vendor in the city to collect from the consumer or user, the full amount of the
tax levied by this article, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or
practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed under this article, or the average
equivalent thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner
as other debts.
   C.   A vendor who wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to
collect the full amount of the tax levied hereof, or wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions or remits or rebates
to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever means,
all or any part of the tax herein levied, or makes in any form of advertising,
verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he is absorbing the tax,
or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a
price including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2002 Code)
3-3A-10: RETURNS, REMITTANCES AND DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax levied and collected under the provisions of
this article shall be made to the state tax commission at the time and in the
manner, form and amount as prescribed for returns and remittances required by
the state sales tax code; and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by said code for collection of
state sales taxes. (2002 Code)
3-3A-11: DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure To Pay Tax: Section 217 of title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, and
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted and made a part of this article and
interest or penalties at the rate and in the amount as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied under this article; provided, that the failure or refusal
of any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the
time and manner required by this article shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
   B.   Waiver: The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by
reason of a taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax as levied under this article
may be waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or
remittance as applied in administration of the state sales tax provided in 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and amendments thereto; and to accomplish the
purposes of this section the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article. (2002 Code)
3-3A-12: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties which may be imposed for the violation of
this article, the wilful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this article shall be an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, the offending taxpayer shall be subject to punishment as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2002 Code)
3-3A-13: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Taxes, penalty and interest due under the provision of this article shall at
all times constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the
claims of unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(2002 Code)
3-3A-14: REFUND OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax levied under the provisions
of this article may be made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in
the same manner and procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as
provided for administration of the state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 227, and amendments thereto, and to accomplish the purposes of
this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this article. (2002 Code)
3-3A-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205, and
amendments thereto, of the state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof,
is hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to
administration of the city sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (2002
Code)
3-3A-16: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city, by their approval of the ordinances from which this
article was derived at the elections provided for in section
3-3A-3 of this article, hereby authorize the city council, by ordinances duly
enacted to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the
method and manner of administration and enforcing this article as may be
necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness except that the rate of the tax
herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors
of the city as provided by law. (2002 Code)
3-3A-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this article shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and
all taxing provisions of this code or city ordinances. (2002 Code)
ARTICLE B.  TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Imposed
3-3B-2: In Lieu Of Other Taxes And Assessments
3-3B-1: IMPOSED:
There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm or corporation operating a telephone exchange in this
city in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each
current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within
the limits of the city, to compensate the city for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulation and police control of the construction of lines and equipment
of the telephone company in the city. The inspection fee and charge shall be
due and payable to the city on or before May 1 of each year and shall be paid
into and appropriated and expended from the general revenue fund of the city.
(1989 Code § 7-301)
3-3B-2: IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS:
During continued substantial compliance with the terms of this article by the
owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and continue
to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes;
provided, however, that it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any
existing arrangement whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduit,
duct space or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police call
systems of the city. (1989 Code § 7-302)
ARTICLE C.  EXCISE TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Tax Collector Designated
3-3C-3: Classification Of Taxpayers
3-3C-4: Subsisting State Permits
3-3C-5: Purpose Of Revenues
3-3C-6: Sales Subject To Tax
3-3C-7: Exemptions
3-3C-8: Time When Due; Returns; Payments
3-3C-9: Tax Constitutes Debt
3-3C-10: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor
3-3C-11: Revocation Of Permit
3-3C-12: Remunerative Deductions Allowed Retailers Or Vendors Of Other States
3-3C-13: Interest And Penalties
3-3C-14: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
3-3C-15: Fraudulent Returns
3-3C-16: Records Confidential
3-3C-17: Provisions Cumulative
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, as amended, are hereby adopted by
reference. In addition thereto, the following words and terms shall be defined
as follows:
CITY: The city of Sayre, Oklahoma.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-2: TAX COLLECTOR DESIGNATED:
The term "tax collector", as used herein, means the department of the municipal
government or the official agency of the state, duly designated according to
law or contract authorized by law, to administer the collection of tax herein
levied. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-3: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(Ord. 625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-4: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are hereby ratified, confirmed
and adopted in lieu of any requirement for additional municipal permits for the
same purpose. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-5: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the municipality,
and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing
body for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized.
(Ord. 625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-6: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the municipality, tangible, personal property
purchased and brought into this municipality, an excise tax on the storage, use
or other consuming within the municipality of such property at the rate of
three percent (3%) of the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be
paid by every person storing, using or otherwise consuming within the
municipality, tangible, personal property purchased or brought into the
municipality. The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property within the municipality and shall be
assessed to only property purchased outside the state; provided, that the tax
levied herein shall not be levied against tangible, personal property intended
solely for use outside the municipality, but which is stored in the
municipality pending shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily
retained in the municipality for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other services. Any person liable for payment of the
tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the municipality had been levied on the sale of such goods or services. (Ord.
625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-7: EXEMPTIONS:
Exemptions from such taxes shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. The
provisions of this article shall not apply:
   A.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by a nonresident individual visiting in this
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality.
   B.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used.
   C.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma use tax
code and the city use tax ordinance, has been paid by the persons using such
tangible, personal property in the municipality, whether such tax was levied
under the laws of the state or some other state or municipality of the United
States. If any article of tangible, personal property has already been
subjected to a tax by the state or any other state or municipality in respect
to its sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma
use tax code and the city use tax ordinance, the provisions of this article
shall also apply to it by a rate measured by the difference only between the
rate provided by both the Oklahoma use tax code and the city use tax ordinance,
and the rate by which the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed;
provided, that no credit shall be given for taxes paid in another state or
municipality, if that state or municipality does not grant like credit for
taxes paid in the state and the municipality. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992; amd. 2002
Code)
   D.   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants within the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the
operation of manufacturing plants already established within the municipality;
provided, this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment
are incorporated into, and are directly used in, the process of manufacturing
property subject to taxation under the sales tax code of the municipality. The
term "manufacturing plants" shall mean those establishments primarily engaged
in manufacturing or processing operations, and are generally recognized as
such.
   E.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property now
specifically exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the city.
   F.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of the municipality where such personal property is for the individual's
personal use or enjoyment.
   G.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property used
or to be used by commercial airliners or railroads.
   H.   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought in the
municipality for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold. (Ord.
625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-8: TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENTS:
The tax levied by this article is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-9: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (Ord. 625, 11-17-
1992)
3-3C-10: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR:
   A.   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the state and making sales of tangible, personal property from a place
of business outside the state for use in this municipality shall at the time of
making such sales collect the use tax levied from the purchaser and give to the
purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by the tax
commission, if the tax commission shall, by regulation, require such receipt.
Each retailer or vendor shall list with the tax commission the name and address
of all his agents operating in this municipality and the location of any and
all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of business within
this municipality.
   B.   The tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize
the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible, personal property for use in this municipality and by the out-of-
state place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and without this state and making sales of tangible,
personal property at such out-of-state place of business for use in this
municipality. Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit
to collect such taxes, by the tax commission, in such manner and subject to
such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it
shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all
tangible, personal property sold to his knowledge for use within this
municipality. Such authority and permit may be cancelled when at any time the
tax commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected from
the person using such property in this municipality; provided, however, that in
all instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the
purchaser within this municipality by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's
or vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such
sales or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable municipal
sales tax at the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported
under taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992;
amd. 2002 Code)
3-3C-11: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any provisions of this article or the
Oklahoma use tax code or any orders, rules or regulations of the tax
commission, the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing as provided, cancel said corporation's license to do business in this
state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this ordinance, the Oklahoma use tax code, or any
orders, rules and regulations of the tax commission. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992;
amd. 2002 Code)
3-3C-12: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED RETAILERS OR VENDORS OF OTHER STATES:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax commission at the time and in the manner, form, and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances as required by the Oklahoma use tax
code; and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state use taxes.
(Ord. 625, 11-17-1992; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3C-13: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Delinquency: 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amount as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied; provided, that the failure or refusal of any retailer or
vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and
manner required shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor
shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this article.
   B.   Waiver Of Interest And Penalties: The interest or penalty or any
portion thereof accruing by reason of a retailer's or vendor's failure to pay
the municipality tax herein levied may be waived or remitted in the same manner
as provided for said waiver or remittance as applied in administration of the
state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220, and to accomplish
the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 220 are
hereby adopted by reference. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-14: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund for erroneous payments of the municipal use tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration
of the Oklahoma state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227,
and to accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of
said section 227 are hereby adopted by reference. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-15: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this article, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false or fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due shall be an
offense, and upon conviction thereof the offending taxpayer shall be punished
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3C-16: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileges nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the municipal use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to the administration of the municipal use
tax as is herein set forth in full. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992)
3-3C-17: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the municipal ordinances. (Ord. 625, 11-17-1992)
ARTICLE D.  EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE TAX
SECTION:
3-3D-1: Imposed
3-3D-2: Term
3-3D-1: IMPOSED:
The city hereby provides for the operation of an emergency telephone service,
through the levy of an emergency telephone service tax or service fee. Said tax
or service fee is hereby levied pursuant to the nine-one-one (
9-1-1) emergency number act, 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2811 et seq., and
specifically section 2814 thereof, for a period not to exceed three (3) years
from the date of the initial collection thereof, and in an amount not to exceed
five percent (5%) during the first year of the tax, and not to exceed three
percent (3%) in any year thereafter, of the applicable telephone tariff rate.
(Ord. 621, 10-22-1991)
3-3D-2: TERM:
Collection of the emergency telephone service tax shall begin sixty (60) days
after publication of this article and shall continue for a period of not to
exceed three (3) years after which the city council may renew the levy of such
tax for consecutive periods of not to exceed three (3) years. (Ord. 621, 10-22-
1991)
ARTICLE E.  UTILITY FEE
SECTION:
3-3E-1: Levied
3-3E-2: Applicability
3-3E-3: Payment Of Fee
3-3E-4: Failure To Pay
3-3E-5: Fee Constitutes Lien
3-3E-6: Revocable Permit To Use Public Ways
3-3E-7: Record Of Sales
3-3E-1: LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual utility fee of two percent (2%)
upon the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of power, light,
heat, gas and electricity within the city, which fee shall be in lieu of any
other franchise, license, occupation or excise fees or tax, in accordance with
the provision of 68 Oklahoma Statutes sections 2601 through 2605, as amended
and supplemented, and other applicable provision of state law. Said fee is
levied against and shall be paid by all persons, firms, associations or
corporations engaged in the business of furnishing power, light, heat, gas or
electricity within the city limits, except the Sayre industrial authority or
the public works authority. The said fee levied covers the reasonable direct
and indirect costs to the city of providing and maintaining the public rights
of way and other public property used by utility providers. (Ord. 674, 9-15-
1998)
3-3E-2: APPLICABILITY:
The fee levied under this article shall, when levied, apply to all persons,
firms, associations or corporations engaged in the business of furnishing
power, light, heat, gas or electricity within the city limits, except the Sayre
industrial authority or the public works authority; provided, it shall not
apply to any person, firm, association or corporation operating under a valid
franchise from the city granted pursuant to the Oklahoma constitution, article
18, section 5(a), nor shall it apply to those entities exempt from such fee
under any applicable provision of state law. (Ord. 674, 9-15-1998)
3-3E-3: PAYMENT OF FEE:
The fee levied under this article shall be payable monthly on or prior to the
tenth day of the month for the preceding month's receipts and the proceeds
thereof shall be placed in the general revenue fund of the city. (Ord. 674, 9-
15-1998)
3-3E-4: FAILURE TO PAY:
Any person, firm, association or corporation failing or refusing to pay such
fee when levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such
city and, in addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person,
firm, association or corporation for the amount of the fee and all expenses of
collecting the same, including reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 674, 9-15-1998)
3-3E-5: FEE CONSTITUTES LIEN:
The fee so imposed shall constitute to a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the city of any person, firm, association or corporation engaged
in the business of selling utility services within the municipal limits of the
city. (Ord. 674, 9-15-1998)
3-3E-6: REVOCABLE PERMIT TO USE PUBLIC WAYS:
Any persons, firms, associations or corporations engaged in the business of
furnishing utilities within the city not operating under a valid franchise from
said city, and upon whom the fee provided under section
3-3E-1 of this article is imposed, is hereby granted a revocable permit by the
city, for so long as this article remains in effect and the fees are paid in
accordance with the terms of this article to acquire, construct, erect,
install, extend, repair, remove, replace, relocate, operate and maintain a
system of works, upon and under the streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards,
lanes, parks, parkways, sidewalks, parkings, driveways, rights of way, utility
easements and other public ways, places, areas and grounds. (Ord. 674, 9-15-
1998)
3-3E-7: RECORD OF SALES:
It shall be the duty of any person, firm, association or corporation subject to
the fee levied hereunder to keep and maintain records as to the amount of gross
receipts of sales of power, light, heat, gas electricity or water within the
city, and such records shall be subject to review and audit by the city upon
reasonable request. In addition, a summary of such sales for the preceding
calendar month, including the number of customers that are exempt from fees
under applicable state law, the number of units of gas or electricity (cubic
feet, kilowatt hours or gallons, respectively) sold to exempt and nonexempt
customers, the gross receipts from sales to exempt and nonexempt customers, and
the amount of the fee herein based on such sales shall be provided to the city
at the time of payments of the tax pursuant to section
3-3E-3 of this article. (Ord. 674, 9-15-1998)
ARTICLE F.  HOTEL TAX
SECTION:
3-3F-1: Citation And Codification
3-3F-2: Definitions
3-3F-3: Tax Rate
3-3F-4: Exemptions
3-3F-5: Tax To Be Separately Designated On Bills
3-3F-6: Operator Responsible For Collection
3-3F-7: Records To Be Kept
3-3F-8: Returns
3-3F-9: Payment Of Tax
3-3F-10: Bond Required
3-3F-11: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
3-3F-12: Refunds
3-3F-13: Notice
3-3F-14: Remedies Exclusive
3-3F-15: General Powers Of Director
3-3F-16: Administration Of Oaths And Compelling Testimony
3-3F-17: Certificates Of Registration
3-3F-18: Delinquent Taxes
3-3F-19: Interest And Penalties
3-3F-20: Use Of Funds
3-3F-21: Records Confidential
3-3F-22: Fraudulent Returns
3-3F-23: Amendments
3-3F-24: Provisions Cumulative
3-3F-25: Collection Fee
3-3F-1: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This article shall be known and may be cited as SAYRE HOTEL ROOM TAX ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
DIRECTOR: The city manager of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, or a duly authorized
agent of the said city manager.
HOTEL: Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other facility in
which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations in
which three (3) or more rooms are used for the accommodation of such "guests"
whether such rooms are in one or several structures. The term shall include
hotels, apartments, motels, tourist homes, bed and breakfast inns, houses or
courts, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, trailer motels,
dormitory space where bed space is rented to individuals or groups, apartments
not occupied by "permanent residents", and all other facilities where rooms or
sleeping facilities or spaces are furnished for a consideration. The term shall
not include hospitals, sanatoriums or nursing homes.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession or the right to the use or possession of any
room or rooms in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the
furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and
possession of the room or rooms.
OCCUPANT: A person, who for a consideration, uses, possesses or has all the
right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel, under any
lease, concession, permit, right to access, license to use, or other agreement.
OPERATOR: A person or legal entity operating a hotel in this city, included,
but not limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in
possession, court appointed receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, licensee, or any
other person otherwise operating such hotel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any occupant who, during the current term of occupancy,
occupies or has the right of occupancy of any room or rooms in a hotel for
thirty (30) or more consecutive days.
RENT: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
RETURN: Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided, or as
required by law or regulation of the Oklahoma tax commission.
ROOM: Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which is
available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. As used herein, "place of assembly" means a room or space
which is legally capable under the code of the city of Sayre of being occupied
by seventy five (75) or more persons and which is used for educational,
recreational or amusement purposes and shall include: dance halls; cabarets;
nightclubs; restaurants; any room or space for public or private banquets,
feasts, social card parties or weddings; lodge and meeting hall, or rooms;
skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming pools; billiard, bowling and table tennis
rooms; halls or rooms used for public or private catering purposes; funeral
parlors; markets; recreational rooms; concert halls; broadcasting studios; and
all other places of similar type of occupancy.
TAX: The tax levied pursuant to this article. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-
15-2009)
3-3F-3: TAX RATE:
Effective October 15, 2009, there is hereby levied an excise of six percent
(6%) upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all rent for every
occupancy of a room or rooms in a hotel in this city except that the tax shall
not be imposed where the rent is less than the rate of three dollars ($3.00)
per day. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following guests shall be exempt from the tax levied in this article:
   A.   Permanent residents as defined in this article;
   B.   Representatives of the United States government or any agency or
division thereof while on official business;
   C.   Representatives of the state of Oklahoma or any political subdivision
thereof while on official business.
Every operator shall document the basis for which exemptions are made pursuant
to this section on a form provided by the director or if no form is provided,
in sufficient detail as to be verified by audit by the director. (Ord. 4-7-09,
9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-5: TAX TO BE SEPARATELY DESIGNATED ON BILLS:
The operator shall separately designate, charge and show the tax on all bills,
statements, receipts, or any other evidence of charges or payment of rent for
occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff.
10-15-2009)
3-3F-6: OPERATOR RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLECTION:
The tax levied by this article shall be paid by the occupant to the operator,
whether person, firm or corporation, as trustee for and on account of the city
of Sayre. Each and every operator, whether person, firm or corporation, in this
city shall collect from the occupant a full amount of the tax levied by this
article. Every person required to collect any tax imposed by this article, and
in case of a corporation, each principal officer thereof, shall be personally
liable for said tax. The operator shall report the same to the director on
required forms or returns. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-7: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in such form as the
director may by regulations require. Such records shall be available for
inspection and examination at any time upon demand by the director, or a duly
authorized agent or employee of the city, and shall be preserved for a period
of not less than three (3) years. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-8: RETURNS:
   A.   Every operator shall file with the director a return of occupancy and
of rents and of the taxes payable thereon within thirty (30) days from the
periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year
from the effective date of this article. If the said payment date falls on a
date which the office of the city clerk is closed, the payment period shall run
to the next regular business day the office of the city clerk is open for
business.
   B.   The director may permit or require returns to be made by shorter or
longer periods and upon such dates as he or she may specify. The form of return
shall be prescribed by the director and shall contain such information as he or
she may deem necessary for the proper administration of this article. The
director may require amended returns to be filed within twenty (20) days after
notice and to contain the information specified in the notice. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-
15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-9: PAYMENT OF TAX:
At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator shall
pay to the director the taxes imposed by this article upon the rents included
in such return, as well as all other monies collected by the operator acting or
purporting the act under the provisions of this article. All the taxes for the
period for which a return is required to be filed shall be due from the
operator and payable to the director on or before the date fixed for the filing
of the return for such period without regard to whether a return is filed or
whether the return which is filed correctly shows the amount of rent and taxes
due thereon. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-10: BOND REQUIRED:
When the director believes that any operator is about to cease business, leave
the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other similar reason the
director deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under this article,
the director may require such operator to file with the city a bond issued by a
surety company authorized to transact business in this state in such amount as
the director may fix to secure payment of any tax or penalties and interest
due, or which may become due from such operator. In the event that the director
determines that an operator is to file such bond, notice shall be given to such
operator specifying the amount of bond required. The operator shall file such
bond within five (5) days after the delivery or mailing of such notice unless
within such five (5) days the operator shall request in writing a hearing
before the city council or its designee, at which time the propriety and amount
of the bond shall be determined by the city council or its designee. Such
determination shall be final and shall be complied with within fifteen (15)
days thereafter. In lieu of such bond, securities approved by the director, or
cash in such amount as the director may prescribe, may be deposited with the
director. The director may at any time after five (5) days' notice to the
operator, apply the bond, cash or other security to any tax and/or any
penalties due and for that purpose the securities may be sold at private or
public sale. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-11: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
If a return required by this article is not filed, or if a return when filed is
incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the
director from such information as may be obtained and, if necessary, the tax
may be estimated on the basis of external indices, such as number of rooms,
location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and
services, number of employees, or other factors. Written notice of such
assessment shall be given to the person liable for the collection and payment
of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and irrevocably fix and determine the
tax unless the person or entity against whom it is assessed, within thirty (30)
days after the giving of notice of such assessment, shall apply in writing to
the city council or its designee for a hearing, or unless the director on his
or her own motion shall reassess the same. After such hearing, the city council
or its designee shall give written notice of its determination to the person or
entity against whom the tax is assessed and such determination shall be final.
(Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-12: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure: The director shall refund or credit any tax erroneously
collected if written application to the director for such refund shall be made
within two (2) years from the date of payment thereof. For like causes, and in
the same period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative and order of the
director. Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in
writing. Such application may also be made by the person who has collected and
paid such tax to the director providing that the application is made within two
(2) years of the payment of the occupant to the operator, but no refund of
money shall be made to the operator until the operator has repaid to the
occupant the amount for which the application for refund is made. The director
in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow credit therefor on payment
due from the applicant.
   B.   Determination And Hearing: Upon application for a refund the director
may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such investigation as
deemed necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the director
shall give notice thereof to the applicant. Such determination shall be final
unless the applicant within ninety (90) days after such notice shall apply in
writing to the city council for a hearing. After such hearing, the city council
shall give written notice of its decision to the applicant. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-
2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-13: NOTICE:
Notices provided under this article shall be deemed to have been given when
such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the
United States mail to the last known address of the operator. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-
15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-14: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this article shall be exclusive remedies available to
any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this article. (Ord. 4-7-
09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-15: GENERAL POWERS OF DIRECTOR:
In addition to all other powers granted to the director, the director is hereby
authorized and empowered:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
carrying out of this article for the purposes thereof;
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing return for a period not
exceeding sixty (60) days; and for cause shown to waive, remit, or reduce
penalties or interest;
   C.   To delegate functions hereunder to an assistant or other employee or
employees of the city;
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes imposed
by this article;
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents.
(Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-16: ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND COMPELLING TESTIMONY:
The director shall have the power to administer oaths, subpoena and require the
attendance of witnesses, the production of books, papers and documents, and
take affidavits in relation to any matter of proceeding in the exercise of the
powers and duties of the director or city council under this article. (Ord. 4-
7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-17: CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION:
Every operator shall file with the director a certificate of registration in a
form prescribed by said director within ten (10) days after the effective date
of this article, or in the case of operators commencing business or opening new
hotels after such effective date, within three (3) days after such commencement
or opening. The director shall within five (5) days after such registration,
issue, without charge, to each operator a certificate of authority empowering
such operator to collect the tax from the occupant and duplicates thereof for
each additional hotel. Each certificate of authority shall be permanently
displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be seen and comes to the
notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such certificates shall
be nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to
the director upon the cessation of business at the hotel named, or upon its
sale or transfer. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-18: DELINQUENT TAXES:
The tax levied by this article shall be due and payable at the time filing of
the returns provided for in this article is required. All taxes not paid within
five (5) business days from the time they become due shall be delinquent. (Ord.
4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-19: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   If any tax levied or assessed by this article becomes delinquent, the
person or entity responsible and liable for such tax shall pay a penalty equal
to ten percent (10%) of the unpaid tax and interest on such unpaid tax and
penalty shall accrue at the rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per month
on the unpaid balance from the date of delinquency.
   B.   The city may bring a civil suit to enforce payment of any past due tax
levied or assessed pursuant to this article in addition to conviction
hereunder. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-20: USE OF FUNDS:
All taxes collected pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be used
for capital and noncapital expenditures through the general funds of the city
of Sayre. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-21: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared, and
to protect the same the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes 1991, section 205 of
the state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof is hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the
Sayre hotel room tax as herein set forth. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-
2009)
3-3F-22: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
The wilful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances
therein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the
purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this article shall be an offense, and upon conviction
thereof the offending taxpayer shall be subject to a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00), including costs; each day is to be considered a
separate offense to be charged severally. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-
2009)
3-3F-23: AMENDMENTS:
The people of Sayre, by their approval of this article at the election herein
provided, hereby authorize the city council by ordinances duly enacted to make
such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner
of administration and enforcing this article as may be necessary or proper for
the efficiency and fairness except that the rate of the tax herein provided
shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the city as
provided by law. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-24: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of city ordinances. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
3-3F-25: COLLECTION FEE:
The city of Sayre is authorized by this article to deduct a sum from this
specially collected tax to be used for the cost of collection and disbursement,
not to exceed three percent (3%) of the total revenue accruing from the tax
over an annual collection period. (Ord. 4-7-09, 9-15-2009, eff. 10-15-2009)
CHAPTER 4
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-4-1: License Required
3-4-2: Application For License; Issuance
3-4-3: Operator Permits Issued
3-4-4: Display Of License
3-4-5: Notice Of Applications
3-4-6: Inspection
3-4-7: Revocation
3-4-8: Appeal From Denial
3-4-9: Penalty
3-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of operating a
motorcar, automobile, auto bus or other vehicle for the purpose of transporting
passengers for hire upon, over and through the streets, avenues, thoroughfares
or other public places within the city limits, without having first obtained a
license to engage in such business from the city clerk. (1989 Code § 16-201)
3-4-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE:
A permit to operate a taxi, motorcar, automobile or motor bus business within
the city, or upon the streets and public ways, may be issued by the city clerk
to any person, firm or corporation of good moral character attested to by the
affidavit of two (2) residents of the city, who shall apply by submitting the
following:
   A.   Fee For License: A license fee in such amounts as established by
resolution of the city council for the first vehicle and for each additional
vehicle per year, the license to terminate on the next June 30 thereafter;
   B.   Insurance: A certificate from an insurance company licensed to do
business within the state not cancelable without ten (10) days' notice to the
city, indemnifying the city or any person to whom the applicant may become
liable in amount as established by the city council.
   C.   List Of Vehicles, Operators: A list of the motor vehicles to be used in
the business, duly showing that they, and each of them are covered by the
insurance mentioned in this section and a list of operators of the vehicles,
who are to operate the motor vehicles. (1989 Code § 16-202; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4-3: OPERATOR PERMITS ISSUED:
Permit for the driving and operating of such motor vehicles for hire within the
city shall be issued to any person of good moral character, attested to by the
affidavit of two (2) residents of the city, who has not had his motor vehicle
operator's license or commercial chauffeur's license revoked by the
commissioner of public safety of the state or his counterpart in any other
state within three (3) years immediately prior to the date of the application
and who has not been convicted of a felony, which information shall be attested
to by the chief of police according to his best knowledge, who shall: (1989
Code § 16-205)
   A.   State License: Exhibit to the city clerk proof of his being the holder
of a valid motor vehicle operator's license by the state of Oklahoma; and (Ord.
11-07-19, 7-19-2011)
   B.   Photograph: Submit to the city clerk a recent photograph not less than
one inch by one inch (1" x 1") and not larger than two inches by four inches
(2" x 4") in size for attachment to a permit for such driver, and the permit
shall be permanently and visibly displayed at all times in the taxi or motor
vehicle operated by the driver for hire. (1989 Code § 16-205)
3-4-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The license shall be prominently displayed in the principal office of the
business. (1989 Code § 16-204)
3-4-5: NOTICE OF APPLICATIONS:
Notice shall be given by the applicant for the license as set forth under
section
3-4-2 of this chapter, by posting notice in at least one public place in the
city at least seventy two (72) hours before such license may be issued. The
notice shall be in substantially the following form:
   Notice
The city of Sayre to all interested parties:
Take notice that on the          day of             ,     , an application for
taxi license was presented to the city clerk by                      and that
said application will be heard by the undersigned clerk on the              day
of                 ,     .
Take notice hereof and govern yourselves accordingly.
                       
City Clerk
(1989 Code § 16-207)
3-4-6: INSPECTION:
Every person, firm or corporation obtaining a license hereunder shall, at least
once in each calendar quarter, have each vehicle so used inspected for
operational safety and furnish the city clerk proof of the safe condition of
each vehicle. The chief of police or any highway patrol officer of this state
shall be deemed qualified to conduct the inspection. (1989 Code § 16-208)
3-4-7: REVOCATION:
The license shall be revoked immediately upon termination of required
insurance, failing to keep the list of automotive equipment and drivers up to
date in the office of the city clerk or for good cause shown. (1989 Code § 16-
203)
3-4-8: APPEAL FROM DENIAL:
Issuance or revocation of, or refusal to issue the foregoing license or
permits, and each of them, by the city clerk may be appealed to the city
council, by any citizen of the city, or person, firm or corporation aggrieved.
(1989 Code § 16-206)
3-4-9: PENALTY:
Any breach of this chapter by failing to obtain the permits, operating without
permits or failing to prominently and visibly display the same shall constitute
a breach of the ordinances of this city and shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of such operation without a permit, insurance or
operator's license, or failure to display the permit, shall constitute a
separate breach and offense. (1989 Code § 16-209)
CHAPTER 5
ITINERANT BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Tax Levied
3-5-3: Hours Of Business
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
"Itinerant occupations", "trades", "businesses" and "solicitations" shall mean
occupations, trades, businesses and solicitations having no permanent
warehouse, building, structure, residence or place of business within the city
at which a permanent business is carried on throughout the year of usual
production season in good faith, and not for the purpose of evading the
provisions of this chapter, and shall include occupations, trades, businesses
and solicitations housed in temporary stands or quarters or in permanent
quarters occupied pursuant to any temporary arrangement, or carried on by means
of house to house solicitation, or upon the streets and sidewalks of the city.
The following are not considered an itinerant trade, occupation or business:
   A.   An occupation, trade or business engaged in by an actual resident in
good faith of this county, who has been such a resident for more than ten (10)
days; or
   B.   Drives and solicitations for funds or donations carried on and
sponsored by any permanent civic, charitable, educational or religious
organization, association or club having a membership duly enrolled in
accordance with the rules, regulations and bylaws of the organization,
association or club and the majority of the members being residents of the city
or of the county. (1989 Code § 9-102)
3-5-2: TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied an occupation tax in the amount per annum or per day, at
the option of the taxpayer, against firms, persons, associations and
corporations engaged in itinerant occupations, trades, businesses or
solicitations with the city in such amount as established by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 605, 2-22-1990; amd. 2002 Code)
3-5-3: HOURS OF BUSINESS:
Solicitations within the city may only be conducted between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M., except by appointment. (Ord.
605, 2-22-1990)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT AND SERVICE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Established
4-1-2: Selection, Appointment Of Officers And Members
4-1-3: Duties Of Officials
4-1-4: Bylaws
4-1-5: Rules And Regulations
4-1-6: Use Of Fire Equipment; Inventory And Repair
4-1-7: Services Outside City Limits
4-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
The purpose of the city's volunteer fire department is to comply with state law
in providing for a uniform system of fire protection for the lives and property
of the people of the city. The term "volunteer firefighter" shall mean one who
is enrolled as a member of the fire department of the city and who serves in
that capacity without receiving a regular salary. The size of the volunteer
fire department of the city shall be composed of not less than twelve (12) nor
more than twenty five (25) members. (Ord. 09-02-17, 2-24-2009)
4-1-2: SELECTION, APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS AND MEMBERS:
   A.   Department Officers: Department officers shall be selected by the chief
based upon the following criteria:
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting;
      2.   Leadership ability;
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (1989 Code § 13-204; amd. 2002
Code)
   B.   New Members; Residency: New members of the department shall be
appointed by the chief. Employees of the fire department and volunteer
firefighters shall reside within a five (5) mile radius of the Sayre fire
station; except that not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the volunteer
firefighters may live outside said five (5) mile radius.
   C.   Probation: All new members shall be on probation for one year after
their appointment.
   D.   Approval: New volunteer members upon completion of their probation
period must be approved by the majority of the fire department. (Ord. 09-02-17,
2-24-2009)
4-1-3: DUTIES OF OFFICIALS:
   A.   Fire Chief: The chief shall be at the head of the department, subject
to the laws of the state, ordinances of the city, and the rules and regulations
adopted in this chapter. The chief shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   The chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him;
      2.   The chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cistern and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year;
      3.   The chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members;
      4.   The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties;
      5.   The chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the department;
      6.   The chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism shall notify
proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use
in the case;
      7.   The chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the
city at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice on persons for any violations that may be found;
      8.   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
department and shall make reports to the city's business manager as he may
require; (1989 Code § 13-202)
      9.   The chief shall file the appropriate activity report forms with the
office of the state fire marshal in Oklahoma City on an annual basis. The
activity report forms shall be designed by the state fire marshal and shall
include, but not be limited to, the amount of property and vehicle fire loss,
types of fires, inspections and investigations. The report shall include
notification of all fire related civilian deaths and injuries in the respective
jurisdiction and of firefighter deaths in the line of duty and of firefighter
injuries in the line of duty requiring the services of a hospital or physician
or both; and
      10.   The chief shall be responsible for implementation of safety
requirements for the city of Sayre and all other duties as directed by the city
manager. (Ord. 09-02-17, 2-24-2009)
   B.   Assistant Chief: In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on
duty shall command the department and be held responsible therefor in all
respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the chief. (1989 Code §
13-203)
   C.   Secretary-Treasurer: One member elected by the members of the fire
department shall be a secretary-treasurer. His duties shall consist of the
following:
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      3.   Collecting any money due the department by the members. (1989 Code §
13-205)
   D.   Company Officers: The company officers shall be selected upon their: 1)
knowledge of firefighting, 2) leadership ability, and 3) knowledge of
firefighting equipment. (Ord. 09-02-17, 2-24-2009)
4-1-4: BYLAWS:
The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
   A.   Respond To Alarms: All volunteer fire department members are required,
when notified, to respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies;
   B.   Attendance At Meetings: A member is required to be present at all
regular meetings, called meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighters;
   C.   Monthly Business Meeting: At least one regular business meeting of the
members shall be held each month;
   D.   Absences: Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or
three (3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be dropped
from the fire department rolls;
   E.   Leaving City For Extended Period: Any member leaving the city for an
extended period of time is required to notify the chief;
   F.   Training Classes: Any member refusing to attend training classes
provided for members of the department will be dropped; and
   G.   Offenses: Any member of the fire department may be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      2.   Any act of insubordination;
      3.   Neglect of duty;
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department;
      5.   Conviction of a felony; or (1989 Code § 13-207)
      6.   By majority vote of the members of the department and approval of
the city council. (1989 Code § 13-207; amd. 2002 Code)
4-1-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council by motion or resolution may adopt and change regulations
relating to the fire department, its organization, operation and compensation.
(1989 Code § 13-208)
4-1-6: USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR:
   A.   Use: No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any
private purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority
take away or conceal any article used in any way by the department. No person
shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or
equipment belonging to the department unless accompanied by, or having the
special permission of, an officer or authorized member of the department.
   B.   Inventory: The chief shall prepare and keep a complete inventory of all
property belonging to the fire department, and shall at the expiration of his
term turn over such inventory and all such property to his successor, together
with all books, records, reports and data of the department.
   C.   Repair: The chief shall report to the business manager any necessary
repairs, alterations or improvements needed by the fire department with an
estimate of their probable cost, and shall superintend the making of the
repairs, alterations or improvements, and if any apparatus shall become
disabled for immediate use, he shall repair the same and report his action to
the council. (1989 Code § 13-209)
4-1-7: SERVICES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Authority: The city is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into
contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or
associations, or political subdivisions of the state, for fire protection
outside the corporate limits of the city, and to contract to provide fire
protection jointly with other organizations and municipalities or subdivisions
of the state. (1989 Code § 13-210)
   B.   Contract Terms, Fees For Services: Any contract entered into by the
city with an individual owner, firm, private corporation or association, for
outside aid, or mutual aid for fire protection, shall provide for the payment
by the owner, firm, private corporation or association, or political
subdivision, to the city for such fire apparatus and personnel in such amounts
as established by resolution of the city council. All monies received from the
calls shall go into the general fund. (1989 Code § 13-211; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Authority To Answer Calls: The fire department is hereby authorized and
directed to answer all calls outside the corporate city limits in the
discretion of the fire chief. The fire department may not answer such outside
calls if, in the opinion of the fire chief, it is inexpedient to do so on
account of another fire in the city, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous
highways, or other physical conditions. (1989 Code § 13-212; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Firefighters Serving In Regular Line Of Duty: All volunteer
firefighters of the fire department attending and serving at fires or doing
fire prevention work outside the corporate limits of the city, as herein
provided, shall be considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully
as if they were serving within the corporate limits of the city. The
firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any firefighter's pension
and relief fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention
work was being done within the corporate limits of the city. Compensation of
firefighters shall be as provided by the council by ordinance or resolution.
(1989 Code § 13-213)
   E.   Department Considered Agent Of State: The fire department answering any
fire alarm or call, or performing any fire prevention services outside the
corporate limits of the city shall be considered as an agent of the state, and
acting solely and alone in a governmental capacity, and the municipality shall
not be liable in damages for any act of commission, omission, or negligence
while answering or returning from any fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire
prevention work under and by virtue of this subsection. (1989 Code § 13-214)
CHAPTER 2
AMBULANCE SERVICE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Established
4-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The city hereby establishes a sole-provider ambulance service transport
system in accordance with 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-2515.
   B.   The city shall comply with the Oklahoma emergency medical services act
as set forth in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-2501 et seq., as now existing or
as may hereafter be amended. (Ord. 616, 12-18-1990)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Fire Code Adopted
4-3-1-1: Additions, Insertions And Changes
4-3-2: Enforcement
4-3-3: Modifications To Code
4-3-4: Storage Limits
4-3-5: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies
4-3-6: Transportation Of Inflammable Liquids
4-3-7: Fire Extinguishers In Business Occupancies
4-3-8: Appeals
4-3-9: Penalty
4-3-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Sayre, being marked and designated as the
international fire code, 2006 edition (this code shall automatically upgrade
every 3 years or as new codes published by the International Code Council
become effective), including appendix chapters A through G (see international
fire code section 101.2.1, 2006 edition), as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the fire code of the city of Sayre,
in the state of Oklahoma regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and
property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and
use of hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions
hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises as
herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said fire code on file in the office of the city of
Sayre are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if
any, prescribed in section
4-3-1-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-11-18C, 11-18-2008)
4-3-1-1: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert: Sayre
(Ord. 08-11-18C, 11-18-2008)
4-3-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The fire code shall be enforced by the fire department, under the supervision
of the chief of the fire department. The chief of the fire department may
detail such members of the fire department as inspectors as shall from time to
time be necessary. The city may appoint such inspectors as the council may
authorize. The terms "bureau of fire prevention" and "chief of the bureau of
fire prevention", wherever found in the fire code, shall mean the fire
department and chief of the fire department, respectively, of this city.
Whenever the word "municipality" is used in the fire code, it means this city.
(1989 Code § 13-102; amd. Ord. 08-11-18C, 11-18-2008)
4-3-3: MODIFICATIONS TO CODE:
The chief of the fire department, with the approval of the city council, shall
have power to modify any of the provisions of the fire code upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety
secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification
when granted or allowed and the decision of the fire chief and council thereon
shall be entered upon the records of the council, and a signed copy shall be
furnished the applicant. (1989 Code § 13-106; amd. Ord. 08-11-18C, 11-18-2008)
4-3-4: STORAGE LIMITS:
The geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the 2006 international
fire code are hereby established as follows:
Section 3204.3.1.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of flammable
cryogenic fluids in stationary containers is prohibited): None specified at
present time.
Section 3404.2.9.5.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of class I and
class II liquids in aboveground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited): None
specified at present time.
Section 3406.2.4.4 (geographic limits in which the storage of class I and class
II liquids in aboveground tanks is prohibited): None specified at present time.
Section 3804.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of liquefied petroleum
gas is restricted for the protection of heavily populated or congested areas):
None specified at present time. (Ord. 08-11-18C, 11-18-2008)
4-3-5: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES:
The chief of the fire department and two (2) persons appointed by the mayor,
subject to confirmation by the city council, shall act as a committee to
determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be
heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require
permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the code. The fire chief shall
post such list in a conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies
thereof to interested persons. (1989 Code § 13-107; amd. 2002 Code)
4-3-6: TRANSPORTATION OF INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to transport, deliver,
unload or transfer at any point within the city any gasoline, kerosene or other
inflammable or combustible substance in or from a tank, tank truck, transport
or vehicle; however, such transporting, delivering, unloading or transferring
may be done with and from a tank truck if the following safety precautions are
observed:
   A.   The tank vehicle during unloading or loading must have the driver
thereof in attendance at the shutoff valve at all times during such operation;
   B.   No person shall smoke or be permitted to smoke in the vicinity of such
vehicle during the unloading or transferring operations; and
   C.   No unloading or transferring from any tank truck shall be made to any
storage tank within the fire limits unless such storage tank has above the
ground level a vent pipe of at least eight feet (8') in height. (1989 Code §
13-110)
4-3-7: FIRE EXTINGUISHERS IN BUSINESS OCCUPANCIES:
   A.   Equipment Required: Every person, firm or corporation owning or
operating a place of business within the city is hereby required to own, keep
and maintain therein such firefighting equipment or fire extinguishers as the
chief of the fire department may require. The equipment shall be inspected
regularly at least every twelve (12) months by inspectors designated by the
chief of the fire department.
   B.   Maintenance And Recharging By Fire Department: The fire department may
do any maintenance or recharging of such equipment for a fee adequate to cover
the cost of the service to the city, which fee shall be paid by the owner.
(1989 Code § 13-112)
4-3-8: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the chief of the fire department to the city council within thirty
(30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (1989 Code § 13-108)
4-3-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the fire code hereby
adopted or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to comply with
any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any detailed statement
of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the
city council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
therein, shall severally for every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of an offense, punishable by a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. When not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. (1989 Code § 13-
109; amd. Ord. 08-11-18C, 11-18-2008)
   B.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (1989 Code § 13-109)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: County Health Department Designated
4-4-2: Obstructing Health Officer
4-4-3: Violations
4-4-4: Penalty
4-4-1: COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT DESIGNATED:
Anywhere in this title where the words "health officer" are used, it shall be
construed to mean the director of the Beckham County health department or his
duly designated representative. It is the intent and purpose of the mayor and
city council to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances of this city
as set out in this title and any such decisions rendered under this title shall
be subject to review by the governing board upon an appeal from an offender.
(1989 Code § 8-601)
4-4-2: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any health
officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of this
city. (1989 Code § 8-602)
4-4-3: VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully violate or refuse or omit to comply
with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the board
of health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order, direction,
prohibition, rule or regulation. (1989 Code § 8-603)
4-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any law or code
adopted by reference in this chapter is guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violations. (1989 Code § 8-604)
CHAPTER 5
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
ARTICLE A.  COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-5A-1: Definitions
4-5A-2: Sanitation Department; Enforcement
4-5A-3: Refuse Collection As Public Utility
4-5A-4: Use Mandatory
4-5A-5: Rates And Charges
4-5A-6: Collection Schedule
4-5A-7: Containers
4-5A-8: Removal Of Garbage Or Refuse
4-5A-9: City Dump
4-5A-10: Joint Services
4-5A-11: Penalty
4-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section:
GARBAGE: Every accumulation of animal or vegetable matter, or both; that is,
the refuse matter from kitchens, pantries, dining rooms, or other parts of
hotels, restaurants, boarding houses, tenement houses, dwelling houses, market
houses, public institutions, private hospitals, all animal matter or refuse
matter from butcher shops, the animal matter from poultry houses or stores and
the refuse matter from fish stores or other business or occupations.
REFUSE: Ashes, cinders, paper, broken ware, discarded shoes or clothing, tin
cans or vessels, iron or other metallic vessels or their parts, or paper
materials and such refuse as may be termed the natural accumulations in the
yards and outside premises of resident families, including trash when
assembled, and all animal and vegetable matter not defined as garbage; the term
"refuse", for the established monthly fee, shall not include industrial wastes,
manure, debris resulting from construction, reconstruction or repairs of
buildings, nor dead or fallen trees, nor refuse or waste that is not properly
contained, bundled or baled. Large tree trimmings, logs, branches and bulk
quantities of debris will be removed at an extra charge above the monthly
service fee, based on the labor and equipment required to handle with a minimum
charge as set by the council. Paper, excelsior, cartons, and other small
refuse, may be packed into boxes which may be loaded completely to the truck
without use of the appropriate container provided by the city. (1989 Code § 17-
304; amd. 2002 Code)
4-5A-2: SANITATION DEPARTMENT; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Department; Superintendent: There shall be a sanitation department, the
head of which shall be the superintendent of the sanitation department
appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council, for an
indefinite term and removable by the council. He shall be an officer of the
city, and shall have supervision and control of the sanitation department.
(1989 Code § 17-303; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Collection, Disposal: It is the duty of the sanitation department,
among others, to collect garbage and other refuse and to dispose of it. (1989
Code § 17-303)
      2.   Administration: The sanitation department shall have charge of the
collection and disposal of garbage and other refuse under the general direction
of the city council. (1989 Code § 17-305)
4-5A-3: REFUSE COLLECTION AS PUBLIC UTILITY:
The operation of the city's refuse collection service is hereby declared to be
a public utility and a proper source of city revenues and expenditures for the
upkeep and maintenance of the city's refuse collection service. The refuse
collection service is operated as part of the Sayre public works authority.
(1989 Code § 17-301)
4-5A-4: USE MANDATORY:
Each and every owner, tenant, occupant or lessee of any family dwelling,
separate apartment, building, office or premises within the corporate limits of
the city, is required by this article to accept and use the refuse or garbage
services provided by the city, to pay to the city clerk the prescribed fee or
fees for such refuse or garbage services on or before the tenth day of each
month for the services rendered during the previous month. (1989 Code § 17-306)
4-5A-5: RATES AND CHARGES:
The city council shall from time to time by ordinance or resolution set or
amend the fees and charges for refuse collection used by customers of the
city's refuse collection system. A copy of the current fees or charges shall be
kept on file in the city clerk's office. (1989 Code § 17-302)
4-5A-6: COLLECTION SCHEDULE:
It shall be the duty of the sanitation department to collect refuse and/or
garbage from each premises according to the schedule set by the city council.
(1989 Code § 17-307)
4-5A-7: CONTAINERS:
   A.   Required: The owner or occupant, as the case may be, of any and all
premises within the city having wet garbage to be disposed of, shall procure,
supply and place a watertight heavy container, approved by the city council.
(1989 Code § 17-308; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Placing Container: Garbage or refuse containers shall be placed on the
property adjoining and accessible to the alley line or such other place as may
be approved by the city council.
   C.   Unlawful Deposit: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to
deposit for collection on any street, alley or parking in the city, or any
private property, any refuse except as herein provided. Each day the refuse is
permitted to remain unlawfully in any alley, street, parking or elsewhere shall
constitute a separate offense. (1989 Code § 17-310; amd. 2002 Code)
4-5A-8: REMOVAL OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE:
   A.   Authority Required: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to remove from any premises in the city, or to transport through the streets,
alleys or public places, any "garbage" or "refuse", as defined in this article,
unless authorized by the city council. Every such unauthorized act shall
constitute an offense.
   B.   Contracts For Removal: The city council reserves the right and may
enter into a contract with some suitable person or persons for the removal of
wet "garbage" or "refuse", as defined in this article, upon such terms and
conditions as the council may prescribe.
   C.   Termination Of Contract: The city council shall have the right to
terminate any such contract or agreement upon ten (10) days' written notice.
(1989 Code § 17-309)
4-5A-9: CITY DUMP:
   A.   Operation: The city shall operate a city dump ground and the city does
reserve the right and authority to direct traffic to and from the dumping area,
to direct persons where to dump trash and/or garbage, to fix charges for
dumping if the city deems it expedient, to make all the rules and regulations
necessary for the orderly control of the dumping area or city dump ground.
   B.   Authority Of Agent: The city dump ground shall be operated by the city
or an agent of the city. Any such agent is hereby given the authority to direct
dumping operations by individuals or persons and the agent shall have the right
to order and direct the method, the place of dumping and to have the authority
to direct and operate the city dump. (1989 Code § 17-312)
4-5A-10: JOINT SERVICES:
Nothing in this article shall prohibit the creation and operation of a joint
cooperative city-county sanitary service and landfill operation. This action
must conform with current state statutes and state health department
regulations. (1989 Code § 17-311)
4-5A-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this article
shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 17-313)
ARTICLE B.  WEEDS AND TRASH ACCUMULATION
SECTION:
4-5B-1: Definitions
4-5B-2: Enforcement
4-5B-3: Exception For Agriculture
4-5B-4: Cleaning And Mowing Of Property
4-5B-5: Right Of Entry; Lien
4-5B-6: Determination Of Cost
4-5B-7: Failure To Pay
4-5B-8: Summary Abatement
4-5B-9: Open Burning
4-5B-10: Removal Of Dead Animals
4-5B-11: Littering
4-5B-12: Unauthorized Removal Of Garbage Or Refuse
4-5B-13: Abandoned Ice Boxes, Refrigerators
4-5B-14: Appeal
4-5B-15: Penalty
4-5B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CLEANING: The removal of trash from property.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal or waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discarded or abandoned.
WEED: A. Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
      1.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs
or produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of said weeds;
      2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
      3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
      4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors; constitutes a fire or traffic
hazard; or is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "weed" shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use. (Ord. 649, 7-18-1995)
4-5B-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority: The city council may enact ordinances to prohibit owners of
property or persons otherwise in possession or control located within the city
limits from allowing trash to accumulate, or weeds to grow or stand upon the
premises, and may impose penalties for violation of said ordinances. (Ord. 649,
7-18-1995)
   B.   Business Manager As Administrative Officer: The business manager or his
designated officer is hereby designated as the administrative officer to carry
out the duties of the city council specified in sections
4-5B-4 through
4-5B-7 of this article, pertaining to weeds and trash complaints. (Ord. 650, 9-
19-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
4-5B-3: EXCEPTION FOR AGRICULTURE:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any property zoned and used
for agricultural purposes. (Ord. 649, 7-18-1995)
4-5B-4: CLEANING AND MOWING OF PROPERTY:
The city may cause property within the city limits to be cleaned of trash and
weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   Notice: At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of
the property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in
the county treasurer's office. The notice shall order the property owner to
clean the property of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the
property, as appropriate, and said notice shall further state that unless such
work is performed within ten (10) days of the date of the notice, the work
shall be done by the city and a notice of lien shall be filed with the county
clerk against the property for the costs due and owing the city. At the time of
mailing of notice to the property owner, the city shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if the property owner
cannot be located within ten (10) days from the date of mailing by the city
council, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or
by publication, one time not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or
action by the city council. If the city council anticipates summary abatement
of a nuisance in accordance with the provisions of section
4-5B-8 of this article, the notice, whether by certified mail, posting or
publication, shall state that any accumulations of trash or excessive weed or
grass growth on the owner's property occurring within six (6) months from and
after the date of this notice may be summarily abated by the city; that the
costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and that a lien
may be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further
prior notice to the property owner.
   B.   Consent By Owner; Waiver Of Hearing: The owner of the property may give
his written consent to the city authorizing the removal of the trash or the
mowing of the weeds or grass. By giving said written consent, the owner waives
his right to a hearing by the city council.
   C.   Hearing: A hearing may be held by the city council to determine whether
the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused the
property to become detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of the public
and the community, or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire hazard to the
danger of property. (Ord. 649, 7-18-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
4-5B-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY; LIEN:
Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a detriment or
hazard, and that the property would be benefited by the removal of such
conditions, the agents of the city are granted the right of entry on the
property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and performance of
the necessary duties as a governmental function of the city. Immediately
following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the city clerk shall file a
notice of lien with the county clerk describing the property and the work
performed by the city, stating that the city claims a lien on said property for
the cleaning or mowing costs. (Ord. 649, 7-18-1995)
4-5B-6: DETERMINATION OF COST:
The city council shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning and mowing
and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith, including
the cost of notice and mailing. The city clerk shall forward by mail to the
property owner specified in subsection 4-5B-4A of this article, a statement of
such actual cost and demanding payment. If the cleaning and mowing are done by
the city, the cost to the property owner for said cleaning and mowing shall not
exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance and equipment required. If the
cleaning and mowing are done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be
awarded to the lowest and best bidder. (Ord. 649, 7-18-1995)
4-5B-7: FAILURE TO PAY:
If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of
the statement, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the cost to the county treasurer of the county in which the property is
located and the same shall be levied on the property and collected by the
county treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. Until fully paid, the cost
and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date the cost is certified to the county treasurer. In
addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the cost is certified to the county treasurer, coequal
with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments
and prior and superior to all other titles and liens against the property, and
the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully paid. At the time of
collection, the county treasurer shall collect a fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the city council for each parcel of property. Such
fee shall be deposited to the credit of the general fund of the county. At any
time prior to the collection as provided in this section, the city may pursue
any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon,
including an action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem
to foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from
the surface interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject
to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving
payment, if any, the city clerk shall forward to the county treasurer a notice
of such payment and directing discharge of the lien. (Ord. 649, 7-18-1995; amd.
2002 Code)
4-5B-8: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
If a notice is given to a property owner ordering the property within the city
limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds, or grass to be cut or mowed, any
subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the
property occurring within a six (6) month period may be declared to be a
nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the
property owner. At the time of each such summary abatement, the city shall
notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice
shall state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten (10) days
after the date of mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as
provided for in subsection 4-5B-4A of this article. Unless otherwise determined
at the hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be determined and collected as
provided for in sections
4-5B-6 and
4-5B-7 of this article; provided, however, that these provisions pertaining to
summary abatement shall not apply if the records of the county clerk show that
the property was transferred after notice was given pursuant to subsection 4-
5B-4A of this article. (Ord. 649, 7-18-1995)
4-5B-9: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
set fire to, or burn or allow fire to be set to, or allow the burning of, any
rubbish, litter, paper, debris, garbage, trash, trees, leaves, stumps or other
similar or related materials at any time, or at any place within the corporate
limits of the city, except under a permit approved by the Oklahoma state health
department.
   B.   Application; Recommendations; State Approval: Application for an open
burning permit shall be made with the city clerk. The application will be
reviewed by the fire chief for his recommendations, then forwarded to the
county office of the Oklahoma state health department (OSDH) for their
approval. If OSDH approval is granted, a permit to burn may be issued by the
mayor. (1989 Code § 8-110)
4-5B-10: REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in this city shall,
within twenty four (24) hours after the death of such animal, remove its
carcass, and failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 8-112; amd. 2002 Code)
4-5B-11: LITTERING:
   A.   Unlawful:
      1.   "Littering" is defined as throwing any trash, refuse, waste paper,
tin can, bottles or any other object or substance whatever upon the public
streets, alleys, roadways and sidewalks of the city, or upon any real property
owned or occupied by another.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to litter. (1989 Code § 8-113)
   B.   Littering From Automobiles: It is unlawful for any person to throw from
any automobile or motor vehicle being operated and driven upon and over the
streets, alleys and roadways of the city any litter, trash, waste paper, tin
cans or any other substance or refuse whatever. (1989 Code § 8-114)
   C.   Accumulation On Property:
      1.   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation occupying any real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow
trash, waste paper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or
disposed of objects to accumulate upon such real property or premises being so
occupied or rented to such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any
real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow accumulated trash, waste
paper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of
objects to be carried from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements
or otherwise, to any adjoining or other real estate not so owned or occupied by
the offender. (1989 Code § 8-115)
4-5B-12: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE:
It is unlawful for any person, unless authorized so to do by the city, to
remove from any premises situated in the city or to transport through the
streets, alleys or public places of the city, any garbage or rubbish. (1989
Code § 8-116)
4-5B-13: ABANDONED ICE BOXES, REFRIGERATORS:
It is unlawful for any person to leave in a place accessible to children any
abandoned, unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator or container, without
first removing the door, lock or fastener. (1989 Code § 8-117)
4-5B-14: APPEAL:
The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the city council from any
order of the administrative officer or administrative body. Such appeal shall
be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the city clerk within ten (10)
days after the administrative order is rendered. (Ord. 649, 7-18-1995; amd.
2002 Code)
4-5B-15: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of this article, or
who shall allow the premises occupied to become unsanitary, or who shall in any
manner violate any of the provisions of this article, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 8-118)
CHAPTER 6
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Authority
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Nuisance Unlawful
4-6-4: Owner Responsible
4-6-5: Time Does Not Legalize
4-6-6: Remedies
4-6-7: Summary Abatement
4-6-8: Abatement By Suit In District Court
4-6-9: Health Nuisances; Abatement
4-6-10: Dilapidated Buildings; Procedure
4-6-11: Procedures Cumulative
4-6-12: Ordinances Prohibiting Nuisances; Penalty
4-6-1: AUTHORITY:
As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the city has the power to
determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate
limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the
public water supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical
to do so, the city has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after
notice to the owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be
done. (1989 Code § 8-506)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
NUISANCE: Unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty or any thing or
condition which either:
   A.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
   B.   Offends decency;
   C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or basin, or
any public park, square, street or other public property; or
   D.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
PRIVATE NUISANCE: Every nuisance not included in the definition of "public
nuisance" is a private nuisance.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A. One which affects at the same time an entire community or
neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal.
   B.   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      1.   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      2.   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the city; or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinances of the city;
      3.   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      4.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      5.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      6.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law or
ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      7.   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the city; or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      8.   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      9.   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
of ordinary sensibilities; or, the keeping of an animal which makes such
noises;
      10.   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      11.   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      12.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      13.   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      14.   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin or disease germs; and the premises on which such exist;
      15.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition;
      16.   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      17.   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      18.   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare;
      19.   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not), or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district;
      20.   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the city, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance;
      21.   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become hazardous from fire,
by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or shall be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of this city or its inhabitants,
from any cause, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
The above enumeration of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative and not
limit other provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private
nuisances either in more general or more specific terms. (1989 Code §§ 8-501,
8-507; amd. 2002 Code)
4-6-3: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner, lessee
or other person, to create or maintain a nuisance within the city or to permit
a nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the city. (1989 Code
§ 8-310)
4-6-4: OWNER RESPONSIBLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (1989 Code § 8-
502)
4-6-5: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (1989 Code § 8-503)
4-6-6: REMEDIES:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 12;
or
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (1989 Code § 8-
504)
   B.   Private Nuisances: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 14
and 15; or
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (1989 Code § 8-
505)
4-6-7: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
   A.   Authority: Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave
and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or
more persons, or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances
may be such as to justify, and even to require the mayor or other appropriate
officer or agency of the city government to take immediate and proper action
summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until
more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   B.   Statement Of Existence; Request For Abatement, Recommendation: The
chief of the fire department, the chief of police, the city attorney, the
building inspector, the electrical inspector, the plumbing inspector, or any
other officer subordinate to the mayor, may submit through or with the consent
of the mayor to the city council, a statement as to the existence of a
"nuisance", as defined by the ordinances of the city or law, and a request or
recommendation that it be abated. The mayor himself, the health officer and
city council, or any resident or residents of the city, may submit such a
statement and request a recommendation to the city council.
   C.   Determination; Power Of Council; Hearing: The city council shall
determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the
purpose of gathering evidence on the subject, the city council shall have power
to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers and other effects. Before
proceeding to abate the nuisance or have it abated, the city council shall give
notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any property
concerned and an adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and
opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such notice to the owner and other
persons concerned shall be given in writing by mail or by service by a police
officer if their names and addresses are known; but, if the names or addresses
are not known, and the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person
or persons or public adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the
necessary delay, a notice of the hearing shall be published in a paper of
general circulation within the city.
   D.   Abatement: If the city council finds that a nuisance does in fact
exist, it shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing
the nuisance to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would
not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other
persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the
specified time, the city council shall direct the mayor to abate the nuisance
or to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50
Oklahoma Statutes section 16. The city clerk shall send a statement of the cost
of such summary abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or
causing the nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names
and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the
city collectible as other debts to the city may be collected. (1989 Code § 8-
508)
4-6-8: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the city
may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 17. (1989 Code § 8-509)
4-6-9: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Authority; Notice: Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1-1011, the health officer shall have authority to order the
owner or occupant of any private premises in the city to remove from such
premises, at his own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness or
condition conducive to the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute
to the transmission of disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the
public health, within twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may
be directed in writing and may be served personally on the owner or occupant of
the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the health officer or by a police
officer, or a copy thereof may be left at the last usual place of abode of the
owner, occupant or agent, if known and within the state. If the premises is
unoccupied and the residence of the owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is
without the state, the order may be served by posting a copy thereof on the
premises or by publication in at least one issue of a newspaper having a
general circulation in the city.
   B.   Refusal To Comply: If the order is not complied with, the health
officer may cause the order to be executed and complied with and the cost
thereof shall be certified to the city clerk, and the cost of removing or
abating such nuisance shall be added to the water bill or other city utility
bill of the owner or occupant if he is a user of water from the city water
system or such other utility service. The cost shall be treated as a part of
such utility bill to which it is added and shall become due and payable, and
subject to the same regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the
utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant is not a user of any city
utility service, such cost, after certification to the city clerk, may be
collected in any manner in which any other debt due the city may be collected.
(1989 Code § 8-511)
4-6-10: DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the meaning as ascribed:
    BOARDING AND SECURING OR BOARDED AND SECURED: The closing, boarding or
locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
structure.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING: A structure which through neglect or injury lacks
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such
an extent that said structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of
the general public.
   OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
county treasurer.
   UNSECURED BUILDING: Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or
equitable owner thereof, or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner, and into
which there are one or more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked
windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in the
roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways or other similar unsecured openings
which would facilitate an unauthorized entry into the structure.
   B.   Exception For Agriculture: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any property zoned and used for agricultural purposes.
   C.   Notice; Hearing; Determination: The city council may cause dilapidated
buildings within the city limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with
the following procedures:
      1.   At least ten (10) days' notice that a building is to be torn down or
removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the city council
holds a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be
affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the
property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
office of the county treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any
mortgage holder as shown by the records in the office of the county clerk to
the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to
any property owner or mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if neither the
property owner nor mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property, or by publication. Such notice
may be published once, not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or
action by the city council;
      2.   A hearing shall be held by the city council to determine if the
property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health, safety or
welfare of the general public and the community, or if the property creates a
fire hazard which is dangerous to other property;
      3.   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property constitutes
a detriment or a hazard and that the property would be benefited by the removal
of such conditions, the city council may cause the dilapidated building to be
torn down and removed. The city council shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and completion of the work. The city clerk shall immediately file
a notice of dilapidation and lien with the county clerk describing the
property, the findings of the city at the hearing, and stating that the city
claims a lien on the property for the destruction and removal costs and that
such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the
date of filing of said notice. The agents of the city are granted the right of
entry on the property for the performance of the necessary duties as a
governmental function of the city if the work is not performed by the property
owner within dates fixed by the city council.
   D.   Cost Determined: The city council shall determine the actual cost of
the dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and other expenses that
may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing. The city clerk shall
forward a statement of the actual cost attributable to the dismantling and
removal of the building and a demand for payment of such costs, by mail, to the
property owner. In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder at the address provided for in subsection C1 of this section.
At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or
mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. If the city dismantles or removes any dilapidated
buildings, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, maintenance and equipment required for the dismantling and removal
of the dilapidated building. If dismantling and removal of the dilapidated
building is done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder.
   E.   Release Of Lien; Levy Of Costs: When payment is made to the city for
costs incurred, the city clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payment
attributable to the actual cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings
is not made within six (6) months from the date of the mailing of the statement
to the owner of such property, the city clerk shall forward a certified
statement of the amount of the cost to the county treasurer of the county in
which the property is located. The costs shall be levied on the property and
collected by the county treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law. Until
finally paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall be the personal
obligation of the property owner from and after the date of the notice of
dilapidation and lien is filed with the county clerk. In addition, the cost and
the interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the
notice of the lien is filed with the county clerk. The lien shall be coequal
with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments
and shall be prior and superior to all other titles and liens against the
property. The lien shall continue until the cost is fully paid. At any time
prior to collecting provided for in this subsection, the city may pursue any
civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon, including
an action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to
foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from
the surface interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject
to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving
payment, the city clerk shall forward to the county treasurer a notice of such
payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
   F.   Administrative Officer; Appeal: The city council may designate, by
ordinance, an administrative officer or administrative body to carry out the
duties of the city council specified in this section. The property owner shall
have the right of appeal to the city council from any order of the
administrative officer or administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing written notice of appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days after
the administrative order is rendered.
   G.   Nuisance Abatement: Nothing in the provisions of this section shall
prevent the city from abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise
exercising its police power to protect the health, safety or welfare of the
general public.
   H.   Liability Of Officers: The officers, employees or agents of the city
shall not be liable for any damages or loss of property due to the removal of
dilapidated buildings performed pursuant to the provisions of this section or
as otherwise prescribed by law.
   I.   Trash And Weeds: The city council may cause the premises on which an
unsecured building is located to be cleaned of trash and weeds in accordance
with the provisions of chapter 5, article B of this title.
   J.   Boarding And Securing Of Building:
      1.   After a building has been declared dilapidated, as provided in this
section, and before the commencement of the tearing and removal of a
dilapidated building, the city council may authorize that such a building be
boarded and secured.
      2.   The city council may cause an unsecured building to be boarded and
secured in accordance with the following procedures:
         a.   Before the city council orders such action, at least ten (10)
days' notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and secured shall be
given by mail to any property owners and mortgage holders as provided in
subsection C1 of this section. At the time of mailing of notice to any property
owner or mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee. A copy of the notice shall also be posted on the
property to be affected. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage
holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on
the property or by publication. Such notice shall be published one time, not
less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the city pursuant to
the provisions of this section. If the city council anticipates summary
abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the provisions of subsection J2j of
this section, the notice shall state that any subsequent need for boarding and
securing the building within a six (6) month period after the initial boarding
and securing of the building pursuant to such notice may be summarily boarded
and secured by the city council; that the costs of such boarding and securing
shall be assessed against the owner; and that a lien may be imposed on the
property to secure such payment; all without further prior notice to the
property owner or mortgage holder.
         b.   The owner of the property may give his written consent to the
city authorizing the boarding and securing of such unsecured building and to
the payment of any costs incurred thereby. By giving said written consent, the
owner waives his right to a hearing by the city council.
         c.   If the property owner does not give his written consent to such
actions, a hearing may be held by the city council to determine whether the
boarding and securing of such unsecured building would promote and benefit the
public health, safety or welfare. Such hearing may be held in conjunction with
a hearing on the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass on the
premises of such unsecured building held pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. In making such determination, the city council shall apply the
following standard: the city council may order the boarding and securing of the
unsecured building when the boarding and securing thereof would make such
building less available for transient occupation, decrease a fire hazard
created by such building, or decrease the hazard that such building would
constitute an attractive nuisance to children. Upon making the required
determination, the city council may order the boarding and securing of the
unsecured building.
         d.   After the city council orders the boarding and securing of such
unsecured building, the city clerk shall immediately file a notice of unsecured
building and lien with the county clerk describing the property, stating the
findings of the city council at the hearing at which such building was
determined to be unsecured, and stating that the city claims a lien on said
property for the costs of boarding and securing such building and that such
costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date
of filing said notice.
         e.   Pursuant to the order of the city council, the agents of the city
are granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the
boarding and securing of such building and for the performance of all necessary
duties as a governmental function of the city.
         f.   After an unsecured building has been boarded and secured, the
city council shall determine the actual costs of such actions and any other
expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith including the cost of
the notice and mailing. The city clerk shall forward a statement of the actual
costs attributable to the boarding and securing of the unsecured building and a
demand for payment of such costs, by mail, to any property owners and mortgage
holders as provided in subsection C1 of this section. At the time of mailing of
the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the city shall
obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
         g.   If the city boards and secures any unsecured building, the cost
to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, materials
and equipment required for the performance of such actions. If such actions are
done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest
and best bidder.
         h.   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the city
clerk shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual
costs of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not made within
thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of
such property, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount
of the costs to the county treasurer as are other taxes authorized by law.
Until fully paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall be the personal
obligation of the property owner from and after the date the notice of
unsecured building and lien is filed with the county clerk. In addition, the
costs and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the
date the notice of the lien is filed with the county clerk. Said lien shall be
coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special
assessments and shall be prior and superior to all other titles and liens
against the property. The lien shall continue until the costs and interest are
fully paid. At any time prior to collection as provided for in this subsection,
the city may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and
interest thereon, including an action in personam against the property owner
and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral
interest, if severed from the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or
judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the
city clerk shall forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and
shall direct discharge of the lien.
         i.   The city may designate by ordinance an administrative officer or
administrative body to carry out the duties of the city council specified in
this subsection. The property owner or mortgage holder shall have a right of
appeal to the city council from any order of the administrative officer or
administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of
appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative order
is rendered.
         j.   If the city council causes a structure within the city limits to
be boarded and secured, any subsequent need for boarding and securing within a
six (6) month period constitutes a public nuisance and may be summarily boarded
and secured without further prior notice to the property owner or mortgage
holder. At the time of each such summary boarding and securing, the city shall
notify the property owner and mortgage holder of the boarding and securing and
the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may request
an appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the mailing of the
notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in subsection J2a of
this section. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such
boarding and securing shall be determined and collected as provided for in
subsections J2f through J2h of this section.
         k.   The city council may determine that a building is unsecured and
order that such building be boarded and secured, even though such building has
not been declared by the city council to be dilapidated. (Ord. 613, 9-18-1990)
4-6-11: PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative to any other
penalties or procedures authorized. (1989 Code § 8-513)
4-6-12: ORDINANCES PROHIBITING NUISANCES; PENALTY:
   A.   The city council may enact ordinances to prohibit owners of property or
persons otherwise in possession or control of property located within the city
limits from allowing nuisances to occur, accumulate, stand upon the premises,
and may impose penalties for violation of said ordinances.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of this
chapter, or who shall allow a nuisance to occur upon the premises, or who shall
in any manner violate any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code but in no event shall the fine be less than ten dollars
($10.00). Each day or any portion of a day during which any violation of this
code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 09-11-17C, 11-17-2009)
CHAPTER 7
JUNKED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Administration; Supervision
4-7-2: Nuisance Declared
4-7-3: Notice To Owner, Occupant
4-7-4: Public Hearing
4-7-5: State Transportation Department Notified
4-7-6: Disposal Of Abandoned Vehicles
4-7-7: Removal Of Vehicle Obstructing Traffic
4-7-8: Reconstruction Prohibited
4-7-9: Court Orders; Authority
4-7-1: ADMINISTRATION; SUPERVISION:
Administration and supervision of the removal of vehicles or part thereof as
provided in this chapter shall be by the chief of police, except that the
removal of the abandoned vehicle or part thereof declared to be a nuisance may
be by any other person duly authorized by the chief of police. (1989 Code § 8-
306)
4-7-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any abandoned motor vehicle is hereby declared a nuisance and is prohibited,
and is subject to abatement as provided in this chapter. An "abandoned motor
vehicle" is defined to mean any motor vehicle which is self-propelled and which
is inoperative and which does not have lawfully affixed thereto both an
unexpired license plate or plates and a valid motor vehicle safety inspection
certificate and which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled or
discarded, and which is located in any place where it is visible from a public
place or public right of way; however, this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
   B.   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed vehicle
dealer or a junkyard. (1989 Code § 8-301)
4-7-3: NOTICE TO OWNER, OCCUPANT:
Prior to removal of an abandoned vehicle by the city, notice shall be given to
the owner or occupant of the premises whereupon such nuisance exists, stating
the nature of the public nuisance and giving the owner or occupant ten (10)
days in which to remove or abate the nuisance. Such notice shall be mailed, by
certified or registered mail with a five (5) day return requested, to the owner
or occupant. If the notice is returned undelivered by a U.S. postal service
official, action to abate the nuisance shall be continued to a date not less
than ten (10) days from the date of such return. (1989 Code § 8-302)
4-7-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
Any owner or occupant of the premises upon which the abandoned motor vehicle is
located, after receiving notice to abate in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter may, within ten (10) days after service of notice to abate the
public nuisance, request a public hearing prior to the removal of the abandoned
vehicle or part thereof declared to be a public nuisance. Such hearing shall be
heard before the chief of police. Any order requiring the removal of a vehicle
or part thereof shall include a description of the vehicle and the correct
identification number and license number of the vehicle if available at the
site. (1989 Code § 8-303)
4-7-5: STATE TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT NOTIFIED:
Notice shall be given by the chief of police to the state transportation
department within five (5) days of the date of removal identifying the
abandoned vehicle or part thereof. (1989 Code § 8-305)
4-7-6: DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
The chief of police shall dispose of junked vehicles or parts thereof by
removal to a scrap yard or demolished as scrap or salvage, but subject to the
provisions of section
4-7-8 of this chapter. The chief of police may enter upon private property for
the purposes specified in this chapter relative to removal of abandoned
vehicles, to examine vehicles or parts thereof, obtain information as to the
identity of vehicles, and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts
thereof declared by the chief of police to be a nuisance, pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. (1989 Code § 8-307)
4-7-7: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall affect the provisions permitting
immediate removal of a vehicle left on public property which constitutes an
obstruction to traffic. (1989 Code § 8-309)
4-7-8: RECONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED:
No vehicle removed under the provisions of this chapter shall be reconstructed
or made operable. (1989 Code § 8-304)
4-7-9: COURT ORDERS; AUTHORITY:
The judge of the municipal court shall have authority to issue all orders
necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (1989 Code § 8-308)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Created; Chief, Appointment
5-1-2: Duties
5-1-3: Assistance Outside City
5-1-1: CREATED; CHIEF, APPOINTMENT:
There shall be a police department, the head of which shall be the chief of
police, appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council,
for an indefinite term, and removable by the mayor and city council. The chief
of police shall be an officer of the city, and shall have supervision and
control of the police department. There may be such additional police officers
as the mayor and city council may authorize. All police officers shall be
officers of the city. (1989 Code § 13-401; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the police department to apprehend and arrest on view
or on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the city;
to suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. The city council may make
arrangements with the board of county commissioners for use of the county jail
for city purposes. (1989 Code § 13-402; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1-3: ASSISTANCE OUTSIDE CITY:
   A.   Authority: In an emergency situation, approval is hereby given for
service of members of the regular police department of this city as police
officers to any other city, town or county, in the state not more than forty
five (45) miles distance from the city, when such service is requested by the
mayor or chief of police of the city or town, or sheriff of the county, in
accordance with state law. (1989 Code § 13-403)
   B.   Requesting: Requests for service under subsection A of this section
shall be made by writing or by telephone, or other means of communication, to
the business manager who, if he determines that the request can be granted
consistent with the continuance of the proper police protection to the
inhabitants of this city, shall direct the chief of police to furnish the
number of officers requested and to arrange for their transportation to the
requesting municipality or county. (1989 Code § 13-404)
   C.   Reimbursement Required: Any municipality or county requesting and
receiving service by members of the police department shall reimburse this city
for the cost of the transportation to and from such municipality of the
officers so serving and the pro rata cost of their salaries, insurance and
other benefits attributable to their service in such municipality or county.
(1989 Code § 13-405)
   D.   Contract Required; Exception In Public Emergency: Except in cases of
extreme public emergency, no services shall be rendered hereunder to any
municipality or county unless such service is in accordance with the terms of
this section. The business manager hereby is authorized to negotiate and
execute contracts with the proper contracting officers of such municipalities
or counties, which shall be on a reciprocal basis, thereby securing to this
city the service of members of the police departments of such municipalities or
counties should an emergency arise necessitating such service here. All such
contracts shall be submitted to the city council for approval before effective.
(1989 Code § 13-406)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Organization; Conflicting Provisions
5-2-2: Definitions
5-2-3: Jurisdiction
5-2-4: Judges
5-2-5: Chief Of Police; Writs Or Processes
5-2-6: Clerk Of The Court
5-2-7: Prosecuting Attorney
5-2-8: Rules Of Court
5-2-9: Written Complaints; Ordinance Violations
5-2-10: Traffic Ordinance Violations
5-2-11: Creation Of Traffic Violations Bureau
5-2-12: Summons For Arrest
5-2-13: Form Of Arrest Warrant
5-2-14: Bail Or Bond Procedures
5-2-15: Traffic Bail Bond Procedures
5-2-16: Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant
5-2-17: Trials And Judgments
5-2-18: Witness Fees
5-2-19: Trial By Jury And Waiver
5-2-20: Jurors And Jury Trial Procedures
5-2-21: Sentencing
5-2-22: Imprisonment; Work By Prisoners
5-2-23: Fines And Costs
5-2-24: Penalty Assessment
5-2-1: ORGANIZATION; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal
criminal court of the city, as put into operation by resolution duly passed and
filed in accordance with law as authorized by 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-
101 and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this
chapter and the provisions of any ordinance of this city, the provisions of
this chapter shall control. (1989 Code § 6-101)
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
CLERK: The clerk of this municipality, including any deputy or member of the
office staff of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
COURT: The municipal criminal court of the city of Sayre.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council of the city of Sayre.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal criminal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
MUNICIPALITY OR THIS MUNICIPALITY: The city of Sayre, Beckham County, Oklahoma.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma wherein the government of this municipality is situated. (1989 Code §
6-102)
5-2-3: JURISDICTION:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance
with applicable law. (1989 Code § 6-103)
5-2-4: JUDGES:
   A.   Qualifications: There shall be one judge of the court. The mayor,
subject to confirmation by the city council, may appoint any suitable and
proper person as judge who is a resident of that city, or who maintains a
permanent office in that city. The mayor may be designated as judge of the
municipal court upon approval of the city council. The judge must be at least
twenty five (25) years of age. (1989 Code § 6-104; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Term Of Judge: The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years,
expiring on February 13 in each odd-numbered year. Each judge, unless sooner
removed for proper cause, shall serve until his successor is appointed and
qualified. The judge of the municipal court existing in this municipality as of
the initial effective date hereof shall act as judge of the court herein
provided for until a judge is appointed and qualified under the terms of this
chapter. (1989 Code § 6-105)
   C.   Alternate Judge: There shall be appointed for each judge of the court
an alternate judge possessed of the same qualifications as the judge. His
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
judge. He shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case if the judge is:
      1.   Absent from the court;
      2.   Unable to act as judge; or
      3.   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case. (1989 Code § 6-106)
   D.   Acting Judge: If at any time there is no judge or alternate judge, duly
appointed and qualified, available to sit as judge, the mayor, subject to
confirmation by the city council, shall appoint some person, possessing the
qualifications required by this chapter for the judge, who shall preside as
acting judge over the court in the disposition of pending matters until such
time as a judge or alternate judge shall be available, and such judge need not
be an attorney. (1989 Code § 6-107; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Appointment Of Judge, Alternate Judge: Judges and alternate judges
shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council. A
proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the governing body prior
to the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted
upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The governing body may decide
upon the proposed appointment by a majority vote of a quorum present and
acting. Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent
action thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body
unless the mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment. (1989 Code §
6-108; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Compensation:
      1.   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the governing body by motion or resolution, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of this municipality.
      2.   An alternate judge or an acting judge shall be paid an amount as set
by the governing body for each day devoted to the performance of his duties,
except that the total payments so calculated during any month shall not exceed
the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits. An alternate or acting judge
who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount specified in this chapter
as the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits. (1989 Code § 6-109)
   G.   Removal:
      1.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing body
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
         a.   The mayor; or
         b.   Twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of this municipality.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
      2.   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the judge shall be entitled to:
         a.   Representation by counsel;
         b.   Present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against him;
and
         c.   Have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      3.   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the Oklahoma
administrative procedures act governing individual proceedings (75 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 309 through 317, as amended) shall govern removal proceedings
hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by
a majority of all members of the governing body, in favor of such removal.
(1989 Code § 6-110)
   H.   Vacancy In Office:
      1.   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         a.   Dies;
         b.   Resigns;
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         d.   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
      2.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term, upon the same
procedure as an original appointment is made. (1989 Code § 6-111)
   I.   Disqualification: In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue
shall be allowed; but the judge before whom the case is pending may certify his
disqualification or he may be disqualified from sitting under the terms,
conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is
disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge
appointed as provided in this chapter. (1989 Code § 6-112)
5-2-5: CHIEF OF POLICE; WRITS OR PROCESSES:
All writs or process of the court shall be directed, in his official title, to
the chief of police of this municipality, who shall be the principal officer of
the court. (1989 Code § 6-113)
5-2-6: CLERK OF THE COURT:
The city clerk or a deputy designated by him, shall be the clerk of the
municipal court. The clerk shall:
   A.   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court, preparation
of writs, processes or other papers;
   B.   Administer oaths required in judicial or other proceedings before the
court;
   C.   Be responsible for the entry of all pleadings, processes and
proceedings in the dockets of the court;
   D.   Perform such other clerical duties in relation to the proceedings of
the court as the judge shall direct;
   E.   Receive and give receipt for and disburse or deliver to the city
treasurer all fines, forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of money properly
payable to the municipal court; and
   F.   Pay to the city treasurer immediately all money so received by him,
except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by
him for special purposes. All money paid to the city treasurer shall be placed
in the general fund of the municipality, or in such fund as the governing body
may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the municipal government
in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is
placed. (1989 Code § 6-114)
5-2-7: PROSECUTING ATTORNEY:
The attorney for this municipality, or his duly designated assistant, shall be
the prosecuting officer of the court. He shall also prosecute all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the city. He shall be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal, proceedings in error and review
from this court to any other court of the state, and to represent this
municipality in all proceedings arising out of matters in this court. (1989
Code § 6-115)
5-2-8: RULES OF COURT:
   A.   Authority To Prescribe: The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with
the laws of the state and with the ordinances of this municipality for the
proper conduct of the business of the court. (1989 Code § 6-117)
   B.   Enforcement Of Rules: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made
by the judge or by the court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or
imprison for contempt committed as to him while holding court, or committed
against process issued by him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the
district courts of this state. (1989 Code § 6-118)
5-2-9: WRITTEN COMPLAINTS; ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS:
Except as provided otherwise in this chapter, all prosecutions commenced in the
municipal court shall be initiated by filing of a written complaint which shall
be subscribed and verified by the person making complaint and setting forth
concisely the offense charged. All prosecutions for the violation of municipal
ordinances shall be styled, "The city of Sayre vs. ___________ (naming the
person or persons charged)". (1989 Code § 6-119)
5-2-10: TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS 1 :
   A.   If a police officer observes facts which he believes constitute a
violation of the traffic ordinances of this municipality, committed by a
resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he may take his name,
address, operator's license number, and registered license number of the motor
vehicle involved and any other pertinent and necessary information, and may
issue him in writing in form prescribed by the mayor or his duly designated
delegate, a traffic citation embracing the above information, and also stating
the traffic violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him to answer to
the charge against him at a time, not later than thirty (30) days thereafter,
specified in the citation. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of
the alleged violator, endorsed on the citation, to answer as specified, may
then release the person from custody. If the person to whom a citation is
issued fails to answer as prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be
filed and the case shall be prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   B.   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident or
resident of this municipality, the police officer may:
      1.   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set out
in subsection A of this section pending his appearance on a day certain in
court, as specified in the citation;
      2.   Take the person in custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      3.   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his release in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon giving
his written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in subsection A
of this section, the person shall be released from custody.
   C.   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in subsections
A or B of this section, with such variation as the circumstances require. The
operator of this vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him personally under subsections A or B of
this section. (1989 Code § 6-120)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-2-15 of this chapter.
5-2-11: CREATION OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU:
   A.   Schedule Of Fines: A traffic violations bureau hereby is established as
a division of the office of the clerk of the court, to be administered by the
clerk, or by subordinates designated by him for that purpose. The schedule of
fines shall be as established by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Payment; Failure To Pay: The court may adopt rules to carry into effect
this section. Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute a final
determination of cause against the defendant. If a defendant who has elected to
pay a fine under this section fails to do so, prosecution shall proceed under
the provisions of this chapter. (1989 Code § 6-121; amd. 2002 Code)
5-2-12: SUMMONS FOR ARREST:
   A.   Issuance; Information Required: Upon the filing of a complaint charging
violation of any ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant
of arrest, or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has
been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming
the person charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer
the charge in the court on a certain day, five (5) days (Sundays and holidays
excepted) after the summons is served upon him, and including such other
pertinent information as may be necessary.
   B.   Service; Warrant For Failure To Appear: The summons shall be served by
delivering a copy to the defendant personally. If he fails to appear and to
answer the summons within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for
his arrest, as provided by this chapter. (1989 Code § 6-122)
5-2-13: FORM OF ARREST WARRANT:
   A.   Issuance; Form: Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this
municipality, upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the
attorney of this municipality or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant
of arrest, in substantially the following form:
The City of Sayre to the chief of police of Sayre, Oklahoma:
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense of (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been
committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor
forthwith to arrest the above named defendant and bring (insert him, her, them)
before me, at the (naming the place).
Witness my hand this          day of         ,         .
                                         
Judge (or Clerk) of the
Municipal Court of Sayre, Oklahoma
   B.   Execution Of Warrant: It shall be the duty of the police chief,
personally, or through a duly constituted member of the police force of this
municipality, or through any other person lawfully authorized so to act, to
execute a warrant as promptly as possible. (1989 Code § 6-123)
5-2-14: BAIL OR BOND PROCEDURES:
Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance
in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail. In case of
arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency or when the judge
is not available, the rules shall authorize the chief of police, or his
designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by
ordinance for the offense charged. (1989 Code § 6-124)
5-2-15: TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROCEDURES 1 :
   A.   Conditions Of Release: In addition to other provisions of law for
posting bail, any person, whether a resident of this state or a nonresident,
who is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation
of a state traffic law or municipal traffic ordinance, shall be released by the
arresting officer upon personal recognizance if:
      1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States, or any party jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      3.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation; and
      4.   The violation does not constitute:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   Negligent homicide;
         c.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         d.   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         e.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         f.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         g.   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections A4a through A4f of this section;
         h.   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         i.   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   B.   Officer's Duties For Release:
      1.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in subsection A of this section, then the
arresting officer shall:
         a.   Designate the traffic charge;
         b.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state
and expiration date;
         c.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         d.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         e.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation.
      2.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional, and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's drivers license in this state, or in
the nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
   C.   State Law Provisions Applicable: Procedures for arraignment,
continuances and scheduling, timely appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo
contendere, posting bail, payment of fines and costs, issuance of arrest
warrants, and requests for suspension of drivers license, shall be required in
state law, 22 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1115.1 through 1115.5.
   D.   Plea Of Guilty Or Nolo Contendere: A defendant released upon personal
recognizance may elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the
violation charged at any time before he is required to appear for arraignment
by indicating such plea on the copy of the citation furnished to him or on a
legible copy thereof, together with the date of the plea and his signature. The
defendant shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs
to the court clerk. The defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail.
If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, as provided
for in this subsection, such plea shall be accepted by the court and the amount
of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed by ordinance for the violation
charged or as prescribed by the court.
   E.   Failure To Plea Or Appear:
      1.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant, and the municipal or district court clerk, within
one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by
the arresting officer, shall notify the state department of public safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      2.   The court clerk shall request the state department of public safety
to either suspend the defendant's driver's license to operate a motor vehicle
in this state, or notify the defendant's home state and request suspension of
the defendant's driver's license in accordance with the provisions of the
nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall be on a form
approved or furnished by the state department of public safety. The court clerk
shall not process the notification and request provided for in this subsection
if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   F.   Records Maintained: The court clerk shall maintain a record of each
request for driver's license suspension submitted to the state department of
public safety pursuant to the provisions of this section. When the court or
court clerk receives appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles
the citation, makes other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes
the case, the court clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the
defendant personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at
such other address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court or
court clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on
the citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator
compact, and shall in all other cases, notify the state department of public
safety of the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the state department of public safety;
provided, however, the court or court clerk's failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided for in this subsection shall in no event create
any civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, or any state department or agency or any employee thereof
but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled thereto upon
request. (1989 Code § 6-125)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-2-10 of this chapter.
5-2-16: ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The judge, or the attorney of the municipality, shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by
jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether
he pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may
proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the
court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(1989 Code § 6-126)
5-2-17: TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   B.   Presence Of Defendant Required: The defendant must be present in person
at the trial.
   C.   Procedures: In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter,
or by the statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly
promulgated by the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective.
   D.   Judgment; Penalty: If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after
the trial, the court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within
the limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly.
   E.   Docket: At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by
the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket.
   F.   Acquittal; Discharge Of Defendant: If judgment is of acquittal, and the
defendant is not to be detained for any other legal cause, he must be
discharged at once.
   G.   Refusal To Pay Fines And Costs: If a defendant who is financially able
refuses or neglects to pay a fine or costs, or both, payment may be enforced by
imprisonment until the same shall be satisfied at the rate of five dollars
($5.00) per day. If the defendant is without means to pay the fines or costs,
the municipal judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon the
court minutes and to be certified to the district court in the county where the
situs of the municipal government is located, where it shall be entered upon
the district court judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of
a district court judgment. Thereupon the same remedies shall be available for
the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other judgment
creditor. (1989 Code § 6-127)
5-2-18: WITNESS FEES:
   A.   Required: Witnesses in any proceeding in the court, other than police
officers or peace officers, shall be entitled to a sum as set by the governing
body per day of attendance, plus a sum for each mile actually and necessarily
traveled in going to and returning from the place of attendance if their
residence is outside the limits of the municipality. However, no witness shall
receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or
the same travel.
   B.   Defendant Deposit Fees; Exception:
      1.   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the
clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for
each witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required, from an
indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
         a.   The names of no more than three (3) witnesses;
         b.   That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
         c.   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
         d.   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper
defense.
      2.   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the municipality. (1989
Code § 6-128)
5-2-19: TRIAL BY JURY AND WAIVER:
   A.   Scope: In all prosecutions for violations of ordinances punishable by
fine of more than state statutes allow, including costs, or by imprisonment, or
by both fine and imprisonment, trial shall be by jury, unless waived by the
defendant. If trial by jury is waived, trial shall be to the court.
   B.   Defendant's Decision; Recording: At arraignment, the defendant shall be
asked whether he demands or waives trial by jury. His election shall be
recorded in the minutes of the arraignment and entered on the docket of the
court respecting proceedings in the case.
   C.   Changes In Decision: An election waiving jury trial, made at
arraignment, may be changed by the defendant at any time prior to the day for
which trial by the court is set; an election demanding jury trial may be
changed at any time prior to the commencement of proceedings to impanel the
jury for the trial, but if that change occurs after the case has been set for
jury trial, it may not thereafter be rechanged so as again to demand trial by
jury. (1989 Code § 6-129)
5-2-20: JURORS AND JURY TRIAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Request For Jurors: Whenever a calendar has been made up for the trial
of cases by jury, the judge shall request, in writing, the presiding judge of
the district court for this judicial district to cause the names of a stated
number of jurors, deemed sufficient to dispose of the cases on the calendar, to
be drawn from the jury wheel in accordance with the governing statutes of the
state, and to be certified by the clerk of the district court to the judge of
the municipal court. The request shall be made in time for the list to be
certified and the jurors to be summoned legally before the trial on the
calendar begins. If it is anticipated that the completion of the calendar will
require more than two (2) weeks, the request for jurors shall specify the
number required for each two (2) week period, as provided by law for the
drawing of jurors for the district court. Additional drawings of other names
also may be requested by the judge, when necessary, in accordance with the law
for such additional drawings in the district court. If, in the future,
provisions of the law respecting the drawing of jury lists for the district
court are changed, the judge shall take such steps, in requesting jury lists
for the court, as are necessary to comply with the state law.
   B.   Summons Of Jurors: Upon receipt of the jury list, the clerk of the
court shall cause a summons substantially in the following form to be issued
and served upon each person on the list:
State of Oklahoma)
                      ) ss:
County of Beckham    )
To                                 , Greeting:
you hereby are summoned to appear in the Municipal Court for the City of Sayre,
Oklahoma, to be held at                                  on the      day of    
        ,     , at the hour of        o'clock     .M., to serve as a juror in
said court, and to continue in such service until discharged by the court.
Hereof fail not, under penalty of law.
Issued under the authority of said court, this          day of             ,  
  .
                               
Clerk of the Municipal Court of
      the City of Sayre, Oklahoma
   (Seal)
   C.   Service: Service shall be made, as the judge may prescribe by rule or
direct by order, either in person upon the juror by the marshal of the court or
by any member of the police force of this municipality, or by the clerk of the
court, through certified mail, directed to the juror at his address as given in
the jury list with request for a personally signed return receipt. In any
proceeding wherein service of summons by mail is in issue, evidence of the due
mailing of the summons by the clerk or a member of his staff and the
presentation of an official postal return receipt purportedly signed by the
addressee shall be prima facie evidence that the summons was duly received by
the addressee and therefore, that he was properly served therewith.
   D.   Number; Qualifications: A jury in the court shall consist of six (6)
jurors, good and lawful men or women, citizens of the county of Beckham,
possessing the qualifications of jurors in district court.
   E.   Duties Of Jurors: After the jurors are sworn, they must sit together
and hear the proofs and oral arguments of the parties, which must be delivered
in public and in the presence of the defendant.
   F.   Voting: A verdict of the jury may be rendered by the vote of five (5)
jurors.
   G.   Questions Of Law; Instructions To Jurors: In all actions tried before a
jury, the judge shall determine all questions of law, including questions as to
the introduction of evidence, arising during the trial. He also shall instruct
the jury as to the law.
   H.   Verdict: The verdict of the jury, in all cases, must be general. When
the jury has arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the verdict publicly to
the court. The judge must enter the verdict in the docket or cause it to be so
entered.
   I.   Discharge: The jury must not be discharged after the cause is submitted
to it until a verdict is rendered, unless the judge, for good cause, discharges
it sooner, in which event the court may proceed again to trial, and so on,
until a verdict is rendered.
   J.   Jury Fees: Jurors shall receive for their services a sum of as set by
the governing body per day, plus mileage for each mile necessarily traveled by
the most direct route in going to and from the court from their respective
places of residence. The claims for such compensation shall show the location
of the juror's residence and the route and miles traveled, and must be verified
as other claims against the municipality are verified. Jurors shall be paid out
of the general funds of the municipality. (1989 Code § 6-130)
5-2-21: SENTENCING:
   A.   State Provisions Applicable: The judge may suspend, modify, defer or
reduce a sentence in accordance with 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-123 and
27-124.
   B.   Power Of Judge Licensed: A judge who is licensed to practice law in
this state in imposing a judgment and sentence, at his discretion, is empowered
to modify, reduce or suspend, or defer the imposition of such sentence or any
part thereof, and to authorize probation for a period not to exceed six (6)
months from the date of sentence, under such terms or conditions as the judge
may specify. Procedures relating to suspension of the judgment or costs, or
both, shall be as provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-123. Upon
completion of the probation term, the defendant shall be discharged without a
court judgment of guilt, and the verdict, judgment of guilty or pleas of guilty
shall be expunged from the record and the charge dismissed with prejudice to
any further action. Upon a finding of the court that the conditions of
probation have been violated, the municipal judge may enter a judgment of
guilty. The judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment and sentence for a
period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of sentence. At the
expiration of such period of time, the judge may allow the municipal attorney
to amend the charge to a lesser offense. If a deferred sentence is imposed, an
administrative fee in such amount as established by resolution of the city
council may be imposed as costs in the case. (1989 Code § 6-131; amd. 2002
Code)
5-2-22: IMPRISONMENT; WORK BY PRISONERS:
   A.   Execution: All sentences of imprisonment shall be executed by the chief
of police, and any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of the
municipality and sentenced to imprisonment shall be confined in the jail, farm
or workhouse, of the municipality, in the discretion of the court, for the time
specified in the sentence.
   B.   Judgment Of Imprisonment: If, after conviction, judgment of
imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be
delivered to the chief of police, the sheriff of the county or other
appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution
of the sentence.
   C.   Work By Prisoners: All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on
plea of guilty may be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public
streets, avenues, alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or
property. For each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving
one day of imprisonment under his sentence.
   D.   Supervision Of Work; Guards: The chief of police, subject to the
direction of the governing body, shall direct where the work shall be
performed. The head of the department in charge of the place where the work is
to be performed, himself, or by some person designated by him, shall oversee
the work. If a guard is necessary, the chief of police shall make provision
therefor. (1989 Code § 6-132)
5-2-23: FINES AND COSTS:
If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court shall tax the
costs to the defendant in such amounts as established by resolution of the city
council, or the maximum allowed by state law, whichever is greater, plus the
fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses, all of which the defendant shall pay,
in addition to any fine that may be imposed. (1989 Code § 6-134; amd. 2002
Code)
5-2-24: PENALTY ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Separate Penalty Assessment: Any person convicted of an offense
punishable by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00) or more, or by incarceration,
excluding parking and standing violations, or any person forfeiting bond when
charged with such an offense, shall be ordered by the court to pay a separate
penalty assessment, in such amounts as established by resolution of the city
council, which shall be in addition to and not in substitution for any and all
fines and penalties otherwise provided for by law for such offense. The court
shall provide for separate bail for the penalty assessment. A defendant
admitted to bail on an undertaking by a surety may include the amount of the
penalty assessment in the undertaking. (1989 Code § 6-134; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Disposition Of Assessment: Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the
court shall collect the penalty assessment and deposit it in an account created
for that purpose. As an administrative fee for handling funds collected as a
penalty assessment, the court is authorized to retain two percent (2%) of such
monies and may also retain all interest accrued thereon prior to the due date
for deposits as provided in this subsection. The remainder of such monies shall
be forwarded quarterly by the court clerk to the state treasury. Deposits shall
be due July 15 for the preceding quarter ending June 30, October 15 for the
preceding quarter ending September 30, January 15 for the preceding quarter
ending December 31, and April 15 for the preceding quarter ending March 31.
   C.   "Convicted" Defined: As used in this section, "convicted" means any
final adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment.
(1989 Code § 6-134)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Definitions
5-3A-2: At Large
5-3A-3: Pasturing In Public Places
5-3A-4: Keeping Of Specific Animals
5-3A-5: Animals Which Disturb
5-3A-6: Buildings For Animals; Location
5-3A-7: Kennels, Pet Shops And Similar Establishments
5-3A-8: Sanitation
5-3A-9: Vicious Dogs May Be Killed
5-3A-10: Penalty
5-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section, except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat, rabbit,
chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
AT LARGE: An animal shall not be deemed at large when it is on premises under
the control of or occupied by its owner. An animal shall not be deemed at large
when it is under restraint by a competent person by means of leash or
otherwise. All other animals shall be deemed at large.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an animal.
The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains,
or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten (10) days or more,
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: An animal which has bitten, or attempted to bite, without undue
provocation, or which attacks, or acts as if it intended to attack or bite, or
bites, when not unduly provoked. (1989 Code § 4-101; amd. 2002 Code)
5-3A-2: AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibited: No owner shall permit any animal owned, harbored or kept by
him to be at large. It is unlawful for any animal to be at large at any time
within the city. (1989 Code § 4-102)
   B.   Turning Animals At Large Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
open any enclosure in which any animal is confined as required by ordinance so
as to turn the animal at large, or in any manner to turn the animal at large.
(1989 Code § 4-103)
5-3A-3: PASTURING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, city or other,
on any railroad right of way, or on any property without the consent of the
person owning or controlling such property. (1989 Code § 4-104)
5-3A-4: KEEPING OF SPECIFIC ANIMALS:
   A.   Swine: It is unlawful for any person to keep swine within the city,
except in an enclosure awaiting immediate transportation, or as may be
specified by the agricultural zoning regulations of the city zoning
regulations. (1989 Code § 4-105; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Animals And Fowl Requiring Permits:
      1.   Permit Required; Exception: It is unlawful for any person, persons,
firm, corporation or association of individuals to allow or permit any fowl,
including, but not limited to, chickens, pigeons and other like fowl, or any
domestic animal, including, but not limited to, horses, mules, donkeys, cows,
sheep or goats, within the city limits without first having obtained a permit
from the city clerk; except that said permit shall not be required for tracts
of land in the city which are zoned agriculture. (Ord. 633, 6-15-1993; amd.
2002 Code)
      2.   Application Requirements; Petition Of Property Owners: The city
clerk shall issue a permit, subject to the satisfaction of the requirements of
subsection B3 of this section, upon receipt of an application in writing,
together with a petition, requesting permission for an animal or a fowl pen.
The petition shall be signed by one hundred percent (100%) of the owners and
occupants of the property adjacent to, or within one hundred feet (100'),
excluding streets and alleys, of the outside boundary of the site of such
animal or fowl pen, but no such permit shall be issued without the prior
approval of the city council. (1989 Code § 4-115)
      3.   Suitable Enclosure Required: Prior to the issuance of a permit for
the keeping of animals and fowl within the city limits, the city clerk shall
ascertain that suitable enclosure space has been erected for the safekeeping of
such animals or fowl, and each such enclosure or pen shall be substantially
erected on the ground area of not less than nine hundred (900) square feet per
each fowl pen, and not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet
per each animal, and not less than one hundred fifty feet (150') from any
dwelling, and all of such enclosures shall be situated on an alley or rear
property line of the lot. (1989 Code § 4-116)
      4.   Revocation Of Permit: The keeping of any animal or fowl shall be
upon the condition that the city council may revoke the permit issued for this
purpose when it is satisfactorily proved that any of the provisions of this
chapter have been violated; or that the keeping of any such animal or fowl is a
nuisance to any individual, neighborhood or the public generally, or that the
keeping of same is likely to endanger, or be prejudicial to the public health
or welfare of any citizen or citizens of the city. (1989 Code § 4-117)
   C.   Wild, Exotic Or Dangerous Animals:
      1.   Defined: For the purpose of this section, a "wild, exotic or
dangerous animal" means an animal of the larger variety which is usually not a
domestic animal and which can normally be found in the wild state, with or
without mean or vicious propensities, including, but not limited to, lions,
tigers, leopards, panthers, bears, wolves, alligators, crocodiles, apes, foxes,
elephants, rhinoceroses, and all forms of poisonous snakes, lynxes, raccoons,
skunks, monkeys, and other like animals.
      2.   Keeping Prohibited; Exception, Permit Required:
         a.   It is unlawful to keep or harbor any wild, exotic or dangerous
animal in the city limits as a pet or for display or for exhibition purposes,
whether gratuitously or for a fee, except as provided in this section.
         b.   If the owner of a wild, exotic or dangerous animal can establish
to the police department's satisfaction that an animal ordinarily considered as
wild, dangerous or exotic is not dangerous to people or other animals and that
the animal is healthy, safe and tame as a pet, then the city clerk may issue a
permit to the owner to keep such animal in the city limits. The permit shall be
renewed annually. The fee shall be set by the city council. For any animal so
permitted as provided in this subsection, the owner agrees to accept full
responsibility for the actions and behavior of such animal. The establishment
of whether such animal is healthy, safe and tame as a pet shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the animal by submitting written evidence to the
police department. No permit shall be granted by the city clerk unless written
approval to the evidence submitted by the owner is submitted to the city clerk
in advance.
         c.   The city may issue temporary permits for keeping, care and
protection of an infant animal native to this area which has been deemed to be
homeless. The city shall have the power to release or order the release of any
infant wild animal kept under temporary permit which is deemed capable of
survival.
      3.   Parks, Zoos, Exhibitions; Exceptions: This section shall not be
construed to apply to zoological parks or zoos, performing animal exhibitions
or circuses licensed by the city. (1989 Code § 4-118)
5-3A-5: ANIMALS WHICH DISTURB:
It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the city any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of any person. (1989 Code § 4-106)
5-3A-6: BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS; LOCATION:
   A.   Construction: Every stable or building wherein any animal is kept
within the city shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that
it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times.
   B.   Receptacle For Manure: Every such stable or building, if located within
two hundred feet (200') of any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant,
boarding house, retail food store, building used for educational, religious or
hospital purposes, or residence other than that occupied by the owner or
occupant of the premises upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with
a watertight and flytight receptacle for manure, of such size as to hold all
accumulations of manure. The receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and
in such manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be
kept covered at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of
manure or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises
except in the receptacle. (1989 Code § 4-107)
5-3A-7: KENNELS 1 , PET SHOPS AND SIMILAR ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Kennel Defined; Location: The keeping of more than three (3) dogs over
six (6) months old or more than three (3) cats over six (6) months old is
hereby declared to be keeping or operating a kennel. Not more than three (3)
such dogs or cats may be kept in any residence district or in any other
district or area of the city except in a district specifically zoned for
kennels. (1989 Code § 4-108)
   B.   Regulations: All pet shops, catteries and kennels shall:
      1.   Maintain records and retain such records for a two (2) year period
on all dogs and cats maintained in such facility. Such records shall show
breed, color, markings, sex and age; date and source of animal; period for
which animal is maintained; date and disposition of animal, including name and
address of new owner; disease prevention or treatment and by whom;
      2.   Provide general environmental conditions to assure adequate physical
space for each animal, to control parasites, clean food and water, weather
protection and clean and sanitary facilities; and
      3.   Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable materials if used for
confinement and shall keep such cages and pens clean and sanitary at all times.
(1989 Code § 4-109)
 
Notes
1 1. See also definition of "kennel" at section 10-1-4 of this code.
5-3A-8: SANITATION:
   A.   Stables To Be Kept Clean: Every structure, pen, lot or place wherein an
animal is kept or permitted to be shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, devoid of rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors.
(1989 Code § 4-111)
   B.   Disposal Of Manure: Manure shall be hauled outside the city in a manner
which does not jeopardize the public health, or else shall be spread evenly
upon the ground and turned under at once or as soon as the weather permits,
except as required in subsection 5-3A-6B of this article. (1989 Code § 4-112;
amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Inspection By Chief Of Police: The chief of police or his designee,
upon complaint of any person, shall inspect any structure or place where an
animal is kept, and may do so on his own initiative. He may issue any such
reasonable order as he may deem necessary to the owner of the animal to cause
the animal to be kept as provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to
constitute a nuisance. He may make a complaint before the municipal judge
against any person for violation of any provision of this chapter or of any
such reasonable order, but this procedure shall not abridge the right of others
to make such complaint. (1989 Code § 4-113; amd. 2002 Code)
5-3A-9: VICIOUS DOGS MAY BE KILLED:
Any person may kill a dog in self-defense or in defense of another when the
dog, without undue provocation, bites him or the other, or attacks, or attempts
to bite or attack, him or the other in such manner that an ordinarily prudent
person would be led to believe that the person toward whom the efforts of the
dog are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise physically harmed. The dog
must be at large. (1989 Code § 4-124)
5-3A-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any ordinance or provision of this
chapter, or who violates, or refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable
order made by any authorized official pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined or imprisoned as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The penalties provided for herein shall be in addition to
other remedies of the city and aggrieved persons and shall not be construed as
exclusive. (1989 Code § 4-160; amd. 2002 Code)
ARTICLE B.  VACCINATIONS AND RABIES CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Vaccinations Required
5-3B-2: Quarantine Of Animals For Observation
5-3B-3: Pathological Examination; Reporting
5-3B-4: Rabies Crisis Declaration
5-3B-5: Destruction Of Animals Under Crisis Period
5-3B-6: Surrender Of Animals Under Suspect
5-3B-1: VACCINATIONS REQUIRED:
The owner of a dog or cat shall have the dog or cat vaccinated against rabies
by a veterinarian or other authorized person every calendar year before the
first day of May thereof, or, in the case of a pup or kitten, before it is six
(6) months old. The person vaccinating the dog or cat shall furnish the owner a
certificate of vaccination. (1989 Code § 4-120)
5-3B-2: QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS FOR OBSERVATION:
The identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a person shall
be promptly furnished to the animal control officer, the health officer and the
county health department. The animal control officer shall securely quarantine
such animal for a period of ten (10) days and shall not release such
quarantined animal until reasonable determination has been made that the animal
is not infected with rabies. At the discretion of the animal control officer,
such quarantine may be on the premises of the owner, at a veterinary hospital
of the owner's choice at the owner's expense, or at the city animal shelter. In
case of animals whose ownership is unknown, such quarantine shall be at the
city animal shelter. The animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free
of rabies and such owner shall then pay any related charges for confinement.
(1989 Code § 4-150)
5-3B-3: PATHOLOGICAL EXAMINATION; REPORTING:
When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid or is
suspected of having rabies by a licensed veterinarian and dies while under such
observation, the animal control officer, veterinarian, the health officer, or
other designated emissary, shall immediately send the necessary part of such
animal to the state health department for pathological examination and shall
notify the proper public health officer of any reports of human contact. (1989
Code § 4-151)
5-3B-4: RABIES CRISIS DECLARATION:
When a report gives a suspected or a positive diagnosis of rabies, or when the
city, county or state health officials feel that a rabies crisis may be
imminent, the health officials may recommend to the business manager city-wide
quarantine, and upon the invoking of such quarantine by the city council, by
resolution, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the
streets, except for short periods of exercise under leash and control of a
competent adult. During the quarantine, no animal may be taken or removed from
the city without written permission of the animal control officer. This
declaration must be made by notice in a general circulated newspaper of the
community and will last as long as health officials determine the situation
requires such action. (1989 Code § 4-152)
5-3B-5: DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS UNDER CRISIS PERIOD:
During the period of rabies quarantine as provided in section
5-3B-4 of this article, every animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid
shall be forthwith destroyed, or at the owner's expense and option, shall be
treated for a rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian, or held under six
(6) month quarantine by the owner in the same manner as a female in season. The
period of quarantine may be extended from time to time. (1989 Code § 4-153)
5-3B-6: SURRENDER OF ANIMALS UNDER SUSPECT:
No person shall remove from the city any animal suspected of having been
exposed to rabies, or any animal which has bitten a human, except as herein
provided. The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered
to the animal control officer upon demand, and the animal control officer shall
direct disposition of the animal. No person shall refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction when such demand is lawfully made by the
animal control officer. (1989 Code § 4-154)
ARTICLE C.  LICENSING AND TAGS
SECTION:
5-3C-1: Tax Levied
5-3C-2: Placement Of Tag; Lost Tags
5-3C-3: Counterfeiting Tags; Placing On Others
5-3C-1: TAX LEVIED:
   A.   Levied: A tax per year in such amount as established by resolution of
the city council for every neutered dog or cat more than six (6) months of age,
and a tax per year in such amounts as established by resolution of the city
council for every nonneutered dog or cat more than six (6) months of age, is
hereby levied upon the owner of any such dog or cat kept or harbored within the
city.
   B.   Exceptions: The tax provisions of subsection A of this section shall
not apply to:
      1.   Seeing-eye dogs properly trained to assist blind persons if such
dogs are actually being used by blind persons to assist them in moving from
place to place.
      2.   Hearing dogs properly trained to assist deaf persons if such dogs
are actually used by deaf persons to aid them in responding to sounds.
      3.   Dogs especially trained to assist officials of government agencies
in the performance of their duties and which are owned by such agencies.
      4.   Dogs kept in kennels or pet shops for sale.
      5.   Dogs or cats temporarily brought and kept within the city, nor to a
dog or cat brought into the city to participate in a dog or cat show.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as to exempt any dog from having
a current rabies vaccination. (1989 Code § 4-121; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Payment Due: The owner shall pay the tax levied to the city clerk for
every calendar year at the following times:
      1.   Before May 1 of each calendar year; or
      2.   If the dog or cat is acquired or brought in the city after May 1, or
becomes six (6) months of age after May 1, within thirty (30) days after
acquiring or bringing the dog or cat into the city or it becoming six (6)
months of age. The fee for part of the year shall be prorated based on the
number of days left in the year, but in no instance shall the fee be less than
one-half (1/2) of the annual rate.
   D.   Vaccination Certificate Required: Before the city clerk accepts any
money offered in payment of the tax for a dog or cat or issues a license for
it, the person offering the tax shall present to the city clerk the certificate
of a veterinarian or other person legally authorized to immunize dogs or cats,
showing that the dog or cat has been immunized against rabies during the
calendar year, that is, since December 31 of the preceding year.
   E.   Registration Information Required: The owner of the dog or cat shall,
at the time of paying the tax, register the dog or cat by giving the city clerk
the name and address of the owner, the name, breed, color and sex of the dog or
cat, and such other reasonable information as the city clerk may request.
   F.   Receipt And Tag: The city clerk thereupon shall deliver an original
receipt to the taxpayer and also an appropriate tag to him for the dog or cat.
Such tag shall constitute a license for the dog or cat. (1989 Code § 4-121)
5-3C-2: PLACEMENT OF TAG; LOST TAGS:
   A.   The owner shall cause the tag received from the city clerk to be
affixed to the collar of the dog or cat upon which the tax has been paid so
that the tag can easily be seen by officers of the city. The owner shall see
that the tag is so worn by the dog or cat at all times.
   B.   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another for the dog or cat by applying to the city
clerk, presenting to him the original receipt, and paying to him a fee in such
amounts as established by resolution of the city council. (1989 Code § 4-122;
amd. 2002 Code)
5-3C-3: COUNTERFEITING TAGS; PLACING ON OTHERS:
No person shall counterfeit, or attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued for a
dog or cat as provided in this article, or take from any dog or cat a tag
legally placed upon it, or place such tag upon a dog or cat for which the tag
was not specifically issued. (1989 Code § 4-123)
ARTICLE D.  ANIMAL SHELTER AND IMPOUNDING
SECTION:
5-3D-1: Pound Established
5-3D-2: Animals Impounded
5-3D-3: Interference With Impounding Prohibited
5-3D-4: Fees For Impounding
5-3D-5: Redemption By Owner
5-3D-6: Sale Of Impounded Animals
5-3D-1: POUND ESTABLISHED:
A city pound is hereby established under the jurisdiction of the police
department. It shall be under the immediate control of a pound officer or of
such other person as may be officially designated. The person in charge of the
pound shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded and shall treat
them in a humane manner. (1989 Code § 4-130)
5-3D-2: ANIMALS IMPOUNDED:
   A.   Authority: The pound officer, a police officer, or such other officer
or employee of the city as may be authorized:
      1.   Shall take into custody and impound any animal running at large in
violation of any provision of the ordinances of the city;
      2.   May enter upon the premises of the owner of an animal to take an
animal into custody only when the animal is suspected of having rabies or when
the officer has a complaint that the animal has bitten another, and the animal
is to be quarantined in accordance with the provisions of article B of this
chapter; and
      3.   May enter upon private premises of one other than the owner of an
animal running at large for the purpose of taking such animal into custody.
(1989 Code § 4-131)
   B.   Custody By Other Persons: Any other person may take such animal into
custody and present it to the authority in charge of the pound for impounding.
(1989 Code § 4-131; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Disposition Of Impounded Animals: Animals which are of no apparent
value, taken into custody as provided in this section, shall be destroyed in a
humane manner by the officer or employee of the city in charge of such animal,
or by the pound officer after a full three (3) days or seventy two (72) hours
have elapsed of taking the animal into custody, provided the animal is not
redeemed or claimed as provided in this article. A description of every animal
impounded shall be maintained by the pound officer. The pound officer shall
notify the owner of any impounded animal which has on it current license tags
as required in this chapter at the address shown in the city's tag registration
records before disposing of the animal. (1989 Code § 4-131)
5-3D-3: INTERFERENCE WITH IMPOUNDING PROHIBITED:
No unauthorized person shall:
   A.   Break or attempt to break open the pound, or take or let out any animal
therefrom;
   B.   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the city any
animal taken into custody as provided by this article; or
   C.   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his duties relating to the taking into custody and impounding of
animals as provided in this article. (1989 Code § 4-132)
5-3D-4: FEES FOR IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Established: The city council by motion or resolution shall determine
the fees to be charged for impounding and keeping animals. In computing the
fee, a fraction of a day during which an animal has been fed shall be deemed a
full day.
   B.   Payment Required: Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay
the required fees to the city clerk and present his receipt therefor to the
person in charge of the pound before the latter releases the animal.
   C.   License Required: Any person redeeming a dog or cat not licensed as
required by article C of this chapter shall pay the required license tax to the
city clerk and secure a tag and present the receipt therefor and the tag to the
person in charge of the pound before the latter releases the dog or cat. If a
dog or cat has been licensed but is not wearing the tag, the person in charge
of the pound shall require adequate evidence of the proper licensing of the dog
or cat before releasing it. (1989 Code § 4-133)
5-3D-5: REDEMPTION BY OWNER:
An owner of an impounded animal or his agent may redeem the animal, prior to
its sale or destruction, as provided for herein, by paying the required fees
against the animal and meeting any other requirements which may be prescribed
in this chapter. However, when in the judgment of the animal control officer,
an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not be
redeemed. (1989 Code § 4-134; amd. 2002 Code)
5-3D-6: SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   Notice Of Impoundment: As soon as practicable after any animal of
apparent value has been impounded, the pound officer or other employee or
officer impounding the animal, shall inform the chief of police; and the chief
of police shall thereupon post a notice thereof at the police office of the
city. The notice shall describe the animal and notify the owner to pay the
charges thereon and remove the same prior to a designated time. The notice
shall also state that, unless the animal is redeemed, the animal will be sold.
   B.   Condition Of Sale: Sales herein provided for shall be for cash and
shall be conducted by, or under the direction of, the chief of police.
   C.   Disposal: If an impounded animal cannot be sold, he shall destroy the
animal, or have it destroyed, in a humane manner, or otherwise dispose of it in
a legal manner.
   D.   Title To Animal: The purchaser of an animal at a sale held as provided
herein shall acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
   E.   Payment Of Money Received: The police department shall pay to the city
clerk all money received from the sale of impounded animals on the day it is
received or on the next day upon which the office of the city clerk is open for
business. (1989 Code § 4-135)
   F.   Owner Claim Excess Money: The owner of an impounded animal sold as
provided herein may claim the excess of the sale price of the animal above the
fees for impounding and keeping the same and a fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the city council, to reimburse the city for any
expense it has had in making the sale, at any time within three (3) months
after the sale. If a claim is so made and approved by the city council, the
city clerk shall pay him such excess. If a claim is not made, the excess shall
belong to the city. (1989 Code § 4-136; amd. 2002 Code)
ARTICLE E.  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-3E-1: Prohibited
5-3E-2: Poisoning Animals
5-3E-3: Encouraging Animals To Fight
5-3E-1: PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person wilfully and maliciously to pour on, or apply to,
an animal any drug or other thing which inflicts pain on the animal; or
knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or knowingly to
neglect an animal belonging to him or in his custody in a cruel or inhumane
manner. (1989 Code § 4-140)
5-3E-2: POISONING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for a person wilfully to poison any dog or other animal, except
a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or knowingly to expose poison so that the
same may be taken by such an animal. (1989 Code § 4-141)
5-3E-3: ENCOURAGING ANIMALS TO FIGHT:
It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight between
animals; or to encourage one animal to attack, pursue or annoy another animal,
except a noxious, nondomesticated animal; or to keep a house, pit or other
place used for fights between animals. (1989 Code § 4-142)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES
ARTICLE A.  GENERALLY
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Attempts To Commit An Offense
5-4A-2: Aiding In An Offense
5-4A-3: Penalty
5-4A-1: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself. (1989 Code § 10-101)
5-4A-2: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or misdemeanor, and
punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (1989 Code § 10-102)
5-4A-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable by fine or
imprisonment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 10-701)
ARTICLE B.  OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-4B-1: Petit Larceny Prohibited
5-4B-2: Receiving Stolen Property
5-4B-3: Injuring Automobiles And Other Vehicles
5-4B-4: Destroying Or Injuring Buildings, Other Property
5-4B-5: Placing Signs On Property Of Another
5-4B-6: Throwing Or Shooting At Persons Or Property
5-4B-7: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
5-4B-8: Intrusion Upon Land
5-4B-9: Illegal Entrance
5-4B-10: Throwing Advertising On Street
5-4B-11: Throwing Injurious Substances
5-4B-12: Injury To Plants And Trees
5-4B-13: Public Streets And Trees
5-4B-14: Trespass On Private Property Prohibited
5-4B-15: Parking On Property Of Another
5-4B-16: Fire Hydrant Interference
5-4B-17: Camping On Public Right Of Way
5-4B-1: PETIT LARCENY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not exceeding
fifty dollars ($50.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to
deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property
from the "person" of another.
   B.   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (1989 Code § 10-201)
5-4B-2: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
   A.   It is unlawful to buy or receive in any manner, upon any consideration,
any personal property of any value whatsoever that has been stolen, embezzled,
obtained by false pretenses or robbery, knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe the same to have been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or
robbery, or who conceals, withholds, or aids in concealing or withholding such
property from the owner.
   B.   Any person who, without making reasonable inquiry, to buy, receive,
conceal, withhold or aid in concealing or withholding any property which has
been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or robbery, or otherwise
feloniously obtained, under such circumstances as should cause such person to
make reasonable inquiry to ascertain that the person from whom such property
was bought or received had the legal right to sell or deliver it, shall be
presumed to have bought or received such property knowing it to have been
stolen or wrongfully obtained. This presumption may, however, be rebutted by
proof. (1989 Code § 10-202)
5-4B-3: INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter,
occupy, loiter in, take or drive away any automobile or other vehicle belonging
to another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (1989
Code § 10-203)
5-4B-4: DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS, OTHER PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear or molest any
structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (1989 Code § 10-204)
5-4B-5: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark,
write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill,
placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (1989
Code § 10-205)
5-4B-6: THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot any
stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light
or other property of another (whether public or private), except in case where
such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property. (1989
Code § 10-206)
5-4B-7: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him to consume or use the gas,
water or electricity without it passing through the meter or any other way so
as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to damage,
molest, tamper with or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or other part of
any public utility, including any telegraph or telephone system. (1989 Code §
10-207)
5-4B-8: INTRUSION UPON LAND:
It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of land
within the city without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or to
erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without such
license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the city, any hut, shanty, hovel or other structure
without authority of law or ordinance. (1989 Code § 10-208)
5-4B-9: ILLEGAL ENTRANCE:
It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into an
area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure is
public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or any
notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. It is
unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another after having been
given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or person in charge.
(1989 Code § 10-209)
5-4B-10: THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET:
It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular or other advertising matter. (1989 Code § 10-210)
5-4B-11: THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES:
It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw upon
the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive or
other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine, with
intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal. (1989 Code § 10-211)
5-4B-12: INJURY TO PLANTS AND TREES:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and without authority cut, pull,
pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the city, or wilfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or wilfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground. Any
person violating this section, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense. (1989 Code § 10-212)
5-4B-13: PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES:
   A.   Prohibited Acts And Activities: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the city;
      2.   Attach any guy wires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree;
      3.   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the city;
      4.   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the city; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
      5.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the city inspector so to do.
   B.   Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done under
the supervision of the street superintendent or city engineer. (1989 Code § 10-
213)
5-4B-14: TRESPASS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
be defined as follows:
    PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
   TRESPASS: Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the implied
consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. "Trespass" shall
also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in lawful
possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner or the
agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of the
premises. "Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer. The
provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons, including employees,
whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in
lawful possession of such premises, nor shall the provisions of this definition
apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such premises.
"Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of returning to private property
before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next business
day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this
section.
   B.   Trespass Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to trespass on
private property. (1989 Code § 10-214)
5-4B-15: PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge, or by
authority of law or ordinance. (1989 Code § 10-215)
5-4B-16: FIRE HYDRANT INTERFERENCE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the
city utility personnel or a member of the fire department, to open, turn on or
off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any
fire hydrant or stop cock belonging to the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire
hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in
any other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant. (1989 Code § 10-216)
5-4B-17: CAMPING ON PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Hours Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
make use of any public right of way or publicly- or municipally-owned property
within the city limits for the purpose of overnight lodging between the hours
of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., except as
authorized hereafter. For the purposes of this section, overnight lodging shall
include sleeping in a travel trailer, a camper, a vehicle of any kind, the
erection of a tent or other shelter, or the making of camp in the open.
   B.   Permit Required: The business manager may designate areas in the city
park for the purpose of overnight camping, and camping therein is hereby
authorized at any time upon the issuance of a permit by the chief of police or
his designate. Any person, firm or corporation seeking to make use of the
public park shall apply for a permit from the chief of police or his designate
and pay the permit fee in such amount as established by resolution of the city
council. (1989 Code § 10-217; amd. 2002 Code)
ARTICLE C.  OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
SECTION:
5-4C-1: Disturbing The Peace
5-4C-2: Insulting Signs, Literature Or Language
5-4C-3: Literature Or Language Ridiculing Religion
5-4C-4: Fireworks Regulated
5-4C-5: Storing Or Keeping Explosives
5-4C-6: Possession Of Weapons; Municipal Buildings
5-4C-7: Reckless Conduct
5-4C-8: Firearms Discharging
5-4C-9: Loud Noise Or Music Prohibited; Amplified Sound
5-4C-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      3.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      4.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      5.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or not
at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      6.   Holding an unlawful assembly of two (2) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      7.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by rude,
indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
      8.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      9.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      10.   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public. (1989 Code § 10-301)
5-4C-2: INSULTING SIGNS; LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the city to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common acceptance
is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the city, and which is
calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully use, utter, publish,
circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive or insulting language or
literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (1989 Code § 10-302)
5-4C-3: LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE RIDICULING RELIGION:
It is unlawful for any person to utter, publish, distribute or circulate any
literature or language within the corporate limits of the city that casts
profane ridicule on any deity, or any religion, which in its common acceptance
is calculated or where the natural consequence is to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault. (1989 Code § 10-303)
5-4C-4: FIREWORKS REGULATED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the term "fireworks"
shall have the meaning prescribed in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1622.
   B.   Day, Time Limitation: The purchase, sale or possession of fireworks
within the corporate limits of the city is hereby prohibited, except from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on July 4 of each year.
The use of fireworks within the corporate limits of the city is hereby
prohibited, except from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on July 4 of each year and except as further provided in this section.
(1989 Code § 10-304)
   C.   Permit Application; Fee: Application for the sale of fireworks within
the corporate limits of the city must be made at least ten (10) days in advance
of the proposed sale. Applications must be made to the city clerk and the
specific location of the stand must be given. The area must be inspected by the
fire chief or police chief to ensure that the location will not endanger the
lives or property of the citizens of the community and that such site will not
become a public nuisance. This inspection and site approval must be made before
the permit will be issued. A fee in such amount as established by resolution of
the city council is hereby levied on any person, group or organization involved
in the sale of fireworks within the corporate limits of the city for this
permit.
   D.   Public Displays; Permit Required: Nothing in this section shall be
construed as applying to the purchase, sale, possession or use of fireworks for
public display by holders of a permit for the public display to be conducted in
accordance with the rules and regulations herein specified. Public displays may
be performed only under competent supervision and after the persons or
organizations making such displays shall first apply for and receive a written
permit from the city council. Such applications shall be made at least ten (10)
days in advance of the proposed display, and shall show the location, who is to
shoot the show, and the name of the display distributor who is to furnish the
merchandise and shall bear the signed approval of the chief of police and the
fire chief. A fee in such amount as established by resolution of the city
council is hereby levied on any person, group, or organization involved in the
conducting of public displays of fireworks within the corporate limits of the
city. The city council may refund such amount after the program if the site is
cleared of all waste material from the program. This inspection may be made by
the police chief and given to the city clerk for action. The group may appeal
negative decisions to the city council. (1989 Code § 10-304; amd. 2002 Code)
5-4C-5: STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES:
It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the city any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance, without having first complied with the applicable laws of the state.
(1989 Code § 10-305)
5-4C-6: POSSESSION OF WEAPONS; MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS:
   A.   Prohibited: No person, other than persons excepted in subsection B of
this section, shall enter or remain upon any municipal building or facility on
which signs have been posted prohibiting the possession of any weapons on said
municipal building or facility while such person is in possession of any
weapon, including, but not limited to, any pistol, revolver, shotgun or rifle
(whether loaded or unloaded), or any dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife,
switchblade knife, spring-type knife, sword cane, knife having a blade which
opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring, or other
device in the handle of the knife, blackjack, loaded cane, billy club, hand
chain, metal knuckles or any other offensive weapon.
   B.   Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to
commissioned law enforcement officers. (Ord. 651, 3-19-1996)
   C.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be
punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 651, 3-19-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
5-4C-7: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in his
possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such actions consisting of creating a
situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great bodily harm to
another, and demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety of another
person. (1989 Code § 10-307)
5-4C-8: FIREARMS DISCHARGING:
No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the city except when doing
so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of
another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law or
ordinance. It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the city.
(1989 Code § 10-308)
5-4C-9: LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED; AMPLIFIED SOUND:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part of
the city by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated, any
contrivance whether electric or not, any motor vehicle, or any other device,
with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise or
words. However, this section shall not prohibit religious bodies from playing
chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music. (1989 Code § 10-309)
ARTICLE D.  OFFENSES AGAINST THE HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
SECTION:
5-4D-1: Public Intoxication And Drinking Prohibited
5-4D-2: Possession; Transportation Of Intoxicating Beverages
5-4D-3: Intoxicating Liquor Or Low Point Beer
5-4D-4: Narcotics And Dangerous Drugs Prohibited
5-4D-5: Prostitution
5-4D-6: Disorderly House
5-4D-7: Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
5-4D-8: Obscenity
5-4D-9: Vagrancy
5-4D-10: Curfew For Minors
5-4D-11: Sleeping In Public
5-4D-12: Begging Prohibited
5-4D-13: Gambling
5-4D-14: Harmful Deception
5-4D-15: False Or Bogus Checks
5-4D-16: Loitering
5-4D-17: Parental Accountability For Minors
5-4D-18: Truancy
5-4D-1: PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley or other public place in the city in a state of intoxication. It is
unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating liquor or beverage, or low point
beer, as defined by 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 163.1, upon or in any street,
alley or other public place within the city. It is unlawful to use, sell or
furnish to another any illegal drug or narcotic in any place in the city except
as legally prescribed by a physician.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, a state of intoxication means the
condition in which a person is under the influence of any intoxicating,
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, low point beer, or of any narcotic or drug,
to such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full physical or mental
power, or in which a person is a danger to himself or others. (1989 Code § 10-
401; amd. 2002 Code)
5-4D-2: POSSESSION; TRANSPORTATION OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
be in possession of any intoxicating alcoholic beverage while such person is
upon any public street, road or highway or in any public place within the city
limits.
   B.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to permit such person to be in possession of an
intoxicating alcoholic beverage.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any intoxicating beverage except
in the original container which shall not have been opened and from which the
original cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container
be in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear trunk or compartment shall
include the spare tire compartment in a station wagon or panel truck or any
outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver or any other person
in the vehicle while it is in motion.
   D.   For the purpose of this section, "intoxicating beverage" shall be as
defined in 37 Oklahoma Statutes. (1989 Code § 10-402)
5-4D-3: INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR LOW POINT BEER:
It is unlawful:
   A.   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating liquor or beverage, or low point beer of any kind
except as permitted by law;
   B.   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating liquor or
beverage or low point beer except as permitted by law, or to transport or in
any manner convey from place to place in the city any intoxicating liquor or
beverage, or low-point beer except as permitted by law;
   C.   To loiter in a place where intoxicating liquor or low-point beer is
sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
   D.   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place where
intoxicating liquor or low-point beer is sold, bartered, given away or
otherwise furnished in violation of law. (1989 Code § 10-403; amd. 2002 Code)
5-4D-4: NARCOTICS AND DANGEROUS DRUGS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana, opium, narcotics or
controlled dangerous drugs;
      2.   To use, have or possess marijuana, opium, narcotics or controlled
dangerous drugs upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or other
public place within the city;
      3.   To use marijuana, opium, narcotics or controlled dangerous drugs in
any place within the city except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed
to practice in the state;
      4.   To loiter about a place where marijuana, opium, narcotics or
controlled dangerous drugs are sold or furnished illegally; or
      5.   To sell or furnish illegally to another person marijuana, opium,
narcotics or controlled dangerous drugs.
   B.   The term "controlled dangerous drug" shall have the meaning prescribed
by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101 for "controlled dangerous substance".
(1989 Code § 10-404)
5-4D-5: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Be a prostitute;
      2.   Solicit, entice or procure another to commit or engage in any act of
prostitution;
      3.   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      4.   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution or obscenity;
      5.   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution;
      6.   Accept or receive the proceeds of any act of prostitution; or
      7.   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of prostitution
in the limits of city.
   B.   For the purposes of this section:
      1.   Prostitution is the giving of the body for sexual intercourse or
sodomy for hire or money;
      2.   "Soliciting for prostitutes" is the soliciting, inviting, inducing,
directing or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of
promoting prostitution;
      3.   "Letting premises for prostitution" is the granting of the right of
use or the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the
practice of prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with
that knowledge; and
      4.   "Letting premises for obscenity" is the granting of the right of use
or the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the
practice of obscenity or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge. (1989 Code § 10-405)
5-4D-6: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   Act Defined: A "disorderly house" means any structure or vehicle by
which the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed
by reason of the people therein committing or resorting to any of the following
acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of this city or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages, including beer containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume;
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or city ordinance, including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any state statute or city ordinance prohibiting
gambling. (1989 Code § 10-406)
   B.   Maintaining Or Leasing Disorderly House:
      1.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
      2.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house. (1989 Code §
10-407)
   C.   Residents And Visitors To Disorderly House: No person shall knowingly
reside in, enter into, or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for
violation of this section, the city shall have the burden to prove such
knowledge by direct evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This
section shall not apply to physicians or officers in the discharge of their
professional or official duties. (1989 Code § 10-408)
5-4D-7: NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Nudity: Appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity;
   B.   Improper Dress: Appear in any public place in the city in any
offensive, indecent or lewd dress; or
   C.   Indecent Exposure: Make an indecent public exposure of his or her
person. (1989 Code § 10-409)
5-4D-8: OBSCENITY:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: The matter or performance may be purchased or attended
on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a separate fee
for each item or performance.
DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material or
any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation, or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernible turgid state.
OBSCENE: That to the average person applying contemporary community standards:
      1.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest, i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity
or excretion; and
      2.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by 21 Oklahoma Statutes; and
      3.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages, including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bar tending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining. (1989 Code § 10-410)
   B.   Prohibited Obscene Conduct:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to:
         a.   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material; or
         b.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal; or
         c.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
         d.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to
public view:
            (1) His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region;
            (2) Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
            (3) Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof; or
            (4) Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
      2.   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of any
motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a projectionist,
assistant projectionist, usher or cashier, provided such person has no
financial interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person is not
acting as director or manager of the theater. (1989 Code § 10-411)
5-4D-9: VAGRANCY:
It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the city. For the purposes of
this section, a "vagrant" means any person who loiters or remains in or wanders
about, a public or private place for any of the following purposes:
   A.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
   B.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting prostitution
or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
   C.   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
   D.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
   E.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
   F.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms; provided, that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
   G.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband. (1989
Code § 10-412)
5-4D-10: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of twenty one (21) years who is in loco
parentis to a minor.
GUARDIAN: Any person or other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or place
to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business,
entertainment or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include, but not be
limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, cafe, theater,
drugstore, poolroom, shopping center and any other place devoted to amusement
or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the front or
immediate area of the above. (1989 Code § 10-413)
   B.   Minors; Curfew Exception: It is unlawful for any minor to remain,
wander, stroll or play in any public place on foot or to cruise about without a
set destination in any vehicle in, about or upon any public place in the city
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
Sunday night through Friday morning and between the hours of twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on Saturday and Sunday unless:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor; or
      3.   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation. (Ord. 10-06-15A,
6-15-2010)
   C.   Proprietor Responsibility: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly permit
or suffer the presence of minors between the hours of curfew designated in
subsection B of this section.
   D.   Parental Responsibility; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody or control of any
minor to suffer or permit or by inefficient control to allow such person to be
on any public place within the city between the hours of curfew designated in
subsection B of this section. The provisions of this section do not apply if:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed by his parent, guardian, custodian or other adult having the care and
custody of the minor; or
      3.   The parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a missing
person notification to the police department.
   E.   After Hours Functions: The city council may permit by resolution or
motion procedures for advance notice or registration with the city of special
events or functions sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or other
organizations which require minors to be out at a later time. The city council
may also prescribe the procedures for taking into custody minors found in
violation of this section. (1989 Code § 10-413)
5-4D-11: SLEEPING IN PUBLIC:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight and sunrise, to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or
on any property of another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or
person in charge of such place.
   B.   It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or about the premises of any
public or private school or other public building, or in or about a depot of a
public carrier. (1989 Code § 10-414)
5-4D-12: BEGGING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (1989 Code § 10-415)
5-4D-13: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
         a.   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on
or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
         b.   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
         c.   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
         d.   To knowingly permit his or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
      2.   It is unlawful and an offense against the city for any person to
play any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein
the element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks
or any other representatives of value. (1989 Code § 10-416)
   B.   Being About Vicinity Of Gambling: It is unlawful for any person to be
about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling, whether
by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or otherwise. (1989
Code § 10-417)
5-4D-14: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(1989 Code § 10-418)
5-4D-15: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money, property or
valuable thing of the value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less by means of any
false or bogus check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument
or spurious coin. The term "false or bogus check" shall include checks or
orders given for money or property which are not honored on account of
insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer
thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order,
payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit with,
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or
order shall be presented for payment within one hundred eighty (180) days after
same is delivered and accepted. (1989 Code § 10-419)
5-4D-16: LOITERING:
It is unlawful for any person without lawful reason, to loiter or loaf about
any public place, including, but not limited to, churches, convenience stores,
grocery stores, banks and service stations where, after due warning, said
person's presence hinders or unreasonably obstructs free passage of pedestrian
or vehicular traffic; or where said person's presence creates a danger of a
breach of the peace; or where said person's presence disturbs the comfort,
confidence or repose of citizens acting lawfully; or where said person's
presence causes an individual to fear for their safety. (Ord. 639, 11-16-1993)
5-4D-17: PARENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR MINORS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any parent having legal custody of a minor to
fail, neglect or refuse to require such minor to appear in municipal court for
an initial appearance, trial, hearing to explain nonperformance of a court
order, or for any other municipal court proceeding, or to pay fines or perform
community service or any other sentence imposed in the municipal court, where
the minor has been so directed or sentenced by the municipal court, the clerk
thereof or members of the police department, as the case may be. Upon
notification that a case is pending against a minor in their legal custody, it
shall be the duty of the parent to be aware of all scheduled court appearances
or directives in such case.
   B.   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this section shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 686, 8-17-1999; amd. 2002 Code)
5-4D-18: TRUANCY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of a child who is over the age of five (5) years and under the age of
eighteen (18) years, to neglect or refuse to cause or compel such child to
attend and comply with the rules of some public, private or other school.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any child who is over the age of sixteen (16)
years and under the age of eighteen (18) years, and who has not finished four
(4) years of high school work, to neglect or refuse to attend and comply with
the rules of some public, private or other school, or receive an education by
other means for the full term the schools of the district are in session.
   C.   Provided, that this section shall not apply:
      1.   If any such child is prevented from attending school by reason of
mental or physical ability, to be determined by the board of education of the
district upon a certificate of the school physician is available, a duly
licensed and practicing physician;
      2.   If any such child is excused from attendance at school, due to an
emergency, by the principal, teacher of the school in which the child is
enrolled, at the request of the parent, guardian, custodian or other person
having control of such child;
      3.   If any such child who has attained his or her sixteenth birthday is
excused from attending school by:
         a.   The school administrator of the school district where the child
attends school, and
         b.   The parent, guardian or custodian of the child. Provided,
further, that no child shall be excused from attending school by such joint
agreement between a school administrator and the parent, guardian or custodian
of the child unless and until it has been determined that such action is for
the best interest of the child and/or the community, and that said child shall
thereafter be under the supervision of the parent, guardian or custodian until
the child has reached the age of eighteen (18) years.
   D.   Any adult person convicted of violating any provision in this section
shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus costs, or by imprisonment for
not more than thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each
separate day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   E.   Any minor convicted of violating any provision in this section shall be
punished on the first offense by a fine of not more than fifty dollars
($50.00); on the second offense by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00); and on every subsequent offense by a fine of not more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00), plus costs. Each separate day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 713, 2-19-2002)
ARTICLE E.  OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
5-4E-1: Assault And Battery Prohibited
5-4E-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY PROHIBITED:
   A.   An "assault" is any intentional, wilful, or unlawful attempt or offer
with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   B.   A "battery" is any intentional, wilful or unlawful use of force or
violence upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with
another without consent.
   C.   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the city. Any person committing an assault or an assault
and battery within the jurisdiction of the city, shall be guilty of an offense.
(1989 Code § 10-501)
ARTICLE F.  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
5-4F-1: Resisting An Officer
5-4F-2: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
5-4F-3: Assault Or Battery Upon Officer
5-4F-4: Rescuing Prisoners
5-4F-5: Escape Of Prisoners
5-4F-6: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
5-4F-7: False Alarms
5-4F-8: False Representation To Officer
5-4F-9: Removal Of Barricades
5-4F-10: Resisting Public Officials
5-4F-1: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
   A.   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere
with the police chief or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his official duties
within the limits of the city.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to assist
such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an arrest
or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or in front
of an approaching officer.
   C.   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
   D.   The words "obstruction of" shall, in addition to their common meaning,
include:
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and before he
is under arrest; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer. (1989 Code § 10-601)
5-4F-2: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
   A.   An officer of the city making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the city or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon person or persons
to assist him in making such arrest, executing such process or suppressing such
riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so. (1989 Code § 10-602)
5-4F-3: ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his duties. (1989 Code § 10-603)
5-4F-4: RESCUING PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty, rescue
or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any officer or
employee of the city having legal custody of the same or from the city jail or
other place of confinement by the city, or to assist such prisoner in any
manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after conviction,
including escape from a vehicle of confinement. (1989 Code § 10-604)
5-4F-5: ESCAPE OF PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person confined in the city jail or other place of
confinement by the city, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the city in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the city, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody. (1989 Code § 10-605)
5-4F-6: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the city, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so. (1989
Code § 10-606)
5-4F-7: FALSE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or police
department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the fire
department or police department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run. (1989 Code § 10-607)
5-4F-8: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the city government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the city. (1989 Code § 10-608)
5-4F-9: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (1989 Code § 10-609)
5-4F-10: RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
   A.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the city in
the discharge of his official duties;
   B.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
   C.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (1989 Code §
10-610)
ARTICLE G.  OFFENSES RELATED TO SMOKING
SECTION:
5-4G-1: Possession Of Lighted Tobacco
5-4G-2: General Provisions
5-4G-3: Posting Smoking Signs Or Decals
5-4G-4: Penalty
5-4G-1: POSSESSION OF LIGHTED TOBACCO:
   A.   The possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public nuisance and
dangerous to public health and is hereby prohibited when such possession is in
any indoor place used by or open to the public, in any enclosed indoor area
where individuals other than employees are invited or permitted, in any indoor
workplace, within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance, exit or air intake of any
such places, or in any vehicle providing public transportation, except where
specifically allowed by law.
   B.   As used in this article, "indoor workplace" means any indoor place of
employment or employment type service for or at the request of another
individual or individuals, or any public or private entity, whether part time
or full time and whether for compensation or not. Such services shall include,
without limitation, any services performed by an owner, employee, independent
contractor, agent, partner, proprietor, manager, officer, director, apprentice,
trainee, associate, servant or volunteer. An indoor workplace includes work
areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee
cafeterias, hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees, and all
space between a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed by
walls or windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows,
stairways, or the like. The provisions of this article shall apply to such
indoor workplace at any given time, whether or not work is being performed.
   C.   An employer not otherwise restricted from doing so may elect to provide
smoking rooms where no work is performed except for cleaning and maintenance
during the time the room is not in use for smoking, provided each smoking room
is fully enclosed, exhausted directly to the outside with no air from the
smoking place circulated to any nonsmoking area, under negative air pressure so
that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area when a door to an
adjacent nonsmoking area is opened, and the air from the smoking space is not
exhausted within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance, exit or air intake. (Ord.
727, 1-20-2004)
5-4G-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Smoking is permitted in the following space if: 1) the smoking space
occupies the entire building or 2) if the smoking space shares space in the
building with any indoor public places or indoor workplaces in which smoking is
prohibited, is fully enclosed, exhausted directly to the outside with no air
from the smoking space circulated to any nonsmoking area within the building,
and under negative air pressure so that no smoke can drift or circulate into a
nonsmoking area within the building when a door to an adjacent nonsmoking area
is opened, and the air from the smoking space is not exhausted within fifteen
feet (15') of any entrance, exit or air intake:
      1.   The room or rooms where licensed charitable bingo games are being
operated, but only during the hours of operation of such games;
      2.   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of guestrooms at a hotel or other
lodging establishment;
      3.   Retail tobacco stores predominantly engaged in the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental and in which no food or beverage is sold or served for consumption
on the premises;
      4.   Workplaces where only the owner or operator of the workplace, or the
immediate family of the owner or operator, performs any work in the workplace,
and the workplace has only incidental public access. "Incidental public access"
means that a place of business has only an occasional person, who is not an
employee, present at the business to transact business or make a delivery. It
does not include businesses that depend on walk in customers for any part of
their business;
      5.   Workplaces occupied exclusively by one or more smokers, if the
workplace has only incidental public access;
      6.   Private offices occupied exclusively by one or more smokers;
      7.   Workplaces within private residences, except that smoking shall not
be allowed inside any private residence that is used as a licensed childcare
facility during hours of operation;
      8.   Medical research or treatment centers, if smoking is integral to the
research or treatment;
      9.   A facility operated by a post or organization of past or present
members of the armed forces of the United States which is exempt from taxation
pursuant to section 501(c)(19) of the internal revenue code, 26 USC, section
501(c)(19), when such a facility is utilized exclusively by its members and
their families and for the conduct of post or organization nonprofit operations
except during an event or activity which is open to the public;
      10.   Any outdoor seating area of a restaurant; provided, smoking shall
not be allowed within fifteen feet (15') of any exterior public doorway or any
air intake of the restaurant;
      11.   A stand alone bar, stand alone tavern, or cigar bar that: a)
derives more than sixty percent (60%) of its gross receipts, subject to
verification by competent authority, from the sale of alcoholic beverages and
low point beer, b) admits no person under twenty one (21) years of age except
for members of a musical band employed or hired as provided in paragraph 2 of
subsection B of section 537 of title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes and c) is not
located within, and does not share any common entryway or common indoor area
with, any other enclosed indoor workplace, including a restaurant; and
      12.   Until March 1, 2006, restaurants (any eating establishment
regardless of seating capacity) may have designated smoking areas or may be
designated as being a totally nonsmoking area. Beginning March 1, 2006,
restaurants shall be totally nonsmoking or may provide nonsmoking areas and
designated smoking rooms. Food and beverage may be served in such designated
smoking rooms, which shall be in a location that is fully enclosed, directly
exhausted to the outside, under negative air pressure so smoke cannot escape
when a door is opened, and no air is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of the
building. No exhaust from such room shall be located within twenty five feet
(25') of any entrance, exit or air intake. Such room shall be subject to
verification for compliance with the provisions of this subsection A12 by the
state department of health. (Ord. 727, 1-20-2004)
5-4G-3: POSTING SMOKING SIGNS OR DECALS:
   A.   The person who owns or operates a place where smoking or tobacco is
prohibited by law shall be responsible for posting a sign or decal, at least
four inches by two inches (4" x 2") in size, at each entrance to the building
indicating that the place is smoke free or tobacco free.
   B.   Responsibility for posting signs or decals shall be as follows:
      1.   In privately owned facilities, the owner or lessee, if a lessee is
in possession of the facilities, shall be responsible;
      2.   In corporately owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of
the facility involved shall be responsible; and
      3.   In publicly owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of the
facility shall be responsible. (Ord. 727, 1-20-2004)
5-4G-4: PENALTY:
Any person who knowingly violates this article is guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 727, 1-20-
2004)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC 1
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS; ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Traffic Code Controlling
6-1-3: Definitions
6-1-4: Adoption Of State Traffic Code
6-1-5: Obedience To Traffic Code
6-1-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 2 of this code for court provisions applicable
  to traffic violations.
6-1-1: TITLE:
This title and all amendments hereto may be cited or referred to as THE TRAFFIC
CODE, CITY OF SAYRE, and may so appear upon all official documents, records or
instruments. (1989 Code § 15-101)
6-1-2: TRAFFIC CODE CONTROLLING:
Except as specifically provided by law as set forth in this title, the traffic
code shall be controlling and apply to the use of city streets, alleys,
thoroughfares, parks, parkways, public parking lots, school driveways, streets,
parking lots, or any other public right of way or municipally-owned land, by
pedestrians and by vehicles of every kind whether self-propelled or otherwise
and whether moving or at rest. (1989 Code § 15-102)
6-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein:
ALLEY: Any narrow highway ordinarily located in the interior portion of platted
blocks and ordinarily used for service or delivery purposes at the rear of
stores, dwellings or buildings.
AMBULANCE: A motor vehicle constructed, reconstructed or arranged for the
purpose of transporting ill, sick or injured persons.
BICYCLE: A device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels.
BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons, and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to, and including a highway if
there are buildings within six hundred feet (600') of the highway in use for
business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks
or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at
least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred feet
(300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
CENTER LANE: Any clearly marked center lane. If the center lane is not marked
and no cars are parked on the roadway, then the center lane is equally
distanced between the curbs or travelled portion of the roadway. In the event a
vehicle or vehicles are parked on one side of the roadway only, then the center
lane is equally distanced from the side of the parked vehicle or vehicles
toward the street and curb on the opposite roadway. If vehicles be parked on
each side of the roadway, then the center lane is equally distanced from the
edges of the parked vehicles.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of
access to or from the same except at such points only and in such manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such highway,
street or roadway.
CROSSWALK: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs; or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway. "Crosswalk" also means any portion of a roadway at an
intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
DOUBLE PARK: Parking or stopping a vehicle on the roadway side of another
vehicle already parked adjacent to the edge or curbing of the roadway.
DRIVER OR OPERATOR: A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseeable occurrence of temporary duration causing or
resulting in an abnormal increase in traffic volume, cessation or stoppage of
traffic movement, or creation of conditions hazardous to normal traffic
movement, including fire, storm, accident, riot, or spontaneous assembly of
large numbers of pedestrians in such a manner as to impede the flow of traffic.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the fire department, police vehicles and
ambulances.
HIGHWAY: See definition of Street Or Highway.
INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadway
of two (2) streets, which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets join
at any other angle, may come in conflict; or
   B.   Where a street includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an
intersecting street, shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting street also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such streets shall be
regarded as separate intersections.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LIMIT LINES: Boundaries of parking areas, loading zones and nontraffic areas
and lines indicating the proper place for stopping where stops are required.
LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: See definition of Controlled Access Highway.
LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or material. A freight
curb loading zone is a loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of freight; a passenger curb loading zone is a loading
zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of
passengers.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
MOTORCYCLE, MOTOR SCOOTER AND MOTOR BICYCLE: A motor vehicle, other than a
tractor, having a seat or saddle for the use of the driver and designed to
travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but
excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME: Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean central
standard time, or daylight savings time, as may be in current use in the city.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of a public body
or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers, providing such loading and unloading is in
an authorized place.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the municipal police department, or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY: A way or place in private ownership or leading to
property in private ownership and used for vehicular traffic by the owner and
those having express or implied permission from the owner.
PUBLIC PARKING LOT: A parking lot or right of way dedicated to public use or
owned by the state or a political subdivision thereof.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulders. In the event a street includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway, separately, but not to all such roadways,
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected, or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times, while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL ZONE: All streets or portions of streets immediately adjacent to a
school, or school ground, where the same is adjacent and for a distance of
three hundred feet (300') in each direction.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or at lateral lines
of the roadway and adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: Any stopping of a vehicle whether occupied or not.
STOP: When required, shall mean the complete cessation from movement.
STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
traffic signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY: A street or boulevard, or highway or portion
thereof, at the entrances to which:
   A.   Vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to come to a full stop before entering or crossing; and
   B.   Stop signs are erected as provided in this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances,
either singularly or together, while using any highway or street for purpose of
travel.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR SIGNALS: Any device legally authorized and used for
the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
U-TURN: A turn by which a vehicle reverses its course of travel on the same
street.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is, or may
be, transported, or drawn, upon a highway or street, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1989 Code §
15-103)
6-1-4: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE:
The provisions of the state motor vehicle code, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-
101 et seq., and the rules of the road, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 10-101 et
seq., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and are
enforceable by the city within the city limits as fully as if set out at length
herein. (1989 Code § 15-104)
6-1-5: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE:
   A.   It is an offense against the city for any person to do any act
forbidden or to fail to perform any act required by this title.
   B.   It is an offense against the city for the parent of any child or for
the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this title.
   C.   It is an offense for any person to authorize or knowingly to permit any
vehicle registered in his or her name to be driven or to stand or to be parked
in violation of any of the provisions of this title. (1989 Code § 15-1401)
6-1-6: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided in this code, any person violating any of the
provisions of this title containing the traffic laws of the city, or who
performs any unlawful act as defined in this title, or who fails to perform any
act required by this title, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined or punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 15-1402)
ARTICLE A.  IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-1A-1: Purpose And Effect
6-1A-2: Place Of Impoundment
6-1A-3: Duration
6-1A-4: Authority To Impound
6-1A-5: Disabled Vehicles
6-1A-6: Vehicles On Bridge
6-1A-7: Arrest And Detention Of Driver
6-1A-8: Vehicle Constituting Traffic Hazard
6-1A-9: Illegal Trespass By Vehicle
6-1A-10: Overtime Parking
6-1A-11: Blocking Fire Exits Or Hydrants
6-1A-12: Parking In Intersection
6-1A-13: Stolen Vehicles; Recovery By Police
6-1A-14: Outstanding Traffic Citations
6-1A-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT:
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this article
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (1989 Code § 15-1301)
6-1A-2: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this article shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the city
and to no other place. (1989 Code § 15-1302)
6-1A-3: DURATION:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority
of this article shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release
is received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau or other proper
police officer.
   B.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
   C.   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until all
fines and costs due the city because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid. (1989 Code § 15-1303)
6-1A-4: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this article to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this article. (1989 Code § 15-1304)
6-1A-5: DISABLED VEHICLES:
A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   A.   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   B.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(1989 Code § 15-1305)
6-1A-6: VEHICLES ON BRIDGE:
An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any tube
or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or a hazard,
may be impounded. (1989 Code § 15-1306)
6-1A-7: ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER:
Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest
and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which leaves
or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle may be
impounded. (1989 Code § 15-1307)
6-1A-8: VEHICLE CONSTITUTING TRAFFIC HAZARD:
A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic shall be impounded. (1989 Code § 15-1308)
6-1A-9: ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE:
   A.   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this title may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   B.   If a violation of the provisions of this title occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner's or legal occupant's property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   C.   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this title
have been violated, the police department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage. (1989 Code § 15-1309)
6-1A-10: OVERTIME PARKING:
Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in excess
of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this title, regarding more than twenty four (24)
hours, shall be impounded. (1989 Code § 15-1310)
6-1A-11: BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS:
Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded. (1989 Code § 15-1311)
6-1A-12: PARKING IN INTERSECTION:
Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing. (1989 Code § 15-
1312)
6-1A-13: STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE:
   A.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered owner
cannot be found within a reasonable time, not exceeding one hour, or cannot be
determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in the
vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen cars,
the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of impoundment and
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police department.
   B.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one hour
from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified the vehicle
may be impounded. (1989 Code § 15-1313)
6-1A-14: OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
Any vehicle for which two (2) or more citations have been issued, for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this title. (1989 Code § 15-1314)
CHAPTER 2
OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES, GENERALLY
SECTION:
6-2-1: Enforcement Of Traffic Laws; Traffic Control Division
6-2-2: Direction Of Traffic By Hand Or Voice
6-2-3: Direction Of Traffic By Unauthorized Persons
6-2-4: Obedience To Police And Fire Officials
6-2-5: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
6-2-6: Push Carts, Riding Animals Or Driving Animal Drawn-Vehicles; Compliance
6-2-7: Coasters, Rollerskates And Similar Devices Restricted
6-2-8: Public Officers, Employees To Obey Traffic Regulations
6-2-9: Persons Working On Streets Exempted
6-2-10: Maintenance And Construction Zones
6-2-11: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-2-12: Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
6-2-13: Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
6-2-14: Crossing Fire Hose
6-2-15: Possession Of Valid Driver's License Required
6-2-16: Operation Of Vehicle On Invalid License Prohibited
6-2-17: State Vehicle License Required
6-2-18: Permitting Unauthorized Person To Drive Prohibited
6-2-19: Accidents; Duty To Stop; Leaving Scene Of Accident
6-2-20: Issuance Of Citation Tags
6-2-21: Failure To Obey Citation
6-2-22: Traffic Citations Attached To Parked Vehicle
6-2-23: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
6-2-24: Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citations
6-2-25: Disposition And Records Of Citations, Warrants And Complaints
6-2-26: Court Records; Abstract Sent To State
6-2-27: Eluding Police Officer Prohibited
6-2-28: Insurance Or Certificate Required
6-2-29: Seat Belts And Child Passenger Restraints Required
6-2-1: ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS; TRAFFIC CONTROL DIVISION:
It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department or any officers
that are assigned by the chief of police to enforce all street traffic laws of
this city and all the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this
city. Officers of the department shall make arrests for traffic violations,
investigate accidents and cooperate with other officers in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the department
by this title and any other traffic ordinances of this city. (1989 Code § 15-
201)
6-2-2: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY HAND OR VOICE:
   A.   Officers of the police department or any officers designated by the
chief of police are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   B.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity. (1989 Code § 15-202)
6-2-3: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS:
No unauthorized person shall direct or attempt to direct traffic, except in
case of emergency where no officer is present. (1989 Code § 15-203)
6-2-4: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official. (1989 Code § 15-204)
6-2-5: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   The city manager, subject to any directions which the council may give
by motion or resolution, is empowered to adopt regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of this city and to make
temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than ninety (90) days.
   B.   The city manager may have traffic-control devices tested under actual
conditions of traffic. (1989 Code § 15-205)
6-2-6: PUSH CARTS, RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES; COMPLIANCE:
Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(1989 Code § 15-206)
6-2-7: COASTERS, ROLLERSKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED:
No person upon rollerskates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such person shall be subject to
all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon
any street while set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinances of this
city. (1989 Code § 15-207)
6-2-8: PUBLIC OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States government, any state, county, city
or governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles. It is unlawful
for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this title, except as
otherwise permitted in this title by state statute. This title shall not apply
to the military forces of the United States and organizations of the national
guard when performing any military duty. (1989 Code § 15-208)
6-2-9: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS EXEMPTED:
Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title, except those
relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not apply to
persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in
work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and other
equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair of
public utilities. All street or highway and public utility operations shall be
protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flag persons. The
provisions of this title shall apply to any of the persons and vehicles
exempted by this section when traveling to and from such work. (1989 Code § 15-
209)
6-2-10: MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the streets
of the city, and city personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the city clerk, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance or
construction. In exercising this authority, the appropriate personnel,
contractor or utility company shall erect or cause to be erected proper control
devices and barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been
closed to traffic.
   B.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section and traffic-control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over or around such traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
persons entering the closed area or zone for the protection of lives or
property. Persons having their places of residence or places of business within
the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their
own risk.
   C.   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the city personnel,
contractor or utility company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected,
traffic-control devices to warn and guide the public. Every person using the
street shall obey all signs, signals, markings, flag persons or other traffic-
control devices which are placed to regulate, control and guide traffic through
the construction or maintenance area. (1989 Code § 15-210)
6-2-11: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in subsection B of this section,
but subject to the conditions stated in subsection C and D of this section.
   B.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may do any of the
following when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or
ordinance, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      3.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as life or property is not
endangered; or
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   C.   The exemptions granted in this subsection B of this section to an
authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such
vehicle is making use of audible and visual signals as required by law, except
that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1989 Code §
15-211)
6-2-12: APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (1989 Code § 15-212)
6-2-13: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED:
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1989 Code § 15-213)
6-2-14: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department
official in command. (1989 Code § 15-214)
6-2-15: POSSESSION OF VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the highways without
having in his possession at all times, when operating such motor vehicle, an
unrevoked or unsuspended operator's or chauffeur's license as required by the
laws of the state, unless such person is specifically exempted from such laws
by the provisions thereof. No person charged with violating this section shall
be convicted if he produces in court an operator's or chauffeur's license
issued to him and valid at the time of his arrest.
   B.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner in violation of
any restriction that may be imposed in a restricted license issued to him with
respect to the type of, or special mechanical control devices required on a
motor vehicle or any other restriction applicable to the licensee as the state
may determine. (1989 Code § 15-215)
6-2-16: OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON INVALID LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle when his privilege to do so is
cancelled, suspended, revoked or denied. Any person convicted of violating this
section shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each act of driving on the streets or highways as
prohibited by this section shall constitute a separate offense. (1989 Code §
15-216)
6-2-17: STATE VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of the city
without a state vehicle license as may be required by law, or to fail to
display the state vehicle license as may be required by law. (1989 Code § 15-
217)
6-2-18: PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE PROHIBITED:
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or under
his control to be driven upon any highway by any person who is not authorized
under the provisions of the laws of the state to operate such vehicle. (1989
Code § 15-218)
6-2-19: ACCIDENTS; DUTY TO STOP; LEAVING SCENE OF ACCIDENT:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto
as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he has
given his name, address and the registration of his vehicle and shall upon
request exhibit his driver's license to the person injured or the driver or
occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that
this treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person.
Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is apparent
that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a
police officer or to the police department. If a driver makes out a written
report of the accident in the office of the police department as soon as
practicable after the accident, which report is to be forwarded to the state
department of public safety in accordance with state law, the driver shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section.
   C.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 15-219)
6-2-20: ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS:
   A.   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this title by delivering citation tags to violators or,
in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of
this title, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred. Such citation tags, among other things, shall bear briefly
the charge, shall bear the registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct
the violator to present the tag at the police station or other designated place
within five (5) days or such other reasonable time as may be specified thereon.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
   C.   The city manager may require that the police officers use citation tags
furnished by the finance department and that such tags are serially numbered,
and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags. (1989 Code § 15-
220)
6-2-21: FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his written promise to
appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation regardless
of the disposition of the charge for which citation was originally issued.
(1989 Code § 15-221)
6-2-22: TRAFFIC CITATIONS ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE:
If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the clerk of
the municipal court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and
warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five
(5) days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2) or
more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the
traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued
without sending the letter provided in this section. (1989 Code § 15-222)
6-2-23: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   B.   The presumption in subsection A of this section shall apply only when
the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed. (1989 Code § 15-
223)
6-2-24: ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any
traffic citation in any manner other than as provided by this chapter. (1989
Code § 15-224)
6-2-25: DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF CITATIONS, WARRANTS AND COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of this city shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to
be delivered to the municipal court.
   B.   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
   C.   The chief of police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by
the municipal court which are delivered to the police department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   D.   No member of the police department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter or deface a traffic citation, or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint or
warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter. (1989 Code § 15-
225)
6-2-26: COURT RECORDS; ABSTRACT SENT TO STATE:
   A.   The municipal judge shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court or its traffic violations bureau in reference
thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
   B.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this chapter or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state department of public safety a
certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   C.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state department
of public safety and shall include the name and address of the party charged,
the number of his operator's or chauffeur's license, the registration number of
the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea,
the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine or
forfeiture. (1989 Code § 15-226)
6-2-27: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED:
No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible signal
directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall wilfully increase
his speed or extinguish his lights or in any other manner attempt to or
actually elude such law enforcement officer. A "visual or audible signal" for
the purpose of this section means a red light and a siren from a law
enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to
be an official police, sheriff or highway patrol car. (1989 Code § 15-227)
6-2-28: INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating the
vehicle within the city's boundaries, shall carry in such vehicle at all times
a current owner's security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been used by the state department of public safety,
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   B.   The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or operator's
security verification form or an equivalent form from the department during
operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such form for
vehicle registration purposes:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the department of public
safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self- insurance or fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the interstate commerce commission, or the Oklahoma corporation commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
    COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47
Oklahoma Statutes article VI, chapter 7 and section 7-606.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor vehicle not
owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204.
   SECURITY: 1. A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a
policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-503, having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the state board for property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
compulsory insurance law of the state of Oklahoma.
   D.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall, while
operating or using such vehicle within the city's boundaries, carry either an
operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a carrier,
provided the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an equivalent
form issued by the department of public safety, reflecting liability coverage.
   E.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department upon request of any peace officer of the department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   F.   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   G.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   H.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk shall forward an abstract to the state department of public safety within
ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court. (1989 Code § 15-228)
6-2-29: SEAT BELTS AND CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Safety Belt System Required; Exception; Penalty:
      1.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated
in this city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to
federal motor vehicle safety standard 208. For the purposes of this section,
"passenger car" shall mean "automobile" as defined in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1-103.1, except that "passenger car" shall not include trucks, pickup
trucks, truck-tractors, recreational vehicles, vans, motorcycles or motorized
bicycles.
      2.   Subsection A1 of this section shall not apply to an operator or
passenger of a passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a
written verification from a physician licensed in this state that he is unable
to wear a safety belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of such
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety seat belt
system. Subsection A1 of this section  shall not apply to an operator of a
motor vehicle who is a route carrier of the U.S. postal service.
      3.   No law enforcement officer shall make routine stops of motorists for
the purpose of enforcing subsection A1 of this section. Any person convicted of
violating subsection A1 of this section shall be punished by a maximum fine of
ten dollars ($10.00), or the maximum allowed by state law, and court costs.
(1989 Code § 15-229; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Child Passenger Restraint System; Exemptions:
      1.   Every driver, when transporting a child under four (4) years of age
weighing sixty (60) pounds or less in a motor vehicle operated on the roadways,
streets, or highways of this state, shall provide for the protection of said
child by properly using a child passenger restraint system. For purposes of
this subsection, "child passenger restraint system" means an infant or child
passenger restraint system which meets the federal standards as set by 49 CFR
section 571.213.
      2.   Children at least four (4) years of age but younger than thirteen
(13) years of age shall be protected by use of a child passenger restraint
system or a seat belt.
      3.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to:
         a.   A nonresident driver transporting a child in this state;
         b.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
         c.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
         d.   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seat belts in the vehicle are
in use; and
         e.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable
to be placed in such devices.
      4.   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if
it appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of this
subsection and to give an oral warning to said driver. The warning shall advise
the driver of the possible danger to children resulting from the failure to
install or use a child passenger restraint system or set belts in the motor
vehicle. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT; INSPECTION
SECTION:
6-3-1: Vehicles Injurious To Streets Prohibited
6-3-2: Obstructive And Dangerous Vehicles
6-3-3: Equipment Required
6-3-4: Mufflers, Cut-Outs
6-3-5: Width, Height, Length And Load
6-3-1: VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS PROHIBITED:
No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street, shall be driven or moved on any street. (1989 Code § 15-301)
6-3-2: OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES:
No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
chief of police and in accordance with the terms of such permit. (1989 Code §
15-302)
6-3-3: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped as
required by law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the city
which is not equipped as required by law. It is unlawful to fail to use such
equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner prohibited by
law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law
upon a street of the city. (1989 Code § 15-303)
6-3-4: MUFFLERS, CUT-OUTS:
No motor vehicles with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the city unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler. No muffler cut-out or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be
used on any motor vehicle while operating within the city, except that exhaust
whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles. (1989 Code § 15-304)
6-3-5: WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH AND LOAD:
No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the chief of
police. (1989 Code § 15-305)
CHAPTER 4
SPEEDING
SECTION:
6-4-1: Speed Limits, Generally
6-4-2: School Zones
6-4-3: Reasonable And Proper Speed Required
6-4-4: Minimum Speed Requirements; Exception
6-4-5: Obedience To Limits Required
6-4-1: SPEED LIMITS, GENERALLY:
   A.   Specified; Exceptions: No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed
than twenty five (25) miles per hour upon any street or highway within the city
except:
      1.   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this title;
      2.   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted; or
      3.   When a different speed limit is established in this title.
   B.   Lower, Higher Limits; Authority Of City Council: The city council, by
motion or resolution, may reduce or increase the speed limits provided in this
title, and when it does so, appropriate signs shall be placed on such streets
or parts of streets indicating the lower or higher speed limit. (1989 Code §
15-401)
6-4-2: SCHOOL ZONES:
No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than fifteen (15) miles per hour
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on
any street adjacent to any school in a designated school zone on days when
school is in session, unless a different speed limit or time is otherwise
designated and posted. (1989 Code § 15-402)
6-4-3: REASONABLE AND PROPER SPEED REQUIRED:
No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater or less than is reasonable
or prudent under the conditions then existing, taking into consideration among
other things, the conditions of the vehicle, the traffic, roadway surface or
width, the amount of light or darkness, the presence of pedestrians in or near
the roadways, and the obstruction of views. No person shall drive any vehicle
at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within the
assured clear distance ahead. (1989 Code § 15-403)
6-4-4: MINIMUM SPEED REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION:
No vehicle shall be driven at such an unreasonably slow speed in relation to
the effective maximum speed allowed as to constitute a hazard or to interfere
with the normal movement of other traffic, except when the slow speed is
unavoidable. (1989 Code § 15-404)
6-4-5: OBEDIENCE TO LIMITS REQUIRED:
Where official signs and markings give notice of both maximum and minimum speed
limits in effect on any street, no vehicle shall be driven at rates in excess
of the maximum nor slower than the minimum, except as required by an authorized
officer or in obedience to posted official signs. (1989 Code § 15-405)
CHAPTER 5
DRIVING, OVERTAKING, PASSING
SECTION:
6-5-1: Changing Lanes
6-5-2: Driving On Right Side Required; Exceptions
6-5-3: Overtaking On Right; When Permitted
6-5-4: Overtaking On Left
6-5-5: Limitations On Overtaking On Left; Exception
6-5-6: Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Directions
6-5-7: One-Way Roadways And Rotary Traffic Islands
6-5-8: Following Too Closely
6-5-9: No Passing Zones
6-5-10: Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession Prohibited; Exceptions
6-5-11: Drivers In Procession
6-5-12: Funeral Processions To Be Identified
6-5-13: Overtaking And Passing In School Zones
6-5-14: Overtaking And Passing School Bus
6-5-15: School Bus Requirements
6-5-16: Driving On Sidewalk Prohibited; Exception
6-5-17: Limitations On Backing Vehicle
6-5-18: Motorcycles, Bicycles And Motor Scooters
6-5-19: Motorcycle Equipment, Headgear
6-5-20: Motorcycles And Motor Scooters; Speed Limitation
6-5-21: Clinging To Vehicles Prohibited
6-5-22: Entering And Leaving Controlled Access Highways
6-5-23: Reckless Driving
6-5-24: Careless Or Negligent Driving, Stopping Or Parking
6-5-25: Careful And Prudent Manner Of Operation
6-5-26: Under The Influence Of Drugs
6-5-27: Under The Influence Of Alcohol
6-5-28: Transporting Of Low-Point Beer
6-5-29: Unlawful Transportation Of Intoxicating Beverage
6-5-30: Attention To Driving Required
6-5-31: Speed Contest Prohibited
6-5-32: Permits Required For Parades And Processions
6-5-33: Driving Through Safety Zone
6-5-34: Starting Parked Vehicle
6-5-35: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
6-5-36: Obstructions To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
6-5-37: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
6-5-38: Unlawful Riding
6-5-39: Railroad Trains Not To Block Streets
6-5-40: Private Service Drives
6-5-41: Truck Driving And Route Restrictions
6-5-42: Loads On Vehicles
6-5-43: Approaching Or Entering Intersection
6-5-44: Turning Left At Intersection
6-5-45: Approaching Yield Right Of Way Sign
6-5-46: Entering Through Highway
6-5-47: Facing Stop, Slow, Warning Or Caution Signal
6-5-48: Through Streets
6-5-49: Intersections Where Stop Or Yield Required
6-5-50: Stop Or Yield Sign Construction And Placement
6-5-51: Entering Stop Intersection
6-5-52: Entering Yield Intersection
6-5-53: Entering Highway From Private Road Or Driveway
6-5-54: Entering Traffic From Parking
6-5-55: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
6-5-56: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
6-5-57: Obedience To Signal Indicating Approach Of Train
6-5-58: Certain Vehicles Stop At Railroad Grade Crossings
6-5-1: CHANGING LANES:
   A.   Two Lane Roadway: Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or
more clearly marked lanes for traffic, in addition to all other rules
consistent with this subsection, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practical entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from the lane
until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety and has signalled for a change of course.
   B.   Unmarked Traffic Lanes: Where streets or roadways do not have marked
traffic lanes, vehicles shall nevertheless keep in line or follow a straight
course as nearly as practical and shall not weave in and out or turn from side
to side unnecessarily. Vehicles shall move to the right or left only as
necessary in slowing or stopping adjacent to the curb, in passing slow moving
vehicles or making a proper approach for a turn, and this only after the driver
has first ascertained that such movement can be made safely and has signalled
for a change of course.
   C.   Three Lane Roadway: Upon a roadway which has been divided into three
(3) lanes, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and
such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation
for a left turn, or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively
to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted
to give notice of such allocation.
   D.   Slow Moving Traffic Signs: Official signs may be erected directing slow
moving traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used
by traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway. Drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(1989 Code § 15-501)
6-5-2: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven to the
right of the center of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; and
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   B.   All vehicles shall keep to the right roadway on all streets or highways
which are divided into two (2) roadways.
   C.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (1989 Code § 15-502)
6-5-3: OVERTAKING ON RIGHT; WHEN PERMITTED:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      1.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      2.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction; or
      3.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway. (1989 Code § 15-503)
6-5-4: OVERTAKING ON LEFT:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the street or roadway until safely clear of
the overtaken vehicle.
   B.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1989 Code § 15-504)
6-5-5: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON LEFT; EXCEPTION:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the street
or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the completion of the
overtaking and passing without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every instance the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the
roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
   B.   No vehicle at any time shall be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      1.   When approaching the crest of a grade, or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver's view along the street or highway is obstructed;
or
      2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any bridge,
viaduct or tunnel or when approaching within fifty feet (50') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing. (1989 Code § 15-505)
6-5-6: PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS:
Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to
the right. Upon roadways having a width for not more than one line of traffic
in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2)
the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1989 Code §
15-506)
6-5-7: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   A.   City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council by
motion or resolution, may designate any road, street, alley or highway, or any
separate roadway under their jurisdiction, for one-way traffic and shall cause
appropriate signs giving notice thereof, to be erected.
   B.   Whenever the city manager designates any street or alley or part
thereof as a one-way street or alley, the city manager shall have placed and
maintained signs giving notice thereof; and no such regulation shall be
effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   C.   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts
of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the direction indicated when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   D.   Upon roadways designated and sign posted for one-way traffic, a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   E.   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island. (1989 Code § 15-507)
6-5-8: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway. (1989 Code §
15-508)
6-5-9: NO PASSING ZONES:
   A.   The state department of transportation, as regards state and federal
highways, and the city manager as regards all other streets, are hereby
authorized to determine those portions of any highway where overtaking and
passing to the left would be especially hazardous, and may, by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones.
When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver shall obey the directions thereof.
   B.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as set
forth in subsection A of this section, no driver shall at any time drive to the
left side of the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
(1989 Code § 15-509)
6-5-10: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or
other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated as required in this chapter. This provision shall not
apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals
or police officers. (1989 Code § 15-510)
6-5-11: DRIVERS IN PROCESSION:
Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the right-
hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
close as is practical and safe. (1989 Code § 15-511)
6-5-12: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED:
A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by
the display upon the outside of each vehicle of such identifying insignia as
may be determined and designated by the police department. (1989 Code § 15-512)
6-5-13: OVERTAKING AND PASSING IN SCHOOL ZONES:
   A.   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in motion
and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on all days when schools
are in session.
   B.   Wherever a school zone is located on a multiple lane street which is
divided into three (3) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic or where the
right half of the roadway has been divided into two (2) or more lanes, or on
one-way streets, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being
driven in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane
movement. (1989 Code § 15-513)
6-5-14: OVERTAKING AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge school children, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, shall stop his vehicle before it reaches the school
bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed
past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for
the safety of such school children and other occupants.
   B.   The driver of any vehicle when passing a school bus shall use due
caution for the safety of school children and other occupants of the school
bus.
   C.   Occupants of the school bus shall have the right of way when crossing
the roadway immediately upon leaving the school bus. (1989 Code § 15-514)
6-5-15: SCHOOL BUS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The provisions of section
6-5-14 of this chapter shall be applicable only if the school bus is painted
yellow and bears upon the front and rear thereon a plainly visible sign
containing the words "SCHOOL BUS" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in
height which can be removed or covered when the vehicle is not in use as a
school bus.
   B.   The school bus shall be equipped with four (4) red alternately flashing
warning signal lights, two (2) of which shall be located high on the front and
two (2) high on the rear of the vehicle. The lights shall be a minimum of four
inches (4") in diameter and shall be widely separated. (1989 Code § 15-515)
6-5-16: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
No person shall drive any vehicle within or upon any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway. (1989 Code § 15-516)
6-5-17: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING VEHICLE:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with any other traffic. No
vehicle shall be backed into an intersection. (1989 Code § 15-517)
6-5-18: MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS:
   A.   No driver of a two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle or
bicycle shall carry any other person upon or within such vehicle on any street
or highway, except as provided in this section:
      1.   If any two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle with a wheel
diameter of twelve inches (12") or greater or any bicycle shall have either a
double seating device with double foot rests or a side car attachment providing
a separate seat space within such side car attachment for each person riding
therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of the
side car, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the age
of sixteen (16) or older to carry a passenger; and
      2.   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his employee is
permissible.
   B.   No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of the
city.
   C.   No rider of a motorcycle, bicycle or motor scooter shall hold on to any
moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
   D.   A person operating a motor scooter, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
motor bicycle, shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto.
   E.   No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter shall pass other vehicles in
between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction. Authorized emergency
vehicles are excepted from the provisions of this subsection.
   F.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) shall operate any motorcycle,
motor bicycle, or motor scooter within the city between and during the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day and four o'clock (4:00) A.M. of the next
day. (1989 Code § 15-518)
6-5-19: MOTORCYCLE EQUIPMENT, HEADGEAR:
   A.   In addition to all other requirements, motorcycles and motor scooters
shall be equipped with the following:
      1.   Handle bars which do not exceed twelve inches (12") in height,
measured from the crown or point of attachment;
      2.   Two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle; (1989 Code §
15-519)
      3.   Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle, to stop and
hold the vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes. One
means for applying the brakes shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the
front wheel, and one means shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the rear
wheels. All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the
vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between
red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than three hundred feet
(300') to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be activated upon
application of the service brake;
      4.   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least the
maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle shall be provided;
      5.   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided
by the manufacturer;
      6.   One lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at
least one hundred feet (100') in the direction in which the vehicle is
proceeding, and one tail lamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall
emit a red light plainly visible from at least one hundred feet (100') to the
rear. The lights required by this subsection shall be burning whenever the
vehicle is in motion during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to
one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the streets are not clearly discernible at a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') ahead; and (1989 Code § 15-519; amd. 2002 Code)
      7.   A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of the windshield, the operator
shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect him from
foreign objects.
   B.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall operate or ride upon
any vehicle covered under this section unless the person is equipped with and
wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design manufactured for use
by the operators of such vehicles. All crash helmets shall consist of lining,
padding and chin straps and be of the type as not to distort the view of the
driver.
   C.   No person may operate a motorcycle or motor scooter with the exhaust
system modified so that motor noise is increased greater than that of the
original muffler equipment provided by the manufacturers of the vehicle. (1989
Code § 15-519)
6-5-20: MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS; SPEED LIMITATION:
No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed greater
than the speed limit legally posted. In no event nor at any time may an
operator under the age of sixteen (16) years operate a motorcycle or motor
scooter, including a motor- driven bicycle, at a speed greater than thirty five
(35) miles per hour, or at any time or any speed when prohibited by state law.
(1989 Code § 15-520)
6-5-21: CLINGING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, rollerskates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon a roadway. (1989
Code § 15-521)
6-5-22: ENTERING AND LEAVING CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAYS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access highway,
except at entrances and exits established by public authority. (1989 Code § 15-
522)
6-5-23: RECKLESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 15-523; amd. 2002 Code)
6-5-24: CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING, STOPPING OR PARKING:
It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be parked,
or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in such a manner as
to endanger life, limb, person or property, or as to interfere with the lawful
movement of traffic or use of the streets. (1989 Code § 15-524)
6-5-25: CAREFUL AND PRUDENT MANNER OF OPERATION:
Any person driving a vehicle on a public road or way shall drive the same in a
careful and prudent manner and at a careful and prudent speed not greater than
nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface and width of the public way and any other conditions then existing.
(1989 Code § 15-525)
6-5-26: UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF DRUGS:
   A.   No person shall drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle upon any highway who is under the influence of any substance
included in the uniform controlled dangerous substance act. The fact that any
person charged with a violation of this provision is or has been lawfully
entitled to use such controlled substance shall not constitute a defense.
   B.   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 15-526)
6-5-27: UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating drugs or liquor to drive, operate or be in actual physical control
of any motor vehicle in the city.
   B.   Any person who operates a motor vehicle while his ability to operate
such motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption of alcohol shall be subject
to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Upon the trial of any criminal action or proceeding arising out of acts
alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or
intoxicating liquor, or operating a motor vehicle while his ability is impaired
by the consumption of alcohol, evidence of the amount of alcohol in the
person's blood as shown by a chemical analysis of his blood or breath is
admissible. For the purpose of this section:
      1.   Evidence that there was five-hundredths of one percent (0.05%) or
less by weight of alcohol in his blood is prima facie evidence that the person
was not under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating liquor;
      2.   Evidence that there was more than five-hundredths of one percent
(0.05%) by weight of alcohol in the person's blood is relevant evidence of
operating a motor vehicle while his ability to operate such motor vehicle is
impaired by the consumption of alcohol or intoxicating liquor; however, no
person shall be convicted while his ability to operate such vehicle is impaired
by consumption of alcohol or intoxicating liquor solely because there was more
than five-hundredths of one percent (0.05%) by weight of alcohol in the
person's blood in the absence of additional evidence that such person's driving
was affected by the consumption of alcohol to the extent that the public health
and safety was threatened or that the person had violated a state statute or
local ordinance in the operation of a motor vehicle;
      3.   Evidence that there was ten-hundredths of one percent (0.10%) or
more by weight of alcohol in his blood shall be admitted as prima facie
evidence that the person was under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating
liquor;
   D.   The percent by weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon grams
of alcohol per one hundred (100) milliliters of blood. The provisions of this
subsection do not limit the introduction of any other competent evidence
bearing on the question of whether the person was under the influence of
alcohol or intoxicating liquor. (1989 Code § 15-527)
6-5-28: TRANSPORTING OF LOW-POINT BEER:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving vehicle upon
a public highway, street or alley any low- point beer containing more than one-
half of one percent (0.05%) alcohol by volume and not more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight except in the original container which
shall not have been opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not
have been removed unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear
compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a station wagon
or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the
driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion. (1989 Code §
15-528; amd. 2002 Code)
6-5-29: UNLAWFUL TRANSPORTATION OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGE:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any vehicle upon a
public highway, street, or alley within the city any alcoholic beverage except
in the original container which shall not have been opened and the seal upon
which shall not have been broken and from which the original cap or cork shall
not have been removed, unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear
compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a vehicle
commonly known as a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment
which is not accessible to the driver or any person in the vehicle while it is
motion. (1989 Code § 15-529)
6-5-30: ATTENTION TO DRIVING REQUIRED:
The operator of every vehicle while driving shall devote his full time and
attention to such driving. (1989 Code § 15-530)
6-5-31: SPEED CONTEST PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall engage in, aid or abet any motor vehicle speed contest
or exhibition of speed on any street or highway.
   B.   No person shall for the purpose of facilitating or aiding or as an
incident to any motor vehicle speed contest upon any street or highway, in any
manner obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction upon any street or
highway.
   C.   When three (3) or more persons assemble to witness or participate in an
unlawful speed contest such assembly is unlawful assembly and any person who
participates in such unlawful assembly is guilty of an offense. (1989 Code §
15-531)
6-5-32: PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
No funeral, procession or parade containing two hundred (200) or more persons
or fifty (50) or more vehicles, except the military forces of the United States
and the military forces of this state, shall occupy, march or proceed along any
street except in accordance with a permit issued by the chief of police and
such other regulations as are set forth herein which may apply. (1989 Code §
15-532)
6-5-33: DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE:
No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone or
island. (1989 Code § 15-533)
6-5-34: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (1989 Code § 15-534)
6-5-35: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (1989 Code § 15-535)
6-5-36: OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (1989 Code § 15-536)
6-5-37: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (1989 Code § 15-537)
6-5-38: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any such vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1989 Code § 15-538)
6-5-39: RAILROAD TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREETS:
It is unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad train
to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such a manner as to
prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than five (5) minutes, except that this provision shall not apply to
trains or cars in motion other than those engaged in switching. This section
shall not apply in case of engine failure or train accidents within the city
limits. (1989 Code § 15-539)
6-5-40: PRIVATE SERVICE DRIVES:
No vehicle or animal shall be driven through any private service driveway or
private service area except for the purpose of obtaining service or
merchandise. (1989 Code § 15-540)
6-5-41: TRUCK DRIVING AND ROUTE RESTRICTIONS:
The city council may prescribe routes through the city for the use of trucks in
general, trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are not
ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the city. No person shall
operate a vehicle exceeding a gross weight of five (5) tons upon any street in
the city other than a state route, except those local streets designated as a
truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs, and except when
such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the
usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other legitimate
business other than passing through the city or in the case of an emergency.
Drivers of such vehicles shall follow such routes so far as practicable also
when driving within the city and not merely through the city. (Ord. 11-743, 11-
15-2011)
6-5-42: LOADS ON VEHICLES:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load unless
the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent the
covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders or other
loose material susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason of wind shall have
the load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the
load from the vehicle. (1989 Code § 15-542; amd. 2002 Code)
6-5-43: APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION:
   A.   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an uncontrolled intersection
from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the
vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right as
otherwise stated in this chapter; however, the driver of a vehicle on a street
which is not a state or federal highway approaching an intersection with a
state or federal highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle
which has entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   B.   The right of way rule declared in subsection A of this section is
modified at through highways as otherwise stated in this chapter. (1989 Code §
15-543)
6-5-44: TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard. After so yielding and having given signal when and as
required by this title, the driver may make the left turn and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (1989 Code §
15-544)
6-5-45: APPROACHING YIELD RIGHT OF WAY SIGN:
The driver of a vehicle approaching a "yield right of way" sign shall slow to a
reasonable speed for existing conditions of traffic and visibility, yielding
the right of way to all vehicles on the intersecting street or highway which
have entered the intersection or which are so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard. (1989 Code § 15-545)
6-5-46: ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAY:
Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic- control
signal, every driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by this title at the
entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right of way to other
vehicles which have entered the intersection from the through highway, or which
are approaching so closely on the through highway as to constitute an immediate
hazard. (1989 Code § 15-546)
6-5-47: FACING STOP, SLOW, WARNING OR CAUTION SIGNAL:
If two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or
signals at an intersection and are approaching as to enter the intersection at
the same time, the following rules shall apply: If each vehicle is required to
stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of way. If each
vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the
right of way. If each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming
from the right shall have the right of way. If one vehicle is required to slow
and the other to take caution, the one required to take caution shall have the
right of way. In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the
intersection shall have the right of way over one which has not entered the
intersection. (1989 Code § 15-547)
6-5-48: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   The city council may designate any street or part of a street a through
street.
   B.   Whenever the city council designates and describes a through street,
the stop sign, or yield sign if deemed more appropriate, shall be placed and
maintained on every street intersecting a through street, or intersecting that
portion thereof, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled at all times
by traffic-control signals.
   C.   At the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the
intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated,
stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may
be determined by the city manager if deemed desirable. (1989 Code § 15-548)
6-5-49: INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED:
The city manager, subject to any directions given by the city council by motion
or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections
upon other than through streets where particular hazards exist and to determine
whether:
   A.   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
   B.   Vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a different street
as provided in this title in which event it shall cause to be erected a yield
sign at every place where yield is required. (1989 Code § 15-549)
6-5-50: STOP OR YIELD SIGN CONSTRUCTION AND PLACEMENT:
Every stop or yield sign erected pursuant to this chapter shall bear the word
"Stop" or "Yield" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in height for a
stop sign and not less than seven inches (7") in height for a yield sign. Every
stop or yield sign shall at night be rendered luminous by steady or flashing
internal illumination, by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign,
or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop or
yield sign shall be located as close as practicable to the nearest line of the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or if there is no crosswalk,
then the sign shall be located at the nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
(1989 Code § 15-550)
6-5-51: ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION:
Except when directed by a police officer or traffic-control signal, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection, indicated by a stop sign,
shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection.
In the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line before entering the intersection. If there is no marked stop line,
then the driver shall stop at the point nearest the intersecting road where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on an intersecting roadway before
entering the intersection. A driver after having stopped shall yield the right
of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway
or road, or which is approaching so close as to constitute immediate hazard;
but the driver having so yielded may then proceed and the driver of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle so proceeding. (1989 Code § 15-551)
6-5-52: ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in observance to such
sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing condition or shall stop
if necessary and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he is driving and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another road so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may then proceed and drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding. A driver who enters a yield intersection without stopping and has
or causes a collision with a pedestrian at a crosswalk or a vehicle in the
intersection shall prima facie be considered not to have yielded as required
herein. The provisions of this section shall not release the drivers of other
vehicles approaching the intersection at such a distance as not to constitute
immediate hazard from the duty to drive with due care to avoid a collision. The
driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for safety to stop
shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection
before entering the intersection; if there is no crosswalk, the driver shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, or if there is no stop line, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. (1989 Code § 15-552)
6-5-53: ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY:
The driver of a vehicle about to enter, leave or cross a highway from or into a
private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway. (1989 Code § 15-553)
6-5-54: ENTERING TRAFFIC FROM PARKING:
Any vehicle attempting to reenter traffic while parked at the curb shall yield
the right of way to oncoming traffic in the street approaching from the rear.
The parked vehicle shall proceed into the line of traffic only after the driver
has given the appropriate signal which indicates his intention of turning from
the curb and into the line of traffic. The vehicle shall in no event enter the
line of traffic until the driver has ascertained that no hazard exists. (1989
Code § 15-554)
6-5-55: EMERGING FROM THE ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right of
way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway. (1989 Code § 15-555)
6-5-56: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed. (1989 Code § 15-556)
6-5-57: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN:
   A.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet
(15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he
can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      3.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such
distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
      4.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed. (1989 Code § 15-557)
6-5-58: CERTAIN VEHICLES STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS:
   A.   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of any
school bus carrying any school child, or of any vehicle carrying explosive
substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing
at grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within
fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of
such railroad, and while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions
along such track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, except as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed
until he can do so safely. After stopping as required herein and upon
proceeding when it is safe to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall cross
only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing
gears while traversing such crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears
while crossing the track or tracks.
   B.   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or
traffic-control signal directs traffic to proceed. (1989 Code § 15-558)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Authority To Install Devices
6-6-2: Uniform Requirements
6-6-3: Obedience To Devices Required
6-6-4: Requirement For Enforcement
6-6-5: Signal Legend
6-6-6: Pedestrians; Signal Indicators; Regulations
6-6-7: Flashing Signals
6-6-8: Pedestrian-Activated School Crossing Signals
6-6-9: Unauthorized Devices Prohibited
6-6-10: Defacement Of Devices
6-6-11: Play Streets
6-6-12: Crosswalks And Safety Zones Designated
6-6-13: Traffic Lanes
6-6-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL DEVICES:
City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council by motion
or resolution, shall have placed and maintained traffic-control signs, signals
and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of this city to
make effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may have placed and
maintained such additional traffic-control signs, signals and devices as they
may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of this
city or under state law or to guide or warn traffic. (1989 Code § 15-601)
6-6-2: UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The manual on uniform traffic-control devices, 1988 edition, as
approved by the federal highway administrator and as adopted by the Oklahoma
state department of transportation, is adopted and incorporated as currently
approved, or as subsequently amended.
   B.   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices and other highway and
street markings shall conform to the manual on uniform traffic-control devices
as approved by the federal highway administrator and as adopted by the Oklahoma
state department of transportation. All signs and signals required hereunder
for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type
and location throughout the municipality. All traffic-control devices so
erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of this title shall be
official traffic-control devices. (Ord. 614, 10-16-1990)
6-6-3: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES REQUIRED:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject
to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
title. (1989 Code § 15-603)
6-6-4: REQUIREMENT FOR ENFORCEMENT:
No provision of this chapter for which official traffic-control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. If a
particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (1989 Code § 15-604)
6-6-5: SIGNAL LEGEND:
The display of signal lights, arrows and words shall be deemed to have the
following meanings and requires the appropriate response on the part of
vehicular traffic and pedestrians:
   A.   Green Alone, "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited, may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless an official sign at such
place prohibits such turn, but any vehicle and any pedestrian lawfully within
the intersection or adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal displays green
shall have the right of way over such vehicular traffic; and
      2.   Pedestrian traffic, facing a green signal may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless a "walk" signal
indicator is operating;
   B.   Steady Yellow Or Amber Alone, "Caution":
      1.   The showing of such signal color following green shall constitute a
warning that the "red" or "stop" signal will be exhibited immediately
thereafter; and
      2.   Vehicles facing the signal shall stop before entering the near side
crosswalk or at the limit line, if it is marked, unless the vehicle is so near
the limit line when the "caution" signal first flashes that a stop cannot be
made in safety, in which event vehicles may proceed cautiously through the
intersection and clear the same before the "red" signal flashes;
   C.   Red Alone, "Stop":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk and shall remain standing until green or "go" is shown alone. Except
where official signs are erected prohibiting such turns, vehicles in the right
traffic lane, after making a full stop as required, may enter the intersection
cautiously and make a right turn, but such vehicles shall yield the right of
way to any pedestrians or other traffic in the intersection and the turn shall
be made so as not to interfere in any way with traffic proceeding on a green
signal indication on the cross street; and
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal shall not enter or cross the roadway
when such movement interferes with traffic proceeding on a green signal
indication on the cross street, or when the movement cannot be made in safety.
No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the green or
"go" is shown alone unless authorized to do so, by a pedestrian "walk" signal;
   D.   Steady Red With Green Arrow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal when in the proper traffic lane
may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by
the arrow, but shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If the movement
indicated by the green arrow is a left turn, the left turn shall be made only
on the red with green arrow signal; and
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian "walk"
signal; and
   E.   Green Arrows alone: Whenever vehicular traffic movements are controlled
by green arrows alone and not displayed with any other signal indication,
vehicles facing such signals may make the movements indicated by the green
arrows and the movements shall be made only when the green arrows are
displayed. (1989 Code § 15-605)
6-6-6: PEDESTRIANS; SIGNAL INDICATORS; REGULATIONS:
Special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "walk", "wait" or
"don't walk" shall regulate pedestrian movement as follows:
   A.   "Walk": Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the
drivers of all vehicles; and
   B.   "Wait" Or "Don't Walk": No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the "walk" signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone
while the "wait" signal is showing. (1989 Code § 15-606)
6-6-7: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Whenever a flashing red or yellow signal is illuminated, it shall
require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
      1.   Flashing Red: When a red light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject
to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; and
      2.   Flashing Yellow: When a yellow light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection,
or pass such signal only with caution.
   B.   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (1989 Code §
15-607)
6-6-8: PEDESTRIAN-ACTIVATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS:
Whenever a pedestrian-activated school crossing signal is provided, it requires
obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Flashing Yellow:
      1.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or pass
such signal only with caution; and
      2.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
activate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal;
   B.   Steady Yellow Alone:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
of "stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the signal when
the red or "stop" signal is exhibited; and
      2.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown;
   C.   Steady Red:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, and shall remain standing until
flashing yellow is shown alone;
      2.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal,
and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles; and
   D.   Steady Red And Steady Yellow Combined:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone; and
      2.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal-controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the right
of way by the drivers of all vehicles. (1989 Code § 15-608)
6-6-9: UNAUTHORIZED DEVICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   B.   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   C.   This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private property
adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information which are
of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device may be removed without
notice. (1989 Code § 15-609)
6-6-10: DEFACEMENT OF DEVICES:
   A.   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
destroy, deface, molest, interfere, tamper, injure, knock down, remove or have
in his possession any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal or
an inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to any of the following persons when
acting within the scope and duty of their employment:
      1.   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any governmental agency; or
      2.   Any officer, agent independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any contractor, public utility or railroad company. (1989 Code § 15-
610)
6-6-11: PLAY STREETS:
   A.   Authority To Establish: City personnel, subject to any directions given
by the city council, shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof
a play street and to have placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. (1989 Code § 15-611)
   B.   Restriction On Use: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating
any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle
upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having
business or whose residences are within such closed area; and then any such
driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof. (1989 Code § 15-612)
6-6-12: CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES DESIGNATED:
City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council, may:
   A.   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the
surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in their opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as they may deem necessary; and
   B.   Establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as they may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1989
Code § 15-613)
6-6-13: TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council,
may be authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street
where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   B.   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance. (1989 Code § 15-614)
CHAPTER 7
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
6-7-1: Illegal Parking Declared Public Nuisance
6-7-2: Application Of Regulations
6-7-3: Limits Established; Signs
6-7-4: Parking More Than Twenty Four Hours
6-7-5: Brakes; Motor Not Left Running
6-7-6: Angle Parking; Signs Or Markings
6-7-7: Obedience To Angle Parking Requirements
6-7-8: Parking In Spaces Marked Off
6-7-9: Permits For Loading Or Unloading
6-7-10: Hazardous Or Congested Places
6-7-11: Prohibitions In Specified Places
6-7-12: Blocking Of Intersection Or Crosswalk
6-7-13: One-Way Roadway
6-7-14: Left Side Of One-Way Streets
6-7-15: Parking Adjacent To Schools
6-7-16: Parking Prohibited At Intersections
6-7-17: Parking In Alleys, Blocking Driveways
6-7-18: Entry On Private Property
6-7-19: Truck Parking Prohibited
6-7-20: Double Parking
6-7-21: Trucks Transporting Hazardous Materials
6-7-22: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-7-23: Method Of Parking, Standing Or Parking Close To Curb
6-7-24: Negligent Parking
6-7-25: Right Of Way To Parallel Parking Space
6-7-1: ILLEGAL PARKING DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this chapter governing,
limiting or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any street or
public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, and
each separate traffic citation issued as authorized herein for such violation
shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or operator of such
vehicle. (1989 Code § 15-701)
6-7-2: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable when it is necessary for
a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic-control device. (1989
Code § 15-702)
6-7-3: LIMITS ESTABLISHED; SIGNS:
City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council by motion
or resolution, may establish parking time limits or prohibit parking on
designated streets or parts of streets and have appropriate signs placed on the
streets. When the signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle in violation of the sign. No such time limits shall be effective unless
a sign is erected and in place at the time of the alleged violation. (1989 Code
§ 15-703)
6-7-4: PARKING MORE THAN TWENTY FOUR HOURS:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer than
twenty four (24) hours. No person shall park a vehicle on any public parking
lot owned or controlled by the city for a period of time longer than seventy
two (72) hours; however, the city manager may under such rules, regulations or
directions as the city council may establish, grant special permission for a
person to park a vehicle on a public parking lot owned or controlled by the
city for a period of time in excess of seventy two (72) hours. This section
shall not affect parking limits established for shorter periods. (1989 Code §
15-704)
6-7-5: BRAKES; MOTOR NOT LEFT RUNNING:
Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked. (1989 Code
§ 15-705)
6-7-6: ANGLE PARKING; SIGNS OR MARKINGS:
The city manager, subject to any directions given by the city council by motion
or resolution, shall determine upon what streets and parts of streets angle
parking shall be permitted, and shall have such streets marked or signed. (1989
Code § 15-706)
6-7-7: OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings. (1989 Code § 15-707)
6-7-8: PARKING IN SPACES MARKED OFF:
In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space. (1989 Code § 15-708)
6-7-9: PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING:
   A.   City personnel are authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to
the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the privilege as
therein stated and authorized herein. The city manager may revoke such permits
at any time.
   B.   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of any such permit. (1989 Code § 15-709)
6-7-10: HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES:
   A.   City personnel are hereby authorized to determine and regulate by
proper signs the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles when such stopping,
standing or parking would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
   B.   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, as
authorized in subsection A of this section, no person shall violate such signs.
(1989 Code § 15-710)
6-7-11: PROHIBITIONS IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except in emergencies or
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law
or the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area, or between the sidewalk and the
street;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station, and on the side of street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of the entrance when properly signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; or
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a curb. (1989 Code § 15-711)
6-7-12: BLOCKING OF INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed. (1989 Code § 15-712)
6-7-13: ONE-WAY ROADWAY:
   A.   If a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
   B.   The city council may determine when standing or parking may be
permitted upon the left-hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect
signs giving notice thereof. (1989 Code § 15-713)
6-7-14: LEFT SIDE OF ONE-WAY STREETS:
City personnel may have signs erected upon the left-hand side of any one-way
street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles. When the signs are in
place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of any such signs.
(1989 Code § 15-714)
6-7-15: PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
   A.   City personnel may have signs erected indicating no parking upon either
or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such parking
would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   B.   No person shall park a vehicle in violation of any such signs. (1989
Code § 15-715)
6-7-16: PARKING PROHIBITED AT INTERSECTIONS:
The parking of vehicles at the curb where streets intersect shall be prohibited
fifteen feet (15') in advance of the crosswalk on the near side of such
intersection. (1989 Code § 15-716)
6-7-17: PARKING IN ALLEYS, BLOCKING DRIVEWAYS:
No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than twenty feet (20') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position
as to block a driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1989 Code § 15-717)
6-7-18: ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon real property owned
or legally occupied by another without the owner's or occupant's consent,
except where such private property is provided as public parking and the
general use of the property is not restricted by signs or proper markings.
   B.   Where entry is made upon real property owned or legally occupied by
another without the owner's or occupant's consent, except on unrestricted
public parking, and is complained of by the owner or legal occupant of the
premises, the burden is put upon the person making the entry to show that
permission for such entry was given. (1989 Code § 15-718)
6-7-19: TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to
park any of the following vehicles which exceed a weight limit of one ton on
any street or alley in the city, except as provided in subsection B of this
section:
      1.   Truck;
      2.   Bus;
      3.   Tractor;
      4.   Trailer;
      5.   Truck-trailer, semi-trailer, or combination of any of the above; or
      6.   Any other commercial vehicle. (1989 Code § 15-719)
   B.   The vehicles listed in subsection A of this section may be parked
entirely on private property so long as they are not in the area dedicated for
use as a public street and so long as they do not obstruct the usage of the
streets by other vehicles and pedestrians. (1989 Code § 15-719; amd. 2002 Code)
6-7-20: DOUBLE PARKING:
   A.   No driver shall double park or double stop a vehicle under the
following conditions:
      1.   Within fifty feet (50') of an intersection, except alley
intersections, or within ten feet (10') of an alley intersection;
      2.   Opposite a double parked or double stopped vehicle across the
street;
      3.   When such double parking or double stopping would or does block or
interfere materially with the normal movement of traffic;
      4.   When parking space adjacent to the curb is available;
      5.   When directed by a police officer to move on; or
      6.   In any position other than parallel to the curb and within two feet
(2') of the adjacent vehicle parked next to the curb.
   B.   A driver may double park or double stop a vehicle only as authorized in
this section. There must be a licensed driver in any vehicle while it is double
parked or double stopped.
   C.   A driver may double stop for the purpose of, but only while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, subject,
however, to all the general conditions hereinabove set out.
   D.   A driver may double park for the purpose of, but only while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of merchandise, subject,
however, to all the general conditions hereinabove set out. No such vehicle
shall be double parked longer than ten (10) minutes. (1989 Code § 15-720)
6-7-21: TRUCKS TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
It is unlawful to park, store or otherwise let stand a truck or other vehicle
which is used for the purpose of transporting or delivering flammable and
combustible liquids as defined by the fire prevention code of the American
insurance association and trucks or other vehicles which are used for the
transportation and delivery of liquefied petroleum gases in any area within the
city. However, the trucks and vehicles restricted in this section may be
temporarily parked at locations otherwise zoned for the purpose of loading and
unloading flammable and combustible liquids and liquefied petroleum gases for a
period not to exceed one and one-half (11/2) hours during any twenty four (24)
hour period. (1989 Code § 15-721)
6-7-22: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of:
   A.   Vehicle For Sale: Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   B.   Advertising Or Displaying Merchandise: Displaying advertising or
displaying merchandise or other things for sale or selling merchandise or other
things; or
   C.   Washing, Cleaning Or Repairing: Washing, cleaning or repairing the
vehicle, except for repairs necessitated by an emergency. (1989 Code § 15-722)
6-7-23: METHOD OF PARKING, STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs, shall be so stopped or parked
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within eighteen
inches (18") of the right-hand curb. Any vehicle stopped or parked upon the
left-hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs shall be
parked or stopped with the left-hand wheels parallel to and within eighteen
inches (18") of the left-hand curb. (1989 Code § 15-723)
6-7-24: NEGLIGENT PARKING:
No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop or leave unattended any vehicle
as follows:
   A.   In a careless or negligent manner;
   B.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, persons or property; or
   C.   In such manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic or
use of the streets. (1989 Code § 15-724)
6-7-25: RIGHT OF WAY TO PARALLEL PARKING SPACE:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking space
where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by another
vehicle shall stop his vehicle to the rear of the parking space until the
vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic. He then shall be
deemed to have the right of way to such parking space over any other vehicle
attempting to park therein.
   B.   The first of two (2) or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of an
unoccupied parallel parking space where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy, shall be deemed to have the right of way to such parking space. (1989
Code § 15-725)
CHAPTER 8
LOADING
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Curb Loading Zones, Designation
6-8-3: Use Of Loading Zones
6-8-4: Passenger Curb Loading Zone
6-8-5: Freight Curb Loading Zone
6-8-6: Designation Of Public Carrier Stops And Stands
6-8-7: Use Of Bus and Taxicab Stands Restricted
6-8-8: Buses And Taxis; Stopping, Standing And Parking
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: A. A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name
of the owner or his business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly
used during normal business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise
or freight and which bears a regular state commercial license tag; and
   B.   A passenger vehicle used regularly and actually engaged during normal
business hours in the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight, and
which bears a special numbered license plate issued by the city at the rear of
the vehicle attached to the state license plate, together with an identically
numbered decal, issued for said vehicle.
FREIGHT LOADING ZONES: All curb loading zones authorized and regularly used
exclusively for the loading and unloading of merchandise for storage, trade,
shipment or resale.
PASSENGER LOADING ZONES: All loading zones authorized and used regularly and
exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers, except bus stops,
taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier vehicles. (1989
Code § 15-801)
6-8-2: CURB LOADING ZONES, DESIGNATION:
   A.   City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council by
motion or resolution, may determine the location of passenger and freight curb
loading zones and shall have placed and maintained appropriate signs indicating
the zones and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable.
   B.   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of signs erected
in accordance with this section.
   C.   If any loading zone is established on request of any person, the signs
shall not be placed until the applicant pays to the city an amount of money
estimated by the city council to be adequate to reimburse the city for all
costs of establishing and signing the same. (1989 Code § 15-802)
6-8-3: USE OF LOADING ZONES:
No curb loading zone authorized and established as a passenger loading zone
shall be used as a freight loading zone, and no freight loading zone shall be
used as a passenger loading zone except as may be specifically provided by law.
(1989 Code § 15-803)
6-8-4: PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a passenger curb loading zone
for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers, during the hours when the regulations applicable to
such curb loading zones are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed
three (3) minutes. (1989 Code § 15-804)
6-8-5: FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a commercial curb
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials during hours when the
provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the stop
for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. Vehicles
using any commercial loading zone shall be subject to the licensing
requirements and regulations provided by this chapter.
   B.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to enter the zone. (1989
Code § 15-805)
6-8-6: DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS:
City personnel may establish loading zones for common carriers, including, but
not limited to, bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other
passenger common carrier motor vehicles, on such public streets in such places
and in such number as they shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and
convenience to the public. Every such loading zone shall be designated by
appropriate signs. (1989 Code § 15-806)
6-8-7: USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS RESTRICTED:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop,
or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been
officially designated and the appropriate signs are in place. The driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(1989 Code § 15-807)
6-8-8: BUSES AND TAXIS; STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING:
   A.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
   B.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
except in a bus stop, stand or loading zone designated as provided herein,
except in case of an emergency.
   C.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches (18") from the
curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede
the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   D.   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers. (1989 Code § 15-808)
CHAPTER 9
TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Markers Or Indicators
6-9-2: Designation Of Restricted Turns
6-9-3: Obedience To No-Turn Signs
6-9-4: U-Turns
6-9-5: Position And Method Of Turning
6-9-6: Turning Movements And Required Signals
6-9-7: Means Of Giving Turn Signals
6-9-8: Hand And Arm Signals
6-9-9: Turns Into Or From Alleys
6-9-1: MARKERS OR INDICATORS:
   A.   City personnel, subject to any directions given by the city council by
motion or resolution, are authorized to place markers, buttons or signs within
or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
turning at such intersections. The course to be traveled, as so indicated, may
conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   B.   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed within
an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications. (1989 Code § 15-901)
6-9-2: DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED TURNS:
City personnel are hereby authorized to determine those street intersections at
which drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left or U-turns, and shall have
proper signs placed at the intersections. The making of the turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours. Where
turns are restricted during certain hours pursuant to this section, the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when turns are
permitted. (1989 Code § 15-902)
6-9-3: OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-turn
is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall not disobey the directions of any
such sign. (1989 Code § 15-903)
6-9-4: U-TURNS:
   A.   Prohibited Locations: The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the
vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in the city
at the following locations:
      1.   At intersections controlled by traffic-control devices or signals
unless such turns are specifically authorized;
      2.   Where a police officer is directing traffic, except at the latter's
direction; or
      3.   At any other location where an official "No U-turn" has been placed
and is maintained.
   B.   Manner Of Making U-Turns: A U-turn may be made only when it can be made
in safety and without interfering with other traffic. No person shall make a U-
turn except in the following manner:
      1.   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the right
curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to give a signal
for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make the turn across
the intersection;
      2.   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the vehicle;
      3.   By yielding the right of way at all times to all vehicles until such
turn in completed; and
      4.   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle. (1989 Code § 15-904)
6-9-5: POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows:
   A.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and the execution of a
right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge
of the roadway;
   B.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
the approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the street nearest the center thereof by passing to the right of the center
line where it enters the intersection. After entering the intersection, the
left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
center of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall
be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection; or
   C.   Left Turns, On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearby as practicable, in the left- hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon roadway being entered. (1989 Code § 15-905)
6-9-6: TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS:
   A.   Positioning, Safety: No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection
unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required in
section
6-9-5 of this chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   B.   Signal; Distance Requirement: A signal of intention to turn right or
left, slow or stop when required, shall be given continuously during not less
than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before turning or
stopping.
   C.   Decrease Of Speed: No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed
of a vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided
herein to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is
opportunity to give the signal. (1989 Code § 15-906)
6-9-7: MEANS OF GIVING TURN SIGNALS:
   A.   Specified: Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given
either by means of hand or arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps, or mechanical
device of a type approved by the Oklahoma department of public safety, except
as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Lamps And Devices: A vehicle shall be equipped with, and the required
signal given by, signal lamps or devices when:
      1.   The body or cab of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle projects
twenty four inches (24") or more to the left of the center of the steering
wheel;
      2.   Under any condition where a hand and arm signal would not be visible
both to the front and rear of the vehicle; or
      3.   The rear limit of the body of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle
projects fourteen feet (14') or more beyond the center top of the steering
post. (1989 Code § 15-907)
6-9-8: HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
   A.   Left turn; hand and arm extended horizontally;
   B.   Right turn; hand and arm extended upward; and
   C.   Stop or decrease speed; hand and arm extended downward with palm to the
rear. (1989 Code § 15-908)
6-9-9: TURNS INTO OR FROM ALLEYS:
   A.   No vehicles shall turn left when proceeding into or proceeding out of
an alley except when necessary to enter a one-way street, and no vehicle shall
cross any street or highway when proceeding into or proceeding out of any alley
except as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Left turns may be made when proceeding out of an alley if a traffic
survey conducted by the traffic engineer shows that such turn may be made
safely and official signs are erected authorizing such turns.
   C.   The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply to bus
terminals used by licensed and authorized bus lines. (1989 Code § 15-909)
CHAPTER 10
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-10-1: Subject To Traffic-Control Signals
6-10-2: Right Of Way At Crosswalks
6-10-3: Right Half Of Sidewalk
6-10-4: Crossing At Right Angles
6-10-5: Yielding By Pedestrians
6-10-6: Walking Along Roadways
6-10-7: Soliciting Rides, Business Or Donations Prohibited
6-10-8: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
6-10-9: Crossing Prohibited
6-10-10: Obedience To Railroad Signals
6-10-1: SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as provided for in this
title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (1989 Code § 15-1001)
6-10-2: RIGHT OF WAY AT CROSSWALKS:
   A.   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way by slowing down or stopping,
if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when:
      1.   The pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling; or
      2.   The pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite edge of
the roadway as to be in danger.
The provisions of this subsection are not applicable under conditions where
pedestrians are required to yield pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety or
walk or run into the path of the vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
   C.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk, or any unmarked
crosswalk, or at an intersection, to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway,
the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake to
pass such stopped vehicle. (1989 Code § 15-1002)
6-10-3: RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK:
Pedestrians, when crossing the street at a crosswalk, shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of the crosswalk. (1989 Code § 15-1003)
6-10-4: CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES:
No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at right
angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except in a
crosswalk. (1989 Code § 15-1004)
6-10-5: YIELDING BY PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   The provisions of this section are not applicable where pedestrian
crossings are prohibited. (1989 Code § 15-1005)
6-10-6: WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   A.   Sidewalks Provided: Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful
for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Sidewalks Not Provided: Where sidewalks are not provided, any
pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall, when practical, walk only on
the left side of the roadway, or its shoulder, facing traffic which may
approach from the opposite direction, and shall yield to approaching vehicles.
(1989 Code § 15-1006)
6-10-7: SOLICITING RIDES, BUSINESS OR DONATIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for purpose of soliciting a ride,
donations, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall:
      1.   Stand in any street, roadway or park and stop or attempt to stop and
engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting contributions or
the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a
street;
      2.   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any vehicle;
      3.   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir or gift; or
      4.   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway,
attempt to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar
purpose. (1989 Code § 15-1007)
6-10-8: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Not withstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person on the roadway. (1989 Code § 15-1008)
6-10-9: CROSSING PROHIBITED:
Between adjacent intersections, at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall not cross any divided highway having a median in the center
thereof, except in a crosswalk. (1989 Code § 15-1009)
6-10-10: OBEDIENCE TO RAILROAD SIGNALS:
No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed. (1989 Code § 15-1010)
CHAPTER 11
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-11-1: Application Of Regulations
6-11-2: Traffic Laws; Applicability
6-11-3: Obedience To Traffic-Control Devices
6-11-4: Riding On Bicycles
6-11-5: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
6-11-6: Speed Of Bicycle
6-11-7: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
6-11-8: Carrying Articles
6-11-9: Parking
6-11-10: Riding On Sidewalks
6-11-11: Lamps And Equipment
6-11-1: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon
any street or upon any public way; or upon any path set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated in this chapter. (1989 Code
§ 15-1101)
6-11-2: TRAFFIC LAWS; APPLICABILITY:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this state and the traffic provisions of this code applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and
except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature are
inapplicable to such persons. (1989 Code § 15-1102)
6-11-3: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the directions
of such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to the pedestrians. (1989 Code § 15-1103)
6-11-4: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (1989 Code § 15-1104)
6-11-5: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2)
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   C.   If usable paths for bicycles are provided adjacent to a roadway,
bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use the roadway. (1989 Code §
15-1105)
6-11-6: SPEED OF BICYCLE:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (1989 Code § 15-1106)
6-11-7: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley or driveway shall, upon
approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the alley or driveway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area. Upon entering the roadway, the bicycle operator shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadways. (1989 Code § 15-1107)
6-11-8: CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article which
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handle bars. (1989
Code § 15-1108)
6-11-9: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against the building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (1989 Code § 15-1109)
6-11-10: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   B.   The city council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to have
erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles
thereon by any person; and when such signs are in place, no person shall
disobey the same.
   C.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (1989 Code § 15-1110)
6-11-11: LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lamps: Bicycles in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300')
to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   Signal Device: No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped
with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance
of at least one hundred feet (100').
   C.   Siren, Whistle Prohibited: A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor
shall any person use, any siren or whistle.
   D.   Brake: Bicycles shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (1989
Code § 15-1111)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Public Works Department; Superintendent, Duties
7-1-2: Obstructions Prohibited
7-1-3: Depositing Trash
7-1-4: Drainage Obstructions
7-1-5: Playing Unlawful; Exception
7-1-6: Washing Vehicles
7-1-7: Drainage Of Water From Washing Vehicles
7-1-8: Fluids From Filling Stations And Other Businesses
7-1-9: Trees And Shrubbery Trimmed
7-1-10: Injury To Trees And Shrubbery
7-1-11: Excavations
7-1-12: Open Grating
7-1-13: Drainage Of Polluting Substance Into Streets Prohibited
7-1-14: Penalty
7-1-1: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT; SUPERINTENDENT, DUTIES:
   A.   Department; Appointment Of Superintendent: There shall be a public
works department, the head of which shall be the superintendent of public
works, appointed by the mayor for an indefinite term, subject to confirmation
by the city council, and removable by the city council. The superintendent of
public works shall be an officer of the city, and shall have supervision and
control of the public works department. (1989 Code § 14-101; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Duties: It is the duty of the public works department, insofar as the
city government performs these functions with its own personnel:
      1.   To construct, improve, maintain and clean streets (including alleys
and other public ways), bridges and sidewalks; to install and maintain street
lights, traffic-control signs, markings, signals and devices; to erect and
maintain street name signs; and to supervise the use of streets by privately-
owned utilities;
      2.   To construct, improve, maintain and operate storm and sanitary
sewers and sewage disposal facilities;
      3.   To maintain all buildings and grounds used by the city;
      4.   To maintain and operate all parks, playgrounds, swimming pools and
other recreational facilities operated by the city;
      5.   To maintain and operate all city-owned cemeteries;
      6.   To maintain city-owned motor equipment;
      7.   To maintain and operate the water system and any other city- owned
utilities and public service; and
      8.   To perform such other functions relating to the maintenance, repair,
improvement and operation of the physical facilities owned or used by the city
government as the city may prescribe consistent with the city ordinance. (1989
Code § 14-101)
7-1-2: OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any of the
following to obstruct a sidewalk, street, public way or alley, or interfere
with pedestrians or traffic in the free use of the entire street, sidewalk or
public way:
      1.   To use the sidewalk or street in front of a place of business for
display of merchandise or signs;
      2.   To sell or offer for sale any merchandise from the sidewalk, street
or alley in front of a place of business; or use such areas as a place to carry
on a business or trade; or
      3.   To allow a sidewalk in front of property owned by a person to become
in an unsafe condition for pedestrians or a hazard to persons using the
sidewalk or sidewalk area.
   B.   It is the duty of each person to keep sidewalks clear and in a safe
condition for pedestrians.
   C.   The obstruction of any of the streets, sidewalks or public ways in the
city or allowing sidewalks to become unsafe, unclear or a hazard in violation
of this section shall constitute a public nuisance. (1989 Code § 14-102)
7-1-3: DEPOSITING TRASH:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or sweep
into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the city any paper,
rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or other
refuse of any kind. (1989 Code § 14-103)
7-1-4: DRAINAGE OBSTRUCTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk or alley within the city, by placing any approach driveway or other
obstruction or substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural
flow of water into the storm sewers or drains or dam the same so as to back any
water upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks or gutters. (1989 Code § 14-104)
7-1-5: PLAYING UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks or upon the main-
traveled portion of the streets and alleys of the city, except as may be
authorized by ordinance. (1989 Code § 14-105)
7-1-6: WASHING VEHICLES:
The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any street of the city is
hereby prohibited. (1989 Code § 14-106)
7-1-7: DRAINAGE OF WATER FROM WASHING VEHICLES:
No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the city
where the water, dirt, mud or other substances removed therefrom by or during
the washing thereof, shall drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of the
city. (1989 Code § 14-107)
7-1-8: FLUIDS FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES:
It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place of
business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or
other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking,
street, alley or other public way. (1989 Code § 14-108)
7-1-9: TREES AND SHRUBBERY TRIMMED:
   A.   Required: The owner of any premises abutting on any street of this city
shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the
sidewalks and the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery
growing on any part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or
alley, in such manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free
and convenient passage and travel along the street, sidewalks and alleys. When
premises are occupied by some person other than the owner, the occupant shall
trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinbefore required of the
owner. Trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the sidewalk.
   B.   Failure To Comply: Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or
neglect to trim trees and shrubbery as provided in this section, after
receiving five (5) days' notice from the business manager to do so, shall be
guilty of an offense against the city. Every day that the owner or occupant
shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim the trees or shrubbery, after the
expiration of the five (5) days' notice, shall be a separate offense. (1989
Code § 14-109)
7-1-10: INJURY TO TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the city. This section shall not prohibit the lawful and proper care
and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (1989 Code § 14-110)
7-1-11: EXCAVATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to make any excavation or cutting in any street,
sidewalk, alley or public grounds or to remove any earth or construction
material therefrom, except when so authorized to by the city. (1989 Code § 14-
111)
7-1-12: OPEN GRATING:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to permit to be open or leave open
any cellar door, manhole or grating of any kind in or upon any street, sidewalk
or alley of the city. (1989 Code § 14-112)
7-1-13: DRAINAGE OF POLLUTING SUBSTANCE INTO STREETS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any residence or business to allow drainage of a polluting
substance into any street, alley or sidewalk. A polluting substance is one
defined under state law, 82 Oklahoma Statutes section 926.1. (1989 Code § 14-
113; amd. 2002 Code)
7-1-14: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable, upon conviction, by fine or
imprisonment as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 14-114)
CHAPTER 2
CLOSING STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Application For Approval
7-2-3: Fee
7-2-4: Investigation
7-2-5: Notice Requirements
7-2-6: Reopening
7-2-7: Rights Of Utilities
7-2-8: Closing Of Public Ways; Authority Of City
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CLOSE: A legislative act of the city council discontinuing the public use of a
public way or easement without affecting title to real property.
EASEMENT: Rights in real property as set forth in 60 Oklahoma Statutes section
49.
PUBLIC AGENCY: The city, state or federal governments, or any of their agencies
or political subdivisions.
PUBLIC WAY: A street, avenue, boulevard, alley, lane or thoroughfare open for
public use. (1989 Code § 14-201)
7-2-2: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL:
Any person or corporation desiring to have a public way or easement closed
within the corporate limits of the city shall submit a formal application to
the planning commission. The application shall consist of:
   A.   A statement why the applicant desires that it be closed, whether the
public way or easement is presently being used by the public or when last used
by the public;
   B.   An ownership list of all owners of record abutting the public way or
easement sought to be closed, and such other owners of record whose property is
within three hundred feet (300') in any direction from the public way or
easement. The ownership list shall be taken from the current year's tax rolls
of the county treasurer and the list certified by a bonded abstractor;
   C.   A map which reflects the public way or easement sought to be closed.
This map shall also reflect the ownership lines for each owner of record whose
name appears on the ownership list; and
   D.   A list of all utility companies or holders of franchise or special
permits or privileges in the public way or easement. (1989 Code § 14-202)
7-2-3: FEE:
   A.   Required: All applicants, except a public agency, shall submit with
this application a fee in such amounts as established by resolution of the city
council.
   B.   Exception For Public Agency: A public agency shall not be required to
pay an application fee. (1989 Code § 14-203; amd. 2002 Code)
7-2-4: INVESTIGATION:
After the application has been submitted along with all requested information,
the planning commission shall make an investigation to determine the
desirability of closing such public way or easement. Upon completion of the
investigation, the planning commission shall make such recommendations as it
deems appropriate to the city council. (1989 Code § 14-204)
7-2-5: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Upon receipt of the recommendations of the planning commission, the
city council shall cause written notice of not less than thirty (30) days to be
given prior to the proposed consideration of an ordinance closing the public
way or easement to those abutting property owners whose names appear on the
ownership list and any holder of a franchise and others determined by the city
council to have a special right or privilege granted by ordinance or
legislative enactment to use the public way or easement. The notice shall be
mailed to the last known address of the party and will be deemed to have been
given from the date it is mailed.
   B.   The city council shall cause notice of the consideration of the
proposed ordinance to be given by at least one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city, not less than ten (10) days prior to the
consideration of such ordinance. The cost of publication and notices shall be
paid for by the applicant in addition to the other fees provided for such
closing. (1989 Code § 14-205)
7-2-6: REOPENING:
The city shall retain the absolute right to reopen a public way or easement
without expense to the city and may reopen by its own motion. (1989 Code § 14-
206)
7-2-7: RIGHTS OF UTILITIES:
The closing of a public way or easement shall not affect the right to maintain,
repair, reconstruct, operate or remove city utility, public service
corporation, or transmission company facilities or service therein, nor shall
such closing affect private ways existing by operation of law unless released
in writing executed by the owners thereof. (1989 Code § 14-207)
7-2-8: CLOSING OF PUBLIC WAYS; AUTHORITY OF CITY:
Nothing herein contained shall prohibit or restrict the city from closing
public ways and easements temporarily for safety, traffic or welfare of its
citizens. (1989 Code § 14-208)
CHAPTER 3
CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-3-1: Establishment Of Cemetery Policy
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: General Rules
7-3-4: Lots And Lot Owners
7-3-5: Care Of Lots
7-3-6: Descent Of Title
7-3-7: Interments
7-3-8: Application For Interment Permit
7-3-9: Plants And Shrubs
7-3-10: Enforcement Of Rules
7-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF CEMETERY POLICY:
For the mutual protection of lot owners and the cemetery as a whole, the
following rules and regulations have been adopted by the city as the rules and
regulations of city cemetery and all lot owners and visitors within the
cemetery and all lots sold, shall be subject to the rules and regulations; and
subject further, to such other rules and regulations, amendments or alterations
as shall be adopted by the city council from time to time and the reference to
these rules and regulations in the deed or certificate of ownership to a lot
shall have the same force and effect as if set forth therein. (1989 Code § 11-
201)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CEMETERY: Includes a burial park for earth interments, a community mausoleum
for vault or crypt interments, a crematory or crematorium and columbarium for
cinerary inurnments, or a combination of one or more than one thereof.
CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP: Applies to the original conveyance given by the
cemetery to the original purchaser.
INTERMENT: The permanent disposition of the remains of a deceased person by
cremation and inurnment, entombment or burial.
LOT: Applies to numbered divisions as shown on the record plat which consists
of two (2) or more plots.
LOT MARKER: A type of post used by the cemetery to locate corners of the lot or
plot.
MEMORIAL: Includes a monument, marker, tablet, headstone, private mausoleum or
tomb for family or individual use, tombstone, urn and crypt and niche place.
MONUMENT: Includes a tombstone or memorial of granite or marble which shall
extend above the surface of the ground.
PLOT: Applies to a space of sufficient size to accommodate one adult interment
approximately three feet by ten feet (3' x 10').
TEMPORARY MARKER: Includes markers made of synthetic or metallic materials such
as wood, plastic or tin and obtained from funeral homes or other sources. (1989
Code § 11-202)
7-3-3: GENERAL RULES:
The city owns and operates the city cemetery in accordance with the laws of the
state and city. The following rules shall also govern the cemetery and its
maintenance, operations and grounds:
   A.   Employees Working Specific Days: Employees of the city are not expected
to work on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, except when absolutely necessary in
the preservation of order, and as specified in cemetery rules and regulations.
Consequently, Saturday and Sunday funerals will be held to a minimum.
   B.   Work Permitted By Employees: Employees of the city are not permitted to
do any work for lot owners except upon order of the superintendent but, are
required to be civil and courteous to all visitors.
   C.   Payment Of Fees And Charges: All fees or charges for services are
payable at the city clerk's office as herein stated and patrons of the cemetery
are requested not to pay any fee or gratuity to any employee.
   D.   Use Of Roads, Alleys: Persons within the cemetery shall use only the
avenues, roads, walks and alleys, and no one is permitted to walk upon or
across lots or lawns unless it is necessary to do so to gain access to one's
own lot. The cemetery expressly disclaims liability for any injuries sustained
by anyone violating this rule.
   E.   Picking Flowers; Injuring Plants And Structures: Persons visiting the
cemetery or attending funerals are strictly prohibited from picking flowers,
wild or cultivated, breaking or injuring any tree, shrub or plant, or from
writing upon, defacing or injuring any memorials, fence or other structure
within the cemetery grounds.
   F.   Motor Vehicles And Traffic: Motor cars and vehicles must be kept under
complete control at all times. When meeting a funeral procession they must stop
until the procession passes. They must not pass a funeral procession going in
the same direction. Motor cars must not be left with the engine running and the
emergency brakes must be set when the driver is not in his seat. Mufflers must
not be opened nor the horn sounded within the cemetery.
   G.   Prohibited Activities: The following activities are prohibited:
      1.   The driving of motor cars or other vehicles through the gates or in
the cemetery at speeds exceeding five (5) miles per hour;
      2.   Driving any motor car, vehicle or animal across or upon any grave,
lot or lawn, or parking or leaving the same thereon; (1989 Code § 14-203)
      3.   Parking or leaving any motor car or vehicle on any road or driveway
within the cemetery at such location or in such position as to prevent any
other car or vehicle from passing the same, and if so parked or left, the city
will remove the car or vehicle; and
      4.   Making a complete or partial reverse turn of any motor car or
vehicle on any road or driveway within the cemetery;
   H.   Children: Children under fifteen (15) years of age are not permitted
within the cemetery, or its buildings, unless accompanied by a proper person to
take care of them.
   I.   Waste Receptacles; Littering: Receptacles for waste material are
located at convenient places. The throwing of rubbish on the drives and paths,
or on any part of the grounds, or in the buildings, is prohibited.
   J.   Placement Of Articles On Plots: The placing of boxes, shells, toys,
metal designs, ornaments, chairs, settees, vases and similar articles, upon
plots will not be permitted and if so placed, the city reserves the right to
remove them. Exceptions include Memorial Day when flowers, metal boxes,
ornaments, glass vases, and similar objects will be allowed, however, they must
be removed within three (3) days, and on Christmas when blankets and
decorations will be allowed and they must be removed by January 15. All other
exceptions must be cleared by the cemetery superintendent or business manager.
Personal property removed by the business manager will be retained for thirty
(30) days after removal so that property owners may claim their property if
they so desire.
   K.   Conduct: It is of the utmost importance that there should be strict
observance of the proprieties in the cemetery. All persons within the cemetery
should avoid conduct unbecoming a sacred place by:
      1.   Loud or boisterous talking;
      2.   Idling or loafing on the grounds or in any of the buildings;
      3.   Bringing lunches or refreshments into the cemetery or consuming them
on the grounds;
      4.   Peddling or soliciting the sale of any commodity within the
cemetery;
      5.   Placing of signs or notices or advertisements of any kind within the
cemetery;
      6.   Bringing dogs into the cemetery or any of the buildings; and
      7.   Bringing firearms into the cemetery, except by a military escort
accompanying a veteran's funeral or attending memorial services;
   L.   Enforcement Authority: It is the duty of the business manager to see
that the rules and regulations are complied with and it is his duty to see that
order is maintained and to protect and promote the best interests of the
cemetery. To that end, he is authorized to make temporary additional rules
which may be needed, from time to time, to meet emergencies which are not
covered by these rules and regulations; and
   M.   Exceptions, Modifications: Special cases may arise in which the literal
enforcement of a rule may impose unnecessary hardship. The business manager,
therefore, is given the necessary powers to make exceptions, suspensions or
modifications of any of these rules and regulations, without notice, when in
the judgment of the business manager such action appears necessary; and such
temporary exception, suspension or modification shall in no way be construed as
affecting the general application of such rules and regulations. (1989 Code §
11-203; amd. 2002 Code)
7-3-4: LOTS AND LOT OWNERS:
The following provisions are applicable to lots and lot owners:
   A.   Selection; Prices: Persons desiring to purchase lots should visit the
cemetery where the city will aid them in making a selection. Payment for lots
is to be made at city clerk's office and a deed to the lot will be issued upon
receipt of payment. A copy of the prices in effect for lot spaces is kept in
the city clerk's office. Prices are subject to change by the city without
notice. (1989 Code § 11-204; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Subdividing Prohibited: Lots of various sizes are available in the
cemetery and hence such lots will not be subdivided.
   C.   Use Of Lot: No lot shall be used for any other purpose than for the
burial of the human dead.
   D.   Access Areas: No easement or right of interment is granted to any plot
owner in any road, drive, alley or walk within the cemetery, but such road,
drive, alley or walk may be used as a means of access to the cemetery or
buildings, as long as the business manager devotes it to that purpose.
   E.   Rights Of City, Generally: The right to enlarge, reduce, replat or
change the boundaries or grading of the cemetery, or a section or sections,
from time to time, including the right to modify or change the locations of or
remove or regrade roads, drives or walks, or any part thereof, is hereby
reserved. The right to lay, maintain and operate, or alter or change pipe lines
or gutters for sprinkling systems or drainage, is also expressly reserved, as
well as the right to use cemetery property not sold to individual plot owners
for cemetery purposes, including interment of the dead, or for anything
necessary, incidental or convenient thereto. The city reserves to itself and to
those lawfully entitled thereto a perpetual right of ingress and egress over
plots for the purpose of passing to and from other plots.
   F.   Descriptions Of Lots: Descriptions of lots will be in accordance with
the cemetery plats which are kept on file in the city clerk's office.
   G.   Protection From Loss Or Damage: The city will take all reasonable
precautions to protect lot owners, and the property rights of plot owners,
within the cemetery from loss or damage; but the cemetery distinctly disclaims
all responsibility for loss or damage from causes beyond its reasonable
control, and especially, from strikers, malicious mischief makers, explosions,
unavoidable accidents, invasions, insurrections, riots, or order of any
military or civil authority, whether the damage be direct or collateral, other
than as herein provided.
   H.   Address Changes: It is the duty of the plot owner to notify the city of
any change in his post office address.
   I.   Agreement Between City And Owner: The instrument of conveyance of these
rules and regulations and any amendments thereto constitute the sole agreement
between the city and the plot owner. The statement of any employee or agent,
unless confirmed in writing by the city, shall in no way bind the cemetery.
   J.   Community Mausoleum: The city council shall have the power to limit the
placement of a community mausoleum for vaults and crypts for interments in
restricted areas. (1989 Code § 11-204)
7-3-5: CARE OF LOTS:
   A.   Assumed By City: The general care of the cemetery is assumed by the
city.
   B.   Scope Of Care Limited: The general care assumed by the city shall in no
case mean the maintenance, repair or replacement of any memorial, tomb or
mausoleum placed or erected upon lots; nor the doing of any special or unusual
work in the cemetery, including the work caused by the impoverishment of the
soil; nor does it mean the reconstruction of any marble or granite work or any
section or plot, or any portion or portions thereof in the cemetery, caused by
the elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves, vandals, strikers,
malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions,
insurrections, riots, or by the order of any military or civil authority,
whether the damage be direct or collateral, other than as herein provided.
   C.   Additional Care: Lot owners desiring additional care of their lots may
arrange for such care through private contract.
   D.   Perpetual Care Money: The money received for perpetual care shall be
held in trust and invested as provided by law. The city reserves the right,
however, either to handle all investments itself, or to deposit the funds with
any person, company or corporation qualified to act as trustee for such funds.
   E.   Concrete Walkways Prohibited: Concrete walkways will not be allowed
between lots.
   F.   Foundations For Grave Memorials: Foundations for grave memorials must
be of concrete not less than five inches (5") deep and extend no less than six
inches (6") around the circumference of the memorial to give the memorial full
support. Foundation requirements shall pertain to all memorials, including
double stones and family monuments and burial vaults that extend above the
surface of the surrounding terrain. Foundations must be level with surrounding
terrain.
   G.   Enclosures: No plot or lot shall be enclosed in any type of ground
marker, curbing or fencing. (1989 Code § 11-205)
7-3-6: DESCENT OF TITLE:
The laws of the state govern the descent of title to cemetery lots as well as
other matters pertaining to assignment, conveyance devices, trust deeds and
inalienability. The city will assist any lot owner who desires information or
advice on questions pertaining to his lot. (1989 Code § 11-206)
7-3-7: INTERMENTS:
The following provisions are applicable to interments:
   A.   Hours Open: The cemetery will be open to the public from sunrise to
sunset.
   B.   Immediate Burial; Additional Fee: Where immediate burial is required by
laws of the state or under the rules and regulations of the state board of
health, interments may be made on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, but an
additional fee will be added to the regular interment charge, otherwise,
interments will be permitted only Monday through Friday.
   C.   Charge Of Funerals: All funerals upon entering the cemetery shall be
under the charge of city personnel.
   D.   Opening Casket: Once a casket containing a body is within the confines
of the cemetery, no funeral director nor his embalmer, assistant, employee or
agent, shall be permitted to open the casket or to touch the body without the
consent of the legal representative of the deceased or an order signed by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   E.   Permit Required: Funeral directors, upon arrival at the cemetery, must
present the necessary burial permit from the local health office.
   F.   Orders Signed by Owner: All orders for interments in lots must be
signed by the owner of the lot or his legal representative. However, when this
is impossible because such person is absent from the city, telegraphic
permission will be accepted in lieu thereof.
   G.   Remuneration Prohibited: Lot owners shall not allow interments in their
lots in return for remuneration of any kind.
   H.   Number Permitted: No interment of two (2) or more bodies shall be made
in one grave, except in the case of mother and child or two (2) infants in one
casket.
   I.   Location Of Interment: When an interment is to be made in a lot, the
location of such interment shall be designated by the lot owner. Should the lot
owner fail or neglect to make such designation, the city reserves the right to
make the interment in a location designated by the business manager.
   J.   Opening Graves; Persons Permitted: The employees of the city are the
only persons who will be permitted to open graves with the following
exceptions:
      1.   When the cemetery is directed to make a disinterment by the order of
a court of competent jurisdiction and a certified copy of such order has been
filed with the city; or
      2.   When the district judge directs the disinterment for the purpose of
holding an inquest and has filed with the city his signed authorization to
release the body to himself and his lawful agents. In such case, the
disinterment must be made by his lawful agents. City employees will not be
permitted to assist his agents.
   K.   Payment Of Charges: All charges for interment or services in connection
therewith, shall be paid to the city which will issue a receipt therefor upon
request. A fee as set by the city shall be charged for each adult interment and
for each child interment.
   L.   Charges Paid Prior To Interment: Arrangements for the payment of any
and all indebtedness due the city must be made before interment will be made.
   M.   Notice Requirements: The right is reserved by the city to insist upon
at least twenty four (24) hours' notice prior to any interment and at least one
week's notice prior to any disinterment or removal.
   N.   City Council Authority: All interments, disinterments and removals must
be made at the time, and in the manner and upon the charges fixed by the city
council.
   O.   Subject To Orders And Laws: Besides being subject to these rules and
regulations, all interments, disinterments and removals are made subject to the
orders and laws of the properly constituted public authorities.
   P.   Errors: The city will not be responsible for any order given by
telephone or for any mistake occurring from the want of precise and proper
instructions as to the particular space, size of grave, and location in a plot
where interment is desired.
   Q.   Nonliability Of City: The city will not be liable for the interment
permit nor for the identity of the person sought to be interred. (1989 Code §
11-207)
7-3-8: APPLICATION FOR INTERMENT PERMIT:
The following application will be used to secure interment within any cemetery
operated by the city. All other forms previously used are null and void from
this date on. All applications must be submitted with statement signed by
family or friends requesting interment that all fees have been explained and
understood by all parties:
   Application For Interment Permit
The undersigned, duly licensed funeral director, does hereby make application
to the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, for a permit to bury                       ,
deceased, in Sayre cemetery, located in Beckham County, Oklahoma, and in
consideration of the granting of such permit, the funeral director does hereby
covenant, promise and agree:
1. To employ the park department of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, for the sum of
              , to be paid to the city, to open and close the grave, unless
friends or relatives of the deceased desire to open such grave gratis. In no
event shall any grave be opened without the knowledge of the park department
which shall designate the exact location of the grave, this to prevent graves
being opened in walkways or on another's lot. In the event friends or relatives
of deceased open and close the grave, the funeral director shall assume full
responsibility for any claims for damage or otherwise in connection with or
arising out of the opening and/or closing of such grave;
2. To take full charge and supervision of the burial and of the conducting of
the funeral of the deceased. The city shall have no obligation or
responsibility whatsoever with reference thereto;
3. To assume complete responsibility for any damages, or any claim of any
nature whatsoever, arising from or out of the conduct of the funeral, and all
things and occurrences in connection therewith; it being hereby distinctly
agreed and understood that the funeral director shall absolve and hold harmless
the city of Sayre of and from all liability and for all occurrences in
connection with the performance and conduct of the funeral;
4. To reduce the possibility of accidents at the grave sites, all opened graves
shall have planks placed on both sides and across both ends of the opened
graves for the protection of all concerned. If planks are not used, funeral
director in charge assumes all responsibility; and
5. To conform and comply in all respects, with the rules, resolutions and
regulations of the city of Sayre relative to the use and operation of the
cemetery.
Dated this                day of               ,     .
                       
Funeral home
By:                     
(1989 Code § 11-210)
7-3-9: PLANTS AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Permission Required; Application: There shall be no individual beds of
shrubbery or flowers allowed on the grounds except by special permission of the
city. Application for the same should be accompanied by a scaled sketch of the
proposed planting indicating the position and names of the plants and shrubs
suggested.
   B.   Removal By City: The city shall have authority to remove all floral
designs, flowers, weeds, trees, shrubs, plants, or herbage of any kind, from
the cemetery as soon as, in the judgment of the city personnel, they become
unsightly, dangerous, detrimental or diseased, or when they do not conform to
the standard maintained or as heretofore set forth in the rules and
regulations.
   C.   Nonliability Of City: The city shall not be liable for floral pieces,
baskets or frames in which, or to which, such floral pieces are attached beyond
the acceptance of such floral pieces for cemetery services held in the
cemetery.
   D.   Damage: The city shall not be responsible for frozen plants or herbage
of any kind or for plantings damaged by the elements, thieves or by other
causes beyond its control.
   E.   Notification Of Resale: The owner shall notify the city clerk's office
any time his lot is resold.
   F.   Removal Prevented: The city reserves the right to prevent the removal
of any flowers, floral designs, trees, shrubs, plants or herbage of any kind
unless the city gives consent. (1989 Code § 11-208)
7-3-10: ENFORCEMENT OF RULES:
The city is hereby empowered to enforce all rules and regulations and to
exclude from the cemetery any person violating the same. The city shall have
charge of the grounds and buildings, including the conduct of funerals,
traffic, employees, plot owners and visitors and at all times shall have
supervision and control of all persons in the cemetery. (1989 Code § 11-209)
CHAPTER 4
LIBRARY SERVICES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose
7-4-2: Library Established
7-4-3: Governing Board; Appointment And Terms
7-4-4: Removal Of Board
7-4-5: Election Of Officers; Rules
7-4-6: Librarian; Appointment, Duties
7-4-7: Funds, Deposits
7-4-8: Audit And Financial Report
7-4-9: Appropriations
7-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is the desire and intent of the governing body of the city to provide free
public library service to the residents of the city for the benefit of the
city, the state and the nation. (1989 Code § 11-301)
7-4-2: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
The Sayre public library is hereby established. (1989 Code § 11-302)
7-4-3: GOVERNING BOARD; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The public library shall be governed by a
board of five (5) members appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by
the city council. Appointments to the library board shall be made on the basis
of ability, understanding of the total responsibilities and objectives of
public libraries, and an active interest in the attainment of these goals. All
library board members shall serve thereon without compensation.
   B.   Term; Vacancies: The directors of the library board shall hold office
for a term of five (5) years from the first day of May following their
appointment, and their terms shall be staggered. At the first regular meeting
of the board, the directors shall cast lots for respective terms of one year,
two (2) years, three (3) years, four (4) years and five (5) years; thereafter
the terms of all directors shall be five (5) years. Vacancies in the library
board of directors shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments
for the remainder of the unexpired term. One of the directors of the library
board shall be a member of the city council, who shall be a voting member of
the library board. (1989 Code § 11-303; amd. 2002 Code)
7-4-4: REMOVAL OF BOARD:
Any board member may be removed by the appointing authority for misconduct,
failure to attend board meetings, or other neglect of duty. (1989 Code § 11-
304)
7-4-5: ELECTION OF OFFICERS; RULES:
Immediately after the initial appointments and annually thereafter, the library
board members shall meet and organize by electing one of their members as
chairman, and by the election of such other officers as they deem necessary.
They may adopt such laws, rules and regulations for their own guidance and for
the government of the library as may be expedient and not inconsistent with
this chapter and the laws of the state. (1989 Code § 11-305)
7-4-6: LIBRARIAN; APPOINTMENT, DUTIES:
The board shall, with the approval of the mayor and the city council, appoint a
suitable librarian and assistants. The board shall recommend an annual budget
to the governing body of the city. The board shall set the policy of the
library, supervise the care for the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed,
leased or set aside for the library. (1989 Code § 11-306; amd. 2002 Code)
7-4-7: FUNDS, DEPOSITS:
All monies received by the board on account of the operation of the library
shall be paid to the city treasurer, who shall deposit the same in the
municipal treasury. Such monies shall be paid out only upon warrants authorized
for the governing body of the city. (1989 Code § 11-307)
7-4-8: AUDIT AND FINANCIAL REPORT:
The library board shall submit an annual financial and statistical report to
the mayor and city council and to the Oklahoma department of libraries for each
fiscal year ending June 30. The report shall include an accounting for monies
received and expended and such other statistics about library use, collections
and staff which may be deemed necessary to account for their trust. (1989 Code
§ 11-308)
7-4-9: APPROPRIATIONS:
The mayor and city council shall annually appropriate to the library board from
funds available to the city such monies as are deemed necessary to operate and
maintain the public library for the education and cultural enrichment of the
citizens of the city. (1989 Code § 11-309)
CHAPTER 5
RAILROADS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Improvement To Streets And Alleys By Railroads
7-5-2: Sidewalks Constructed By Railroads
7-5-3: Climbing On Trains
7-5-4: Speed Of Trains
7-5-5: Blocking Streets Prohibited
7-5-1: IMPROVEMENT TO STREETS AND ALLEYS BY RAILROADS:
When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks running in a
general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto, the railway
company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet (2') on either
side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to be, or
has been, improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the city
council by motion or resolution may approve. In case any railway company shall
occupy an alley with its track or tracks, such company shall improve, gutter,
drain, and grade such alley, and shall surface or pave it with the same
material which is to be, or has been, used on the alley, or with such other
satisfactory material as the city council by motion or resolution may approve.
When the tracks of any railroad company cross any street that is being or has
been paved, the company shall pave as much of the street as is occupied by its
track or tracks and two feet (2') on each side, using the same material as is
to be, or has been, used on the street, or such other satisfactory material as
the city council by motion or resolution may approve. When more than one track
crosses a street within a distance of one hundred feet (100'), measuring from
inside rail to inside rail, the railroad company shall grade, gutter, drain and
curb the street area between its tracks, and surface or pave it with the same
material which the city is to use or has used, on the street. Railroad
companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in a good state of
repair at all times. (1989 Code § 16-101)
7-5-2: SIDEWALKS CONSTRUCTED BY RAILROADS:
Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights of way, using
the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the streets when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company shall
keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times. (1989 Code § 16-
102)
7-5-3: CLIMBING ON TRAINS:
It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any manner attach
himself to, any railway train, locomotive or railway car, while such is in
motion within the city, unless such person is acting in line of duty, or to
board any train or railroad car, including a passenger, freight or other car,
except with a proper ticket or the permission of the person in charge of the
train or car or in line of duty. (1989 Code § 16-103)
7-5-4: SPEED OF TRAINS:
It is unlawful for any person to operate or drive a train or railroad engine at
a speed greater than fifteen (15) miles per hour within the city. (1989 Code §
16-104; amd. 2002 Code)
7-5-5: BLOCKING STREETS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for the directing officer or person in charge of any railroad
train or railroad car to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such
manner as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period
of time longer than five (5) minutes. (1989 Code § 16-105)
CHAPTER 6
TREES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: City Tree Board
7-6-3: Spacing Of Trees
7-6-4: Distance From Street Corners, Fireplugs
7-6-5: Utilities
7-6-6: Public Tree Care
7-6-7: Trimming; Corner Clearance
7-6-8: Arborists License And Bond
7-6-9: Interference Prohibited
7-6-10: Review By City Council; Appeal
7-6-11: Penalty
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
LARGE TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation with a total
height in excess of forty feet (40') at maturity.
MEDIUM TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation with a total
height of thirty (30) to forty feet (40') at maturity.
PARK TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
SMALL TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation with a total
height of thirty feet (30') or less at maturity.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city. (Ord. 642, 3-15-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
7-6-2: CITY TREE BOARD:
   A.   Established: There is hereby created and established a city tree board
for the city, which shall consist of five (5) members, citizens and residents
of the city, who shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by
the city council. (Ord. 642, 3-15-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Term Of Office: The terms of the five (5) persons to be appointed by
the mayor shall be three (3) years, except that the term of two (2) of the
members appointed to the first board shall be for only one year and the term of
two (2) members of the first board shall be for two (2) years. In the event
that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his/her successor
shall be appointed for the remaining portion of the term.
   C.   Compensation: Members of the board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 642, 3-15-1994)
   D.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of the board to study, investigate,
counsel and develop and/or update annually a written plan for the care,
preservation, trimming, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs in public ways, streets and alleys. Such plan will be presented
annually to the city council and upon their acceptance and approval shall
constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the city. (Ord. 642,
3-15-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   The owner of land abutting on any street may, when acting within the
provisions of this chapter, prune, spray, plant or remove trees in that part of
the street abutting his/her land not used for public travel. A street tree
permit shall be required only when the owner of property intends to deviate
from the rules and regulations contained in this chapter.
      3.   The board, when requested by the city council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
   E.   Operation: The board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business. (Ord. 642, 3-15-
1994)
7-6-3: SPACING OF TREES:
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three (3) species
size classes listed in section
7-6-1 of this chapter, and no tree may be planted closer than the following:
small trees, thirty feet (30'); medium trees, forty feet (40'); large trees,
fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 642, 3-15-1994)
7-6-4: DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS, FIREPLUGS:
No street trees shall be planted closer than twenty feet (20') of any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No
street trees shall be planted closer than ten feet (10') of any fireplug. (Ord.
642, 3-15-1994)
7-6-5: UTILITIES:
No street tree other than those defined as "small trees" in section
7-6-1 of this chapter may be planted under or within five (5) lateral feet of
any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility. (Ord.
642, 3-15-1994)
7-6-6: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
The city shall have the right to plant, trim, spray, preserve and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure safety when servicing
city utilities or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
The city tree board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any public tree
or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or
other public improvements, or because of infestation by any pest. (Ord. 642, 3-
15-1994)
7-6-7: TRIMMING; CORNER CLEARANCE:
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right of way within the city
shall trim the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the light from
any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that
there shall be a clear space of ten feet (10') above the surface of the street
or right of way. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of
the public. The city shall have the right to trim any tree or shrub on private
property; when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light, or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control
device or sign. (Ord. 642, 3-15-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
7-6-8: ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND:
It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the commercial
business or occupation of trimming, pruning, treating or removing street or
park trees, without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee
shall be annually in advance in such amount as established by resolution of the
city council; provided, however, that no license shall be required of any
public service company or city employee doing such work in the pursuit of their
public services endeavors, except, in the spraying of herbicides they shall
have a state certification applicator's license. Before any license shall be
issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability
insurance in the minimum amounts of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) bodily
injury and five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) property damage indemnifying the
city or any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such
endeavors as herein described. (Ord. 642, 3-15-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
7-6-9: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city tree board, or any of its agents or servants while engaged in and about
the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any
street trees, park trees, or trees on privates grounds, as authorized in this
chapter. (Ord. 642, 3-15-1994)
7-6-10: REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL; APPEAL:
The city council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions
of the city tree board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the
city tree board to the city council who may hear the matter and make a final
decision. (Ord. 642, 3-15-1994)
7-6-11: PENALTY:
It is an offense for any person, firm, association or corporation to violate,
or fail to comply with, any of the provisions of this chapter, and upon
conviction thereof, such person, firm, association or corporation shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 642, 3-15-1994)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1-1: Lease To Sayre Public Works Authority
8-1-1: LEASE TO SAYRE PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY:
The city has leased its water, sewer and garbage collection systems to the
Sayre public works authority, a public trust. The trust has power to establish
rates and rules for operation of the water and sewer system. The establishment
of the trust by resolution replaces any and all ordinances in conflict with
this motion. For all motions and resolutions passed by the public works
authority, please refer to the minutes of the Sayre public works authority.
(1989 Code § 17-101)
CHAPTER 2
INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-2-3: Private Sewage Disposal
8-2-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-2-5: Discharges
8-2-6: Interceptors Required For Grease And Oil
8-2-7: Preliminary Treatment At Owner's Expense
8-2-8: Industrial Wastes Requiring Control Manholes
8-2-9: Sampling And Testing Of Industrial Wastes
8-2-10: Special Discharge Agreements For Industrial Wastes
8-2-11: Rate Schedule For Sewer Use
8-2-12: Protection Of System From Damage
8-2-13: Inspectors
8-2-14: Penalty
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CITY: Refers to the geographical area within the corporate limits of the city
of Sayre.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
HEALTH OFFICER: The county health officer for the county.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet in a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of
surface or ground water.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solutions.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer into which storm, surface and ground waters are not
intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL/MAY: Shall is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of sewage works or water pollution control
of the city, or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (1989 Code § 17-201)
8-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Unlawful Deposit: It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or
permit to be deposited, in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human
or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Natural Outlets; Treatment Required: It is unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Prohibited Facilities: Except as hereinafter provided, it is unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for disposal of sewage. (1989 Code § 17-202)
   D.   Distance Requirement: The owner of any house, building or property used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within
the city and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer
of the city, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter ninety (90) days
after date of official notice to do so; provided, that the public sewer is
within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the property line. (1989 Code § 17-
202; amd. 2002 Code)
8-2-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Permitted: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available
under the provisions of section
8-2-2 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter. (1989
Code § 17-203)
   B.   Application For Permit; Fee: Before commencement of construction of a
private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on
a form furnished by the city. The applicant shall supplement the application
with any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by
the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee in such amounts as established
by resolution of the city council shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
   C.   Inspections: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
superintendent when work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within twenty
four (24) hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent.
   D.   Compliance Required: The type, capacities, location and layout of a
private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the
department of health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(1989 Code § 17-203; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Availability Of Public Sewer System: At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as
provided in subsection D of this section, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private sewage facilities shall be abandoned and filled
with suitable material.
   F.   Manner Of Operation: The owner shall operate and maintain the private
sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to
the city.
   G.   Health Officer Requirements: No statement contained in this article
shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be
imposed by the health officer.
   H.   Cleaning Of System When Abandoned: When a public sewer becomes
available, the building sewer shall be connected to the sewer within sixty (60)
days and the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and
filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt. (1989 Code § 17-203)
8-2-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
superintendent.
   B.   Types Of Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer
permits:
      1.   Residential/Commercial: For residential and commercial service; and
      2.   Industrial: For service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. (1989 Code § 17-204)
   C.   Application For Permit; Fee: In either case, the owner or his agent
shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee for residential or commercial or industrial building
sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
The amount of the fee shall be in such amount as established by resolution of
the city council. (1989 Code § 17-204; amd. 2002 Code)
   D.   Costs And Expenses; Indemnification: All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   E.   Separate Sewer Required; Exception: A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building; except, where one building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard
or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   F.   Existing Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, upon examination and test by the
superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   G.   Code Requirements:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF manual of practice shall apply.
      2.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
the appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF manual of practice. All
such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent
before installation.
   H.   Elevation: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   I.   Surface Runoff Or Ground Water Prohibited: No person shall make
connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or
other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer.
   J.   Connection; Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the superintendent or his representative.
   K.   Barricades; Restoration:
      1.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
      2.   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(1989 Code § 17-204)
8-2-5: DISCHARGES:
   A.   Storm Water Discharge Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
superintendent to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. (1989 Code §
17-205)
   B.   Other Discharges Prohibited: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) as CN in the wastes
as discharged to the public sewer;
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; or
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders. (1989 Code § 17-206)
   C.   Discharges Prohibited In Certain Instances: No person shall discharge
or cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters
or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the superintendent that such
wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have
an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb
or public property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the superintendent will give consideration to
such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F);
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (32° -
150°F);
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
superintendent;
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials;
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of
dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate;
         b.   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirement in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs", as defined in section
8-2-1 of this chapter; and
      10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters. (1989 Code § 17-207)
   D.   Unlawful Discharges; Action Of City: If any waters or wastes are
discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters
contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection
C of this section, and which in the judgment of the superintendent may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
section
8-2-10 of this chapter. If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent,
and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(1989 Code § 17-208)
8-2-6: INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED FOR GREASE AND OIL:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. (1989 Code § 17-209)
8-2-7: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT AT OWNER'S EXPENSE:
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense. (1989 Code § 17-210)
8-2-8: INDUSTRIAL WASTES REQUIRING CONTROL MANHOLES:
When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (1989
Code § 17-211)
8-2-9: SAMPLING AND TESTING OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "standard methods for the examination of
water and wastewater", published by the American public health association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs
are determined from periodic grab samples. (1989 Code § 17-212)
8-2-10: SPECIAL DISCHARGE AGREEMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(1989 Code § 17-213)
8-2-11: RATE SCHEDULE FOR SEWER USE:
The rates for the residential, commercial or industrial users shall be
established by the Sayre public works authority. (1989 Code § 17-214)
8-2-12: PROTECTION OF SYSTEM FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of disorderly
conduct. (1989 Code § 17-215)
8-2-13: INSPECTORS:
   A.   Authority To Enter For Inspection: The superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The superintendent or his representatives shall
have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment. (1989 Code § 17-216)
   B.   Responsibility For Safety: While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in subsection A of this section, the
superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
8-2-8 of this chapter.
   C.   Authority To Enter City Easements: The superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds
a duly negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on the easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (1989
Code § 17-218)
8-2-14: PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Continuance Of Violation; Misdemeanor: Any person who shall continue
any violation beyond the time limit provided for in this section, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Liability: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall also become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (1989 Code § 17-219)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Official
9-1-2: Building Code Adopted
9-1-3: Additions, Insertions And Changes
9-1-4: Fire Limits
9-1-5: Building Permit Required
9-1-1: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Designation; Appointment: There shall be a department of building
inspection, the head of which shall be the building official. Unless he
appoints the city manager or another to be the building official, the mayor
shall himself be ex officio building official. The building official shall have
supervision and control of the department, including any inspectors whom the
mayor may appoint, subject to confirmation by the city council, such as the
building inspector, the plumbing inspector, the electrical inspector, the
mechanical inspector and other inspectors of the building and construction
trades.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The department of building inspection shall see that
all laws, ordinances and other regulations relating to building, plumbing,
electrical and mechanical installations are properly enforced, except as may be
otherwise provided by applicable law or ordinance. The building inspector, the
plumbing inspector, the electrical inspector, the mechanical inspector and any
other such inspectors, under the supervision and control of the building
official, shall have such powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
applicable law or ordinance. (1989 Code § 5-101; amd. 2002 Code)
9-1-2: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Sayre, being marked and designated as the
international building code, 2006 edition (this code shall automatically
upgrade every 3 years or as new codes published by the International Code
Council become effective), including appendix chapters A through K (see
international building code section 101.2.1, 2006 edition), as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the building code of
the city of Sayre, in the state of Oklahoma for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such
structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said building code on file in the office of
the city of Sayre are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-11-18A, 11-18-2008)
9-1-3: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: Sayre
Section 1612.3. Insert: Sayre
Section 1612.3. Insert: November 18, 2008
Section 3410.2. Insert: November 18, 2008
(Ord. 08-11-18A, 11-18-2008)
9-1-4: FIRE LIMITS:
The city council may hereinafter establish such fire limits as it deems
appropriate and necessary for the proper enforcement and application of this
chapter. (1989 Code § 5-105)
9-1-5: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: No building or other structure shall be built,
enlarged, altered or moved without a permit from the building official
therefor, as provided in the city's building code.
   B.   Application: Application for building permits (including permits for
moving buildings) shall be made to the building official; and the applicant
shall provide such plans, specifications and other data as may be necessary for
the building official to determine whether the permit shall be issued.
   C.   Fees: Fees for building permits shall be set by the city council by
ordinance or resolution. (1989 Code § 5-106)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 10-2-1A of this code.
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-2-1-1: Additions, Insertions And Changes
9-2-2: Plumbers' Registration, Permits, Fees
9-2-3: Certificate Of Registration
9-2-4: Revocation Of Registration
9-2-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in
the office of the city clerk of the city of Sayre, being marked and designated
as the international plumbing code, 2006 edition (this code shall automatically
upgrade every 3 years or as new codes published by the International Code
Council become effective), including appendix chapters A through G, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
plumbing code of the city of Sayre, in the state of Oklahoma regulating and
governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said plumbing
code on file in the office of the city of Sayre are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-2-1-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-11-18F, 11-18-2008)
   B.   Term Defined: The words "plumbing inspector" shall be used the same as
the words "administrative authority". (1989 Code § 5-201; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Licensing And Bonding: Any person, firm or corporation who engages in
the plumbing business must meet the requirements for licensing and bonding as
set forth in the plumbing code. (1989 Code § 5-201; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 08-11-
18F, 11-18-2008)
9-2-1-1: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: Sayre
Section 106.6.2. Insert: Full amount with application
Section 106.6.3. Insert: 50% within 180 days of permit
Section 108.5. Insert: No less than $75 and no more than $150.00
Section 305.6.1. Insert: Minimum 18 inches in two locations
Section 904.1. Insert: Minimum 12 inches
(Ord. 08-11-18F, 11-18-2008)
9-2-2: PLUMBERS' REGISTRATION, PERMITS, FEES:
   A.   Definitions: The phrases and words "journeyman plumber", "plumber's
apprentice", "plumbing contractor" and "plumbing", when used in the ordinances,
regulations and other official acts and communications of this city, shall have
the meanings respectively prescribed for them by 59 Oklahoma Statutes sections
1001 through 1020, unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   B.   Registration Required: It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business, trade or occupation of a plumbing contractor (otherwise known as a
master plumber), or of a journeyman plumber, or of a plumber's apprentice, in
this city unless he is registered with the plumbing inspector and has a current
and valid certificate of registration issued by the plumbing inspector.
   C.   State License Required: Only persons who have a current and valid
license as plumbing contractors or as journeyman plumbers issued by the state
commissioner of health as provided by 59 Oklahoma Statutes section 1001 et
seq., may register as such with the plumbing inspector. Only persons who have
current and valid certificates of registration as plumber's apprentices issued
by the state commissioner of health as provided by the same, may register as
such with the plumbing inspector. (1989 Code § 5-202)
9-2-3: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Issuance; Expiration: Upon application to the plumbing inspector, the
plumbing inspector shall register such applicants and issue to them
certificates of registration. An applicant for registration as a plumbing
contractor shall also furnish a bond as prescribed below. Such city
certificates shall not be valid after the termination or expiration of the
state licenses or certificates. Registration certificates of plumbing
contractors and journeyman plumbers issued as provided herein shall expire on
June 30 each year; and the city certificates of plumber's apprentices shall
expire when their state certificates expire. (1989 Code § 5-203)
   B.   Expiration; Fee: An applicant for a plumbing contractor's certificate
of registration, after complying with the laws of the state and with the
established city code, and after payment of the fee hereinafter specified,
shall be registered by the city clerk. The registration shall expire June 30,
but may be renewed from year to year. The initial registration fee and the
annual renewal fee shall be in such amounts as established by resolution of the
city council. Plumbing contractors desiring to renew their registration shall
furnish the same evidence of compliance with state licensing laws and the same
bond is required as set forth by the city code. (1989 Code § 5-203; amd. 2002
Code)
   C.   Reregistration: A qualified person may reregister as a plumbing
contractor, a journeyman plumber or a plumber's apprentice, in the same manner
as in the original instance, and upon the same conditions.
   D.   Cancellation: All plumbing contractors registrations not renewed within
ninety (90) days after the date of expiration thereof shall be canceled, and a
new application for registration must be made and the fee for new registration
paid.
   E.   Journeyman Plumbers; Waiver Of Fee: There is no fee for registration as
a journeyman plumber or a plumber's apprentice, but annual registration is
required and evidence of bonding will be presented to the clerk upon
registration. (1989 Code § 5-203)
9-2-4: REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION:
The city council, upon at least ten (10) days' notice and adequate opportunity
for a public hearing, may revoke the city registration of any plumbing
contractor or journeyman plumber for violating any provision of the ordinances
or regulations of the city relating to the installation of plumbing or for any
other cause specified in 59 Oklahoma Statutes section 1010. (1989 Code § 5-204)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Electrical Equipment Defined
9-3-2: Electrical Code Adopted
9-3-2-1: Additions, Insertions And Changes
9-3-3: Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., Standards
9-3-4: Electrical Inspector
9-3-5: Special Rulings By Inspector
9-3-6: Wiring In Fire Zone
9-3-7: Extensions Of Certain Installations
9-3-8: Overhead Service Conductors
9-3-9: Pilot Light Required For Irons In Mercantile Occupancies
9-3-10: Rigid Conduits
9-3-11: Branch Circuits
9-3-12: Refrigeration; Basement Installations
9-3-13: Installations; Permit, Exceptions, Fee
9-3-14: Inspection Of Installations
9-3-15: Approval Required Prior To Concealing
9-3-16: Work Roughed In
9-3-17: Approval Required Prior To Connection
9-3-18: Annual Inspection In Fire Zone; Corrections
9-3-19: Inspector May Enter Buildings
9-3-20: Responsibility For Damages
9-3-21: Electrician's License Required
9-3-22: Bond For Electrical Contractors
9-3-23: When License Or Bond Not Required
9-3-24: Revocation Of License
9-3-1: ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DEFINED:
The term "electrical equipment", as used in this chapter, refers to electrical
conductors, metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances,
apparatus, and any electrical material of any nature, kind or description, to
be installed within or on any building or structure. (1989 Code § 5-301)
9-3-2: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, being marked and designated as the
ICC electrical code - administrative provisions, 2006 edition (this code shall
automatically upgrade every 3 years or as new codes published by the
International Code Council become effective), as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the electrical code of the city of
Sayre, in the state of Oklahoma for regulating the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of electrical systems
as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of
fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said electrical code on file in the office of the Sayre
city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes,
if any, prescribed in section
9-3-2-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-11-18B, 11-18-2008)
9-3-2-1: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Sayre
Section 404.2. Insert: None applicable at present time.
(Ord. 08-11-18B, 11-18-2008)
9-3-3: UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES, INC., STANDARDS:
All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, the statutes of the state and any orders, rules and
regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical standards
for safety to persons or to property. Unless by this chapter, by a statute of
the state or any orders, rules or regulations issued by authority thereof, a
specific type or class of electrical equipment is disapproved for installation
and use, conformity with the standards of Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.,
shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety
to persons or to property. (1989 Code § 5-303)
9-3-4: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
There shall be an electrical inspector who may be the building official
appointed in this title. (1989 Code § 5-304)
9-3-5: SPECIAL RULINGS BY INSPECTOR:
The electrical inspector shall have the authority to make special rulings, when
circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life and property and the
improvement of electrical installations, but in all cases, persons engaged in
the installing of electrical equipment and holding an electrical license must
be notified by letter of these decisions. (1989 Code § 5-305)
9-3-6: WIRING IN FIRE ZONE:
All wiring hereafter installed within the fire limits must be placed in
metallic raceways. Armored cable or flexible conduit is to be used only when in
the judgment of the electrical inspector it is impractical to install other
metallic raceways. Exceptions to the requirements of this section are specified
in section
9-3-7 of this chapter. (1989 Code § 5-306)
9-3-7: EXTENSIONS OF CERTAIN INSTALLATIONS:
Wiring installations, consisting of concealed knob and tube, cleat, armored
cable or flexible conduit that were installed previous to the adoption of this
code, when, in the judgment of the electrical inspector, they are in a safe
condition, may have extensions of the same kind of work made to these
installations. (1989 Code § 5-307)
9-3-8: OVERHEAD SERVICE CONDUCTORS:
Overhead service conductors shall be installed in approved metallic raceways,
unless approved service entrance cable is used; and raceway shall be continuous
to, and securely attached to service equipment. Installations of four (4)
circuits or more shall have three (3) wire service. No service conductor to be
less than No. 6 B&S gauge. (1989 Code § 5-308)
9-3-9: PILOT LIGHT REQUIRED FOR IRONS IN MERCANTILE OCCUPANCIES:
In all mercantile occupancies where electric irons are used, they must be
installed with approved pilot light. If pilot light is in an enclosure such as
an alteration room, an additional light must be installed in a visible position
outside the enclosure. (1989 Code § 5-309)
9-3-10: RIGID CONDUITS:
For mechanical security and continuity to ground, rigid conduit shall be
provided with two (2) lock nuts, one inside and one outside the equipment to
which it is attached. Metallic service equipment, rigid conduit, electrical
metallic tubing, flexible conduit, metallic switch, outlet receptacle and
junction boxes shall have a conductive coating or finish. Watertight couplings
shall be employed for joining electrical metallic tubing. (1989 Code § 5-310)
9-3-11: BRANCH CIRCUITS:
In residential and mercantile occupancies, lighting branch circuits shall be
confined to one thousand (1,000) watts, and not more than eight (8) outlets per
circuit will be allowed within the fire limits. Branch circuit conductors shall
not be smaller than No. 12. Type C lamp cord will not be permitted in the
kitchen of restaurants or like places where grease accumulates, nor in part of
a building where live poultry is confined. (1989 Code § 5-311)
9-3-12: REFRIGERATION; BASEMENT INSTALLATIONS:
A circuit of not less than No. 12 wire shall be installed in basements in any
area subject to floods. Ground connections shall not be made in toilets,
adjacent to salt storage, acid vapors or in any location where the grounding
conductor and fitting is likely to become corroded. (1989 Code § 5-312)
9-3-13: INSTALLATIONS; PERMIT, EXCEPTIONS, FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to install any
electrical wiring, fixtures, equipment or apparatus in or on any building or
structure in the corporate limits of this city or make extensions to any
existing electrical installations without first securing a permit from the
electrical inspector.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for electrical permits shall be
made to the electrical inspector; and the applicant shall provide such plans,
specifications and other data as may be necessary to determine whether the
permit shall be issued. (1989 Code § 5-313)
   C.   Fee For Permit: No permit shall be issued until the applicant shall
have paid a permit fee in such amounts as established by resolution of the city
council. (1989 Code § 5-313; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-14: INSPECTION OF INSTALLATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to inspect all electrical
equipment installed within the city. (1989 Code § 5-314)
9-3-15: APPROVAL REQUIRED PRIOR TO CONCEALING:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or individual to
conceal or cause to be concealed, any electrical equipment, used for electric
light, heat or power, until it is known by the person that the installation has
been approved by the electrical inspector; and a tag in the switch cabinet, or
attached to the service equipment properly signed and dated, so stating, will
be sufficient notice. (1989 Code § 5-315)
9-3-16: WORK ROUGHED IN:
   A.   Requirements: New or old work "roughed in" shall include all electrical
equipment to make the installation complete, be free from unintentional
grounds, with joints properly made up, ready for attachment of fixtures, drop
lights and appliances. (1989 Code § 5-316)
   B.   Inspection: After making inspection of new work "roughed in", the
electrical inspector shall leave a tag or notice in the switch cabinet or
attached to the service equipment, plainly indicating whether the work has been
approved and is ready to be concealed, or that the installation is not standard
and must not be covered until approved by the electrical inspector. (1989 Code
§ 5-317)
9-3-17: APPROVAL REQUIRED PRIOR TO CONNECTION:
It is unlawful for any public service corporation, individual, light, heat or
power company to connect, or cause to be connected, any service or building,
for the supply of electric current for light, heat or power, until they have
been notified by the electrical inspector that electrical work has been
inspected and approved and is ready for electric service. (1989 Code § 5-318)
9-3-18: ANNUAL INSPECTION IN FIRE ZONE; CORRECTIONS:
The electrical inspector shall have the power to make an annual inspection of
all electrical equipment in the fire zone of the city. When any electrical
installations are found to be in an unsafe or hazardous condition, the
electrical inspector shall notify the person, firm or corporation where such
electrical conditions exist to correct same and place in a safe condition. Any
person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to make correction of hazardous
or unsafe electrical installations, after having been notified by the
electrical inspector, within a designated time to be determined by the
electrical inspector, shall be fined according to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day after the expiration of the time designated to
make corrections shall constitute a separate offense. When hazardous or unsafe
electrical conditions exist and any person, firm or corporation fails to make
corrections after having been notified, the electrical inspector shall have the
authority to discontinue the electrical service. (1989 Code § 5-319; amd. 2002
Code)
9-3-19: INSPECTOR MAY ENTER BUILDINGS:
The electrical inspector, while in the discharge of his official duty, shall
have the authority to enter any building or premises at any reasonable hour,
for the purpose of making any electrical inspection, reinspection, or test of
the electrical equipment contained therein or its installation; and any person
interfering with the electrical inspector shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 5-320; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-20: RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to affect the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or to property
caused by any defect therein, nor shall the city or any officer or employee of
the city, be held as assuming such liability by reason of the inspection or
reinspection as herein provided or by reason of the approval or disapproval of
any equipment authorized herein. (1989 Code § 5-321)
9-3-21: ELECTRICIAN'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or vocation of
electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or apprentice electrician without
a license as such secured from the electrical inspector. The initial fee for an
electrical contractor's license, to be paid to the city clerk shall be in such
amount as established by resolution of the city council. The fee for renewal
shall be in such amounts as established by resolution of the city council, and
must be renewed within ninety (90) days following expiration of the license.
After the expiration, an application for a new license must be requested and
the initial fee paid again. Except in case of renewal, an applicant for an
electrical contractor's license or a journeyman electrician's license must have
passed an examination given by the electrical inspector and demonstrating the
qualifications of the applicant for the license applied for. All such licenses
shall expire June 30. This license is not transferable to any other individual
or company. (1989 Code § 5-322; amd. 2002 Code)
9-3-22: BOND FOR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Required: Every person receiving a license as an electrical contractor
shall file with the city clerk a bond in the sum of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), executed with a surety company authorized to do business in the
state, and conditioned that:
      1.   The principal will install all electrical wiring, fixtures,
appliances, and equipment in accordance with the law and the ordinances and
other regulations of the city relating to electrical installations and in a
workmanlike manner;
      2.   The principal shall, without further cost to the person for whom the
work was done, remedy any defective or faulty work caused by poor workmanship
or inferior or nonstandard material; and
      3.   The city will be fully indemnified and held harmless from any and
all costs, expenses or damage resulting from the performance of his work as an
electrical contractor or apprentice electrician, as the case may be.
   B.   Approval Of Bond: The bond must be approved by the building inspector.
No license shall be issued to any such person until the bond shall have been
filed and approved. Any such license issued shall be valid only while the bond
is in effect. (1989 Code § 5-323)
9-3-23: WHEN LICENSE OR BOND NOT REQUIRED:
For the installing of bell, telephone or signal systems not using over twelve
(12) volts, no license or bond will be required, but the installation of the
same must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances of the city.
(1989 Code § 5-324)
9-3-24: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
After adequate opportunity for a hearing, the city council may revoke the
license of an electrical contractor, an apprentice electrician or a journeyman
electrician for any of the following causes:
   A.   Serious or repeated violations of the laws, ordinances or other
regulations relating to electrical installations;
   B.   Grossly unethical conduct in connection with the electrical trade or
business;
   C.   Poor workmanship or service; or
   D.   Installing inferior or substandard materials, fixtures or equipment.
A request that the license be revoked may be presented to the city council by
the electrical inspector or by any aggrieved person. (1989 Code § 5-325)
CHAPTER 4
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Fuel Gas Code Adopted
9-4-2: Additions, Insertions And Changes
9-4-1: FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Sayre, being marked and designated as the
international fuel gas code, 2006 edition (this code shall automatically
upgrade every 3 years or as new codes published by the International Code
Council become effective), including appendix chapters A through D (see
international fuel gas code section 101.3, 2006 edition), as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the fuel gas code of
the city of Sayre, in the state of Oklahoma for regulating and governing fuel
gas systems and gas fired appliances as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said fuel gas code
on file in the office of the city of Sayre are hereby referred to, adopted, and
made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-11-18D, 11-18-2008)
9-4-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: City of Sayre
Section 106.5.2. Insert: Full amount with application
Section 106.5.3. Insert 50% within 180 days of permit
Section 108.5. Insert: No less than $75 and no more than $150.00
(Ord. 08-11-18D, 11-18-2008)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Residential Code Adopted
9-5-1-1: Additions, Insertions And Changes
9-5-2: Enforcement Official
9-5-3: Board Of Appeals
9-5-4: Right Of Entry
9-5-1: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Sayre, being marked and designated as the
international residential code, 2006 edition (this code shall automatically
upgrade every 3 years or as new codes published by the International Code
Council become effective), including appendix chapters 1-9 (see international
residential code section R102.5, 2006 edition), as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the residential code of
the city of Sayre, in the state of Oklahoma for regulating and governing the
construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family
dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three
(3) stories in height with separate means of egress as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
residential code on file in the office of the Sayre city clerk are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
9-5-1-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-11-18H, 11-18-2008)
9-5-1-1: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section R101.1 Insert: Sayre
Table R301.2 (1) Insert: see Table Climatic & Geographic Designs
Section P2603.6.1 Insert: Minimum of 18 inches
Section P3103.1 Insert: 12 inches minimum
(Ord. 08-11-18H, 11-18-2008)
9-5-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
   A.   Established:
      1.   The office of housing enforcing official is hereby created.
      2.   The building inspector shall be responsible for the enforcement of
this chapter.
      3.   The building inspector shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to
confirmation of the city council. His appointment shall continue during good
behavior and satisfactory service. He shall not be removed from office except
for cause after full opportunity has been given him to be heard on specific
charges. (1989 Code § 5-502)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the housing enforcing official to
enforce all laws and provisions specified in the residential code. (1989 Code §
5-504; amd. Ord. 08-11-18H, 11-18-2008)
9-5-3: BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Created; Membership; Appointment: There is hereby created a board of
housing appeals which shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the mayor,
subject to confirmation of the city council. One member shall be appointed to
serve one year, two (2) members to serve two (2) years, and two (2) members to
serve three (3) years.
   B.   Voting: This board shall act by majority vote of the members present.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The board shall have the power and be required to
hold public hearings in deciding appeals where it is alleged there is an error
in law or fact in any order or decision of the housing enforcing official in
the enforcement of this chapter. (1989 Code § 5-503)
9-5-4: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The building inspector, in the discharge of his official duties, and upon
proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour. (1989 Code § 5-505)
CHAPTER 6
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-6-2: Additions, Insertions And Changes
9-6-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Sayre, being marked and designated as the
international mechanical code, 2006 edition (this code shall automatically
upgrade every 3 years or as new codes published by the International Code
Council become effective), including appendix chapters A and B (see
international mechanical code section 101.2.1, 2006 edition), as published by
the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the mechanical code
of the city of Sayre, in the state of Oklahoma, regulating and governing the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
mechanical systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said mechanical code on file in
the office of the city of Sayre are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-11-18E, 11-18-2008)
9-6-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: Sayre
Section 106.5.2. Insert: Full amount with application
Section 106.5.3. Insert: 50% within 180 days of permit
Section 108.5. Insert: No less than $75.00 and no more than $150.00
(Ord. 08-11-18E, 11-18-2008)
CHAPTER 7
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-7-1: Property Maintenance Code Adopted
9-7-2: Additions, Insertions And Changes
9-7-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Sayre, being marked and designated as the
international property maintenance code, 2006 edition (this code shall
automatically upgrade every 3 years or as new codes published by the
International Code Council become effective), as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the property maintenance code of the
city of Sayre, in the state of Oklahoma for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such
existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said property maintenance code
on file in the office of the Sayre city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-7-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-11-18G, 11-18-2008)
9-7-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: Sayre
Section 103.5. Insert: Full amount with application
Section 302.1.1. No person, either real property owner, lessee, renter, tenant,
or occupant, shall allow to remain, keep, store or maintain any couches,
chairs, tables, or other furniture not manufactured for outdoor use in any
yard, alley, front porch, patio, unenclosed rear porch or any other outside
area. Unless aforementioned furniture was placed in an outside location
designated for collection in accordance with the city's garbage and refuse
collection policy and not placed there more than 24 hours prior to said
collection time.
Section 302.4. Insert: 12 inches in height
Section 304.14. Insert: May 1st thru October 30th
Section 602.3. Insert: October 15th to May 1st
Section 602.4. Insert: October 15th to May 1st
(Ord. 08-11-18G, 11-18-2008; amd. Ord. 11-744, 11-15-2011)
CHAPTER 8
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS 1
SECTION:
9-8-1: Compliance With Law
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-12-7 of this code.
9-8-1: COMPLIANCE WITH LAW:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture, fabricate,
assemble, install or repair any system, container, apparatus or appliance to be
used for the transportation, storage, dispensing or utilization of liquefied
petroleum gas, or to transport, handle or store such gas, unless such person
has complied with and complies with all provisions of the law and ordinances
relating thereto, and has any license or permit which may be required by state
law. The national fire protection association pamphlet No. 58, liquefied
petroleum gases, storage and handling, also adopted by the state liquefied
petroleum gas board, and any subsequent editions adopted by the city council,
shall have full force and effect within this city and is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference. Any violation of these rules and regulations shall
be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the city and shall be punished
accordingly. (1989 Code § 5-601; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ENERGY CONSERVATION
SECTION:
9-9-1: Energy Conservation Code Adopted
9-9-2: Additions, Deletions And Changes
9-9-1: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED:
The international energy conservation code, 2000 edition, and any subsequent
editions adopted by the city council is hereby adopted as the energy
conservation code of the city. Each and all of the regulations of the energy
conservation code are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a part
of this code by reference, as if fully set out in this code, with the
additions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this chapter. At least
one copy of the code is kept on file in the office of the city clerk. (1989
Code § 5-801; amd. Ord. 623, 4-21-1992; 2002 Code)
9-9-2: ADDITIONS, DELETIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections of the international energy conservation code are hereby
revised as follows:
   A.   The city of Sayre shall be inserted for the name of the jurisdiction;
and
   B.   The penalty for violation of the code shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 5-802; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 10
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION
SECTION:
9-10-1: Definitions
9-10-2: Inspector Appointed
9-10-3: Permit Required
9-10-4: Application For Permit; Fee
9-10-5: Issuance Or Refusal Of Permit
9-10-6: Termination Of Permit
9-10-7: Insurance And Bond
9-10-8: Location Requirements
9-10-9: Deeper Drilling
9-10-10: Derrick And Rig
9-10-11: Pits
9-10-12: Casing
9-10-13: Setting And Cementing Casing
9-10-14: Valves And Blow-Out Preventers
9-10-15: Drill Stem Tests
9-10-16: Premises Clean And Sanitary
9-10-17: Mufflers Required
9-10-18: Storage Tanks And Separators
9-10-19: Fencing
9-10-20: Venting And Flaring Of Gas
9-10-21: Disposal Of Salt Water
9-10-22: Violation Of Laws Or Regulations
9-10-23: Penalty
9-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the words and phrases as defined in this
section and as used in this chapter shall have, and be construed to have and
include, the following meanings:
LEASE: Any tract of land subject to an oil, gas and mineral lease, or other oil
and gas development contract, or any unit composed of several tracts and leases
but operated as one lease, and any tract of land in which the minerals are
owned by an operator or someone holding under it or him, but which, due to the
fee royalty ownership, is developed and operated as a separate tract.
PERMITTEE: The person to whom is issued a permit for the drilling and operation
of a well under this chapter, and his or its administrators, executors, heirs,
successors and assigns.
PERSON: Includes both the singular and the plural; and shall mean and include
any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, club,
society, cooperative, trust, municipal corporation or political subdivision
whatsoever.
TECHNICAL TERMS: All technical or oil and gas words or phrases used herein and
not specifically defined herein, shall have that meaning customarily
attributable thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas industry.
WELL: Includes and means any hole or holes, bore or bores, to any sand,
formation, strata or depth for the purpose of producing and recovering any oil,
gas, liquid hydrocarbon, or any of them. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-2: INSPECTOR APPOINTED:
The city manager shall serve as oil and gas inspector. It shall be the duty of
the oil and gas inspector to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 657,
11-1-1996)
9-10-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person acting either for himself or
acting as agent, employee, independent contractor, or servant of any other
person, to commence to drill, or to operate, any well within the city limits or
on lands owned and controlled by the city or to work upon or assist in any way
in the perfection of operation of any such well, without a permit for the
drilling and operation of such well having first been issued by the authority
of the city council in accordance with the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 657,
11-1-1996)
9-10-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Every application for a permit to drill and operate a well shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant or by some person duly authorized to sign the same on
his behalf, and it shall be filed with the city clerk and be accompanied with a
filing fee in cash in such amount as established by resolution of the city
council. No application shall request a permit to drill and operate but one
well. The application shall include full information, including the following:
(Ord. 657, 11-1-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
   A.   The date of the application;
   B.   Name of the applicant;
   C.   Address of the applicant;
   D.   Proposed site of the well, including:
      1.   Name of the fee owner;
      2.   Name of the lease owner;
      3.   Brief description of the land; and
   E.   Type of derrick to be used. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-5: ISSUANCE OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Issuance: The city council, within twenty (20) days after the filing of
the application for a permit to drill and operate a well, shall determine
whether or not the application complies in all respects with the provisions of
this chapter, and if it does, the city council shall then fix the amount of the
principal of the bond and insurance provided for in section
9-10-7 of this chapter, and after such determination shall issue a permit for
the drilling and operation of the well applied for. Each permit issued under
this chapter shall:
      1.   By reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied verbatim
in the permit;
      2.   Specify the well location with particularity to lot number, block
number, name of addition or subdivision, or other available correct legal
description;
      3.   Contain and specify that the term of such permit shall be for a
period of one year from the date of the permit and as long thereafter as the
permittee is engaged in drilling operations with no cessation of such
operations for more than ninety (90) days, or oil and gas is produced in
commercial quantities from the well drilled pursuant to such permit; provided,
that if at any time after discovery of oil or gas, the production thereof in
commercial quantities shall cease, the term shall not terminate if the
permittee commences additional reworking operations within ninety (90) days
thereafter, and if they result in the production of oil or gas, so long
thereafter as oil or gas is produced in commercial quantities from the well;
      4.   Contain and specify such conditions as are by this chapter
authorized;
      5.   Specify the total depth to which the well may be drilled, not
exceeding the projected depth; and
      6.   Contain and specify that no actual operations shall be commenced
until the permittee shall file and have approved an indemnity bond in the
designated principal amount as so determined by the city council and
conditioned as specified in section
9-10-7 of this chapter.
   B.   Signatures Required: The permit, in duplicate originals, shall be
signed by the city manager, and prior to delivery to the permittee shall be
signed by the permittee (with one original to be retained by the city and one
by the permittee); and when so signed shall constitute the permittee's drilling
and operating license and the contractual obligation of the permittee to comply
with the terms of such permit, and such bond, and this chapter.
   C.   Refusal: If the permit for the well be refused, or if the applicant
notifies the city council in writing that he does not elect to accept the
permit as tendered and wishes to withdraw his application, or if the bond of
the applicant be not approved and the applicant notifies the city council in
writing that he wishes to withdraw his application, then upon the happening of
the events, the cash deposit provided for to be filed with the application
shall be returned to the applicant, except that there shall be retained
therefrom by the city one hundred dollars ($100.00) as a processing fee. (Ord.
657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-6: TERMINATION OF PERMIT:
When a permit shall have been issued, the same shall terminate and become
inoperative without any action on the part of the city unless within ninety
(90) days from the date of issuance actual drilling of the well shall have
commenced. The cessation for a like period of the drilling operations or the
cessation of the production shall operate to terminate and cancel the permit,
and the well shall be considered as abandoned for all purposes of this chapter,
and it shall be unlawful thereafter to continue the operation or drilling of
such well without the issuance of another permit. (1988 Code § 5-707; amd. 2002
Code)
9-10-7: INSURANCE AND BOND:
   A.   Required: In the event a permit be issued by the city council under the
terms of this chapter for the drilling and operation of a well, no actual
drilling operations shall be commenced until the permittee shall file with the
city clerk a bond and a certificate of insurance, as follows:
      1.   A bond in the principal sum of such number of dollars as has been so
determined by the council, but not to be less than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00). The bond to be executed by a reliable insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, as surety, and with applicant as
principal, running to the city for the benefit of the city and all persons
concerned, conditioned that the permittee will comply with the terms and
conditions of this chapter in the drilling and operation of the well. The bond
shall become effective on or before the date the same is filed with the city
clerk and remain in force and effect for at least a period of six (6) months
subsequent to the expiration of the term of the permit issued, and in addition,
the bond will be conditioned that the permittee will promptly pay off fines,
penalties and other assessments imposed upon permittee by reason of his breach
of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this chapter, and that the
permittee will promptly restore the streets and sidewalks and other public
property of the city, which may be disturbed or damaged in the operations, to
their former condition. The permittee will promptly clear all premises of all
litter, trash, waste, and other substances used, allowed or occurring in the
drilling or producing operations, and will, after abandonment, grade, level and
restore the property to the same surface condition, as nearly as possible, as
existed when operations for the drilling of the well or wells were first
commenced. The permittee will indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and
all liability growing out of or attributable to the granting of such permit. If
at any time the council shall deem any permittee's bond to be insufficient for
any reason, it may require the permittee to file a new bond. If, after
completion of a well permittee has complied with all the provisions of this
chapter, such as to removing derrick and clearing premises, the permittee may
apply to the city council to have the bond reduced to a sum of not less than
twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for the remainder of the time the
well produces without reworking. During reworking operations, the amount of the
bond shall be increased to the original amount.
      2.   In addition to the bond required in subsection A1 of this section,
the permittee shall carry a policy or policies of standard comprehensive public
liability insurance, including contractual liability covering bodily injuries
and property damage, naming the permittee and the city, in an insurance company
authorized to do business within the state, the policy or policies in the
aggregate shall provide for the following minimum coverage:
   Bodily injuries   $2,000,000.00 one person
      5,000,000.00 one accident
   Property damage   500,000.00
   B.   Filing: Permittee shall file with the city clerk certificates of
insurance as above stated, and shall obtain the written approval thereof by the
city manager, who shall act thereon within ten (10) days from the date of such
filing.
   C.   Cancellation: The insurance policy or policies shall not be cancelled
without written notice to the city clerk at least ten (10) days prior to the
effective date of such cancellation. In the event the insurance policy or
policies are cancelled, the permit granted shall terminate, and permittee's
rights to operate under the permit shall cease until permittee files additional
insurance as provided herein.
   D.   Reduction: If, after completion of a well, permittee has complied with
all of the provisions of this chapter, such as to removing derrick and clearing
premises, the permittee may apply to the city council to have the insurance
policies reduced as follows:
   Bodily injuries   $100,000.00 one person
      300,000.00 one accident
   Property damage   200,000.00
For the remainder of the time the well produces without reworking. During
reworking operations, the amount of the insurance policy or policies shall be
increased to the original amount. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-8: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Streets And Alleys: No well shall be drilled and no permit shall be
issued for any well to be drilled at any location which is within any of the
streets or alleys of the city and no street or alley shall be blocked or
encumbered or closed in any drilling or production operation, except by special
permit by order of the council; and then only temporarily.
   B.   Residential, Commercial Buildings: No well shall be drilled and no
permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled at any location which is
nearer than three hundred feet (300') of any existing residence or commercial
building without the applicant having first secured the written permission of
the owner or owners thereof, or permits issued for the same. (Ord. 657, 11-1-
1996)
9-10-9: DEEPER DRILLING:
Once any well has either been completed as a producer or abandoned as a dry
hole, it shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to drill such well to
a deeper depth than reached in the prior drilling operations without the
permittee as to such well obtaining a supplement permit after filing a
supplemental application with the city clerk specifying:
   A.   The then condition of the well and the casing therein;
   B.   The proposed casing program to be used in connection with proposed
deepening operations; and
   C.   Evidence of adequate current tests showing that the casing strings in
the well currently pass the same tests as are in this chapter provided for in
case of the drilling of the original well. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-10: DERRICK AND RIG:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to use or operate in
connection with the drilling or reworking of any well within the city, any
engines not equipped with adequate mufflers approved by the oil and gas
inspector; or to permit any drilling rig or derrick to remain on the premises
or drilling site for a period longer than sixty (60) days after completion or
abandonment of the well. At all times from the start of erection of a derrick,
or a mast, or a ginpole, until the well is abandoned and plugged, or completed
as a producer and enclosed with a fence as herein provided, the permittee shall
keep a watchman on duty on the premises at all times; provided, however, it
shall not be necessary to keep an extra watchman on duty on the premises when
other workmen or permittee are on the premises. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-11: PITS:
Either earthen or steel slush pits shall be permitted in connection with the
drilling operation. Pits are to be lined with plastic liner, minimum eight
millimeters (8 mm) thickness. In the event steel pit is used, said pit and its
contents shall be removed from the premises and the drilling site within thirty
(30) days after completion of the well. In the event an earthen slush pit is
used, the same shall be filled and leveled within one hundred eighty (180) days
after completion of the well. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-12: CASING:
All casings, including surface protection and production strings, shall be
either seamless steel or equivalent quality oil well casing. Each production
string of casing must comply with at least the following minimum internal
pressure yield strength, computed in accordance with API standards. (Ord. 657,
11-1-1996)
9-10-13: SETTING AND CEMENTING CASING:
No well shall be drilled within the city limits without properly setting
surface casing to a minimum depth of eight hundred feet (800'). No well shall
be drilled within the city limits without cementing the surface casing by the
pump and plug method with sufficient cement to completely fill all of the
annular space behind such casing to the surface of the ground; and without
cementing the production string by the pump and plug method with sufficient
cement to completely fill all the annular space behind the production string to
at least six hundred feet (600') above the highest oil and/or gas bearing
horizon; and in the event a protection string or case being required under the
terms of this chapter, without cementing the protection string by the pump and
plug method with sufficient cement to completely fill all the annular space
behind the protection string to at least six hundred feet (600') above the
highest oil and/or gas bearing horizon. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-14: VALVES AND BLOW-OUT PREVENTERS:
No well shall be drilled within the city limits without properly equipping the
surface casing when set with at least one master valve, and without properly
equipping the protection casing when set with at least one master valve and one
fluid-operated ram type blow-out presenter; and without properly equipping the
production casing during completion operations and workover operations with at
least one master valve and at least one fluid- operated ram type blow-out
presenter. On each well drilled, a valve cock or kelly cock shall be installed
on the kelly used. Each blow-out presenter shall test six thousand (6,000)
pounds and its mechanical operation shall be tested at least once every twenty
four (24) hour period, and all control equipment shall be in good working
condition and order at all times. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-15: DRILL STEM TESTS:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person in connection with the drilling or
reworking operations of any well within the city limits to complete any drill
stem test or tests except during daylight hours and then only if the well
effluent during the test is produced through an adequate oil and gas separator
to storage tanks, and the effluent remaining in the drill pipe at the time the
tool is closed is flushed to the surface by circulating drilling fluid down the
annulus and up the drill pipe. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-16: PREMISES CLEAN AND SANITARY:
The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, free from rubbish
of every character, to the satisfaction of the oil and gas inspector of the
city, at all times drilling operations or reworking operations are being
conducted, and as long thereafter as oil or gas is being produced therefrom.
(Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-17: MUFFLERS REQUIRED:
Motive power for all operations after completion or drilling operations shall
be electricity or properly muffled gas, gasoline or diesel engines; such
mufflers to be approved by the oil and gas inspector prior to their use. (Ord.
657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-18: STORAGE TANKS AND SEPARATORS:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to use, construct or operate in
connection with any producing well within the city limits any crude oil storage
tanks except to the extent of two (2) steel tanks for oil storage, not
exceeding five hundred (500) barrels capacity each, and so constructed and
maintained as to be vapor tight and each surrounded with an earthen fire wall
at such distance from the tanks as will under any circumstance hold and retain
at least one and one-half (11/2) times the maximum capacity of such tank. A
permittee may use, construct and operate a steel conventional separator, and
such other steel tanks and appurtenances as are necessary for treating oil,
with each of such facilities to be so constructed and maintained as to be vapor
tight. Each oil gas separator shall be equipped with both a regulation pressure
relief safety valve and a bursting head. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-19: FENCING:
Any person who completes any well as a producer shall have the obligation to
enclose the well, together with its surface facilities and storage tanks, by a
substantial smooth net wire fence sufficiently high and properly built so as to
ordinarily keep persons and animals out of the enclosure with all gates thereto
to be kept locked when the permittee or his employees are not within the
enclosure. It is provided, however, that in noncongested areas the oil and gas
inspector, in his discretion, may waive the requirement of any fence or may
designate the type of fence to be erected. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-20: VENTING AND FLARING OF GAS:
No person engaged in drilling or operating any well shall permit gas to escape
or be vented into the air unless the gas be flared and burned. All gas flared
and burned from a torch, pipe or any other burning device, within the city
limits, must be done in such manner so as not to constitute a fire hazard to
any property; and the location of the torch, pipe or other burning device, the
construction thereof, the maintenance thereof, and the operation thereof, shall
at all times be in full compliance with such regulations as may from time to
time be issued by the oil and gas inspector. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-21: DISPOSAL OF SALT WATER:
The permittee shall make adequate provisions for the disposal of all salt water
or other impurities which he may bring to the surface, such disposal to be made
in such manner as not to contaminate the water supply, present or prospective,
or to injure surface vegetation. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-22: VIOLATION OF LAWS OR REGULATIONS:
Any violation of the laws of the state or any rules, regulations or
requirements of any state or federal regulatory body having jurisdiction in
reference to drilling, completing, equipping, operating, producing, maintaining
or abandoning an oil or gas well or related appurtenances, equipment or
facilities, or in reference to fire walls, fire protection, blow-out
protection, safety protection, or convenience of persons or property, shall
also be a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable in accordance with
the provisions hereof. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
9-10-23: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction therefor, shall be punished
by a fine as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's continuation of any such violation shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 657, 11-1-1996)
CHAPTER 11
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
9-11-1: Policy
9-11-2: Definitions
9-11-3: Unlawful Practice
9-11-4: Discrimination
9-11-5: Exemption
9-11-6: Administration
9-11-7: Education And Conciliation
9-11-8: Complaints
9-11-9: Investigations
9-11-10: Enforcement By Private Persons
9-11-11: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
9-11-12: Prevention Of Intimidation In Fair Housing Cases
9-11-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations, for
fair housing throughout the city. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993)
9-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein:
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under section
9-11-4 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designated or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (Ord. 631, 5-
18-1993)
9-11-3: UNLAWFUL PRACTICE:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section and section
9-11-5 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in subsection 9-11-4A of this chapter shall apply
to:
   A.   All dwellings, except as exempted by subsection B of this section.
   B.   Nothing in subsection 9-11-4A of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner provided that:
         a.   Such private individual owner does not own more than three (3)
such single-family houses at any one time.
         b.   In the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such
sale within any twenty four (24) month period.
         c.   Such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such single-family houses at any
one time.
         d.   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or
rented:
            (1) Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such facilities or
services of any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, of any
employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman or person; and
            (2) Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection 9-11-4A3 of this
chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   C.   For the purposes of subsection B of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      2.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      3.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993)
9-11-4: DISCRIMINATION:
   A.   Sale Or Rental Of Housing: As made applicable by section
9-11-3 of this chapter and except as exempted by subsection 9-11-3B and section
9-11-5 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      1.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, color, religion or
national origin;
      2.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, sex, color, religion or
national origin;
      3.   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or
published, any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, sex, color, religion or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
      4.   To represent to any person because of race, sex, color, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      5.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, sex, color,
religion or national origin.
   B.   Financing Or Housing: It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and
loan association, insurance company or other corporation, association, firm or
enterprise, whose business consists in whole or in part in the making of
commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a
person applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing,
improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against him
in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or
conditions of such loan or other financial assistance, because of the race,
sex, color, religion or national origin of such person or of any person
associated with him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance
or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present
or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or
dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be
made or given; provided, that nothing contained in this subsection shall impair
the scope or effectiveness of the exceptions contained in subsection 9-11-3B of
this chapter.
   C.   Brokerage Services: It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to,
or membership or participation in, any multiple listing service, real estate
brokers' association or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of such
access, membership or participation, on account of race, color, religion or
national origin. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993)
9-11-5: EXEMPTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association or
society, or any nonprofit institution or organization, operated, supervised or
controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association or
society, from the limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a dwelling which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin. Nor shall
anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993)
9-11-6: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Authority: The authority and responsibility for administering this
chapter shall be in the chief executive officer of the city.
   B.   Delegation Of Duties: The chief executive officer may delegate any of
these functions, duties, and powers to employees of the city or to boards of
such employees, including functions, duties and powers with respect to
investigating, conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying,
reporting or otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this
chapter. The chief executive officer shall by rule prescribe such rights of
appeal from the decisions of his hearing examiners or to other officers in the
city, to boards of officers or to himself, as shall be appropriate and in
accordance with law.
   C.   Administration Of Programs And Activities: All executive departments
and agencies shall administer their programs and activities relating to housing
and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the chief executive officer to further such
purpose. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993)
9-11-7: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the chief executive officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purpose of this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry, and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor
with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of
enforcement. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993)
9-11-8: COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Filing: Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the chief executive officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the chief executive officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
chief executive officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a
complaint, or within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any period of
reference under subsection C of this section, the chief executive officer shall
investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved
whether he intends to resolve it. If the chief executive officer decides to
resolve the complaint, he shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the
alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned. Any employee of the chief executive who shall make public any
information in violation of this provision shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereon shall be fined not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than one year. (Ord. 631,
5-18-1993; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Time Limit For Filing; Amendments: A complaint under subsection A of
this section shall be filed within one hundred eighty (180) days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be in
writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him and with the leave of the chief executive officer, which shall be
granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his answer
at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   Filing With State: If within thirty (30) days after a complaint is
filed with the chief executive officer, the chief executive officer has been
unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter the person aggrieved
may, within thirty (30) days thereafter, file a complaint with the secretary of
the department of housing and urban development. The chief executive officer
will assist in this filing.
   D.   Civil Action: If the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance within thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person
aggrieved may, within thirty (30) days hereafter commence a civil action in any
appropriate court, against the respondent named in the complaint to enforce the
rights granted or protected by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to
the subject of the complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing
practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent
from engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   E.   Burden Of Proof: In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section,
the burden of proof shall be on the complainant.
   F.   Termination Of Efforts: Whenever an action filed by an individual shall
come to trial, the chief executive officer shall immediately terminate all
efforts to obtain voluntary compliance. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993)
9-11-9: INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Authority Of Chief Executive Officer: In conducting an investigation,
the chief executive officer shall have access at all reasonable times to
premises, records, documents, individuals, and other evidence or possible
sources of evidence, and may examine, record and copy such materials and take
and record the testimony or statements of such persons as are reasonably
necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided, however, that the
chief executive officer first complies with the provisions of the fourth
amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The chief executive
officer may issue subpoenas to compel his access to or the production of any
such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place. The chief executive
officer may administer oaths.
   B.   Subpoenas: Upon written application to the chief executive officer, a
respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of
subpoenas by and in the name of the chief executive officer to the same extent
and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas issued at the request of a
respondent shall show on their face the name and address of such respondent and
shall state that they were issued at his request.
   C.   Witness, Mileage Fees: Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the chief
executive officer shall be entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are
witnesses in proceedings in United States district courts. Fees payable to a
witness summoned by a subpoena at the request of a respondent shall be paid by
him.
   D.   Revocation Or Modification Of Subpoena: Within five (5) days after
service of a subpoena upon any person, such person may petition the chief
executive officer to revoke or modify the subpoena. The chief executive officer
shall grant the petition if he finds that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that
compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   E.   Petition For Enforcement: In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a
subpoena, the chief executive officer or other person at whose request it was
issued may petition for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the
district in which the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was
served, or transacts business.
   F.   Failure To Comply: Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend
and testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or
other evidence, if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or
lawful order of the chief executive officer, shall be fined not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Any
person who, with intent thereby to mislead the chief executive officer, shall
make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report,
account, record or other document submitted to the chief executive officer
pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or shall wilfully neglect or fail to
make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in such reports,
accounts, records or other documents, or shall wilfully mutilate, alter, or by
any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
   G.   Role Of City Attorney: The city attorney shall conduct all litigation
in which the chief executive officer participates as a party or an amicus
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993)
9-11-10: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   Authority: The rights granted by sections
9-11-3 and
9-11-4 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local
courts of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred; provided, however, that the court shall continue such civil case
brought pursuant to this section or subsection 9-11-8D from time to time before
bringing it to trial if the court believes that the conciliation efforts of the
chief executive officer are likely to result in satisfactory settlement of the
discriminatory housing practice complained of in the complaint made to the
chief executive officer, and which practice forms the action in court; and
provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance or rental consummated prior to
the issuance of any court order issued under the authority of this chapter and
involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant without actual notice
of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the
provisions of this chapter, shall not be affected.
   B.   Relief: The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any
permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order,
and may award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable
attorney fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the said
plaintiff in the opinion of the court is not financially able to assume said
attorney fees. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993)
9-11-11: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by sections
9-11-3 and
9-11-4 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993)
9-11-12: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force,
wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of his race, color, religion or national origin, and
because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings; or
   B.   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in subsection A of this section; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
      3.   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in subsection A of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 631, 5-18-1993; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 12
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Purpose
9-12-2: Definitions
9-12-3: Permit Required
9-12-4: Approval Process
9-12-5: Permit Conditions
9-12-6: Collocation Requirements
9-12-7: Facility Standards
9-12-8: Alternative Structures Standards
9-12-9: Specific Standards
9-12-10: Zoning Requirements
9-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations for telecommunications facilities are:
   A.   To facilitate the provision of telecommunications services throughout
the city;
   B.   To enhance the ability to provide telecommunications services to the
community quickly, effectively and efficiently;
   C.   To encourage the location of towers in nonresidential zoned districts;
   D.   To minimize the total number of towers in the community;
   E.   To encourage the joint use of new and existing tower locations;
   F.   To ensure that towers are located in areas that minimize adverse
impacts;
   G.   To ensure towers and antennas are configured in a way that minimizes
adverse visual impacts by careful design, appropriate siting and landscape
screening;
   H.   To encourage the attachment of antennas on existing structures;
   I.   To consider public health and safety effects of telecommunications
facilities;
   J.   To avoid damage to adjacent properties from tower failure through
careful engineering and locating of tower structures; and
   K.   To protect residential areas and lands by minimizing adverse impacts of
towers. (Ord. 699, 8-22-2000)
9-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY SUPPORT FACILITIES: Support buildings, structures and equipment
cabinets for telecommunications facilities containing electrical and mechanical
equipment and devices used for the reception of or transmission of voice, data,
image, graphic and video programming information between or among points by
wire, cable, fiber optic, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities.
ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE: Clock towers, bell steeples, building structures
or building equipment normally maintained above the roof line of a structure,
light poles and similar alternative design mounting structures. An alternative
tower structure must be compatible with the natural setting and surrounding
structures, must camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas and/or towers
and be a minimum of thirty feet (30') in height. This term also includes any
antenna or antenna array attached to the alternative tower structure.
ANTENNA: Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
BACKHAUL NETWORK: The lines that connect a provider's cell sites to one or more
cellular telephone switching offices, and/or long distance providers, or the
public switched telephone network.
COLLOCATION: The use of a single mount or tower on the ground by more than one
carrier or several antennas on an existing building or structure by more than
one carrier.
FCC: Federal communications commission.
FFA: Federal aviation administration
FALL ZONE: The area of ground within a prescribed radius from the base of a
telecommunications tower and antenna. The fall zone is the area within which
there is a potential hazard of falling debris or collapsing material.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including,
but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennas,
towers, alternative tower structures, electronic and other appurtenances used
to transmit, receive, distribute, provide or offer telecommunications services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The providing or offering for rent, sale or lease,
or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice, data,
image, graphic and video programming information between or among points by
wire, cable, fiber optic, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities, with or without benefits or any closed transmission medium.
TOWER: Any structure designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting one or more antennas, including self- supporting lattice towers, guy
towers or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission
towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, and
other similar structures. This term also includes any antenna or antenna array
attached to the tower structure.
TOWER HEIGHT: When referring to a tower or other alternative tower structure,
the distance measured from the lowest point within ten feet (10') of the
structure to the highest point on the tower or other alternative tower
structure, including the base pad and any antenna. (Ord. 699, 8-22-2000; amd.
2002 Code)
9-12-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Conditions: Telecommunications facilities shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this chapter and the zoning ordinances of the city.
   B.   Permit Required: A telecommunications facility shall obtain a building
permit as a condition for the siting, construction or operation of the
telecommunications facility.
   C.   Applicability; Exceptions: These regulations shall apply to all towers
and antennas as defined, except:
      1.   Any tower or antenna not more than seventy feet (70') in height,
owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator if it
is used exclusively as a receive only facility.
      2.   Any antenna collocated on an existing telecommunications facility,
except as expressly provided in this chapter.
      3.   A telecommunications facility located or collocated on property
which is owned by the city and designated by the city as a site suitable for
location of a telecommunications facility.
   D.   Violation Declared Nuisance: Any violation of this chapter is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. In addition to any other relief or penalty provided
by law, the city may apply to district court for an injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 699, 8-22-2000)
9-12-4: APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Notice Requirements: Except for a proposed telecommunications facility
which will collocate on an existing tower, the applicant for a
telecommunications facility permit shall notify all property owners within
three hundred feet (300') of the outer boundary of the property proposed for
location of the facility. Such notice shall describe the boundaries of the
property included in the application, explain the character and dimensions of
the proposed telecommunications facility and give an address for the property
owners to submit written comments to the applicant. The notice shall include a
drawing or other representation of the visual aspect of the proposed facility.
The notice shall also contain the date, which shall be not less than fifteen
(15) days after the mailing date, set for consideration of the application by
the planning commission. (Ord. 699, 8-22-2000; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Administration Of Process: The permit process will be administered by
the building inspector.
   C.   Fee: Applicant shall pay a fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
to cover the cost of the permit process. That permit fee is nonrefundable even
if the permit is denied.
   D.   Inventory And Map: The applicant must submit to the office of the
building inspector along with his application, an inventory and contour map of
exiting facilities that are within the city and at least five (5) miles from
the city limits, including specific information about the location, height,
coverage, capacity and design of each telecommunications facility,
telecommunication tower and antenna.
   E.   Inventory: The building inspector will develop, update and maintain an
inventory of towers and antennas. (Ord. 699, 8-22-2000)
9-12-5: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
   A.   Abandonment; Discontinuance Of Use: No owner or occupant of property
within the city shall permit, leave or cause to be left on said property any
telecommunications facility which has been abandoned or discontinued for use.
The provider shall remove its facility within ninety (90) days of the date that
it discontinues its use of the facility. If the provider fails to remove the
facility within the required time, the facility shall be deemed to be
abandoned. The city shall have authority to enter the premises and remove the
abandoned facilities. All costs of removal shall be collected from the provider
in the manner provided for summary abatement of nuisance. This requirement
shall apply to collocated facilities unless the collocation agreement provides
for the removal of abandoned facilities by the tower operator.
   B.   Defective, Unsafe Antennas: Defective or unsafe antennas,
telecommunication towers or telecommunication facilities are to be repaired or
removed within ninety (90) days at the owner's or operator's expense. If the
facilities are not operated for a continuous period of twenty four (24) months
they shall be considered abandoned and must be removed within ninety (90) days.
If not removed, the city may remove at the expense of the owner or operator.
   C.   Nonconforming Towers And Facilities: Any telecommunications towers or
telecommunications facilities existing at the time of the adoption of the
ordinance codified herein and not conforming to its provisions shall be
considered legal and nonconforming. These facilities shall be permitted to
remain; provided, that they are not:
      1.   Expanded or increased in height.
      2.   Restored after damage or destruction, by any means, exceeding fifty
percent (50%) of the estimated replacement value.
      3.   A hazard to safety, health or welfare. (Ord. 699, 8-22-2000)
9-12-6: COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: All applicants for a telecommunications facility permit
shall collocate on an existing facility if it is feasible to do so. An existing
facility shall be deemed to be available to the applicant for collocation if
the facility is within the search ring of the applicant or within a reasonable
distance so as to fit into the applicant's design, space is available on the
facility, and the facility owner will lease space to applicant at a reasonable
market rate.
      1.   If the applicant finds collocation is not feasible, it shall submit
to the city a written statement of the reasons for the infeasibility. The city
may retain a technical expert in the field of radio frequency (RF) engineering
to determine whether collocation at the site is feasible. The cost for such a
technical expert will be at the expense of the applicant.
      2.   The city may deny the permit unless the applicant demonstrates to
the city by substantial evidence that existing telecommunications facilities
cannot accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna.
   B.   Availability By Other Service Providers: A telecommunications tower
shall not be permitted unless the owner of the proposed tower certifies to the
city that the tower is available for use by other telecommunications service
providers on a reasonable and nondiscriminatory basis. Towers shall be designed
and built to accommodate a minimum of three (3) telecommunications facilities.
   C.   Master Plans Required: To facilitate collocation and coordination of
telecommunication sites, all telecommunication service providers shall, within
ninety (90) days of the passage of the ordinance codified herein, provide the
city with their respective master antenna plans. Said plans shall include
detailed maps showing the locations of all telecommunications towers serving
any portion of the city and indicting their coverage areas.
   D.   Updates To Plans: Providers shall also provide the city with any
updates to the above documents within ninety (90) days of their creation. (Ord.
699, 8-22-2000)
9-12-7: FACILITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Exterior: The exterior of equipment buildings and/or metal equipment
cabinets visible from residential areas or public rights of way must have a
neutral aggregate finish or be painted to reflect the color and character of
adjoining structures or blend with adjacent landscaping and other surroundings.
   B.   Design: At the telecommunications facility, the design of the buildings
and related structures used in conjunction with telecommunications facilities
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend the telecommunications facilities to the natural
setting and the built environment.
   C.   Anchoring Of Guy Wires: Guy wires must be anchored no closer than
twenty five feet (25') from any property line. Guy wires shall not cross or
encroach any overhead telephone or electric power lines.
   D.   Height: The height of a single antenna tower shall not exceed one
hundred fifty feet (150'). The height of a tower with two (2) or more antennas
shall not exceed one hundred ninety five feet (195'). Maximum height shall be
measured from ground at base to highest point on tower and antenna. A
conditional use permit will be required for any structure that exceeds one
hundred ninety five feet (195').
   E.   Interference Prohibited: Applicants will be required to demonstrate
that the planned telecommunications facility will not cause radio frequency
interference with other equipment. Such interference is prohibited.
   F.   Landscape Buffer: All telecommunication facilities must have a five
foot (5') buffer of landscaping outside the perimeter of the fenced facilities.
   G.   Screening: The base of the tower and any accessory support facilities
such as anchored locations of guy wires shall be screened from view with a
solid fence, which shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height.
   H.   Illumination: Illumination of a tower is prohibited except as required
by the FAA. Strobes shall not be used for nighttime lighting. Any required
lighting shall be directed upward and away from adjoining properties. In
addition, the ground level security lighting shall not be more than twenty feet
(20') in height and shall be focused to avoid conflict with vehicle operators
in a public right of way.
   I.   Ingress, Egress; Parking: The applicant will be required to provide
ingress/egress only from approved access points and a minimum of one off-street
parking space per provider.
   J.   Fall Zone/Setback Requirements: All wireless telecommunications towers
and their equipment shelters shall comply with the building setback provisions
of the zoning district in which it is located. In addition, the following
requirements shall be observed:
      1.   In order to ensure public safety, the minimum distance from the base
of any ground-mounted wireless telecommunications service facility to any
property line, road, habitable dwelling, business or institutional use, or
public recreation area, shall be the height of the tower and any antenna
mounted on it. This setback is considered a "fall zone".
      2.   In the event that an existing structure is proposed for mounting an
antenna, a fall zone shall not be required, but the setbacks of the zoning
district shall apply. In the case of preexisting, nonconforming structures,
wireless telecommunications service facilities and their equipment shelters
shall not increase any nonconformities, except as provided in subsection J3 of
this section.
      3.   In reviewing an application for a permit for a wireless
telecommunications facility, the building inspector may reduce the required
setback or fall zone by as much as fifty percent (50%) of the required distance
if he finds that a substantially better design will result from such a
reduction. In making such a finding, the building inspector shall consider both
the visual and safety impacts of the purposed use.
   K.   Signs: Signs on telecommunication towers shall only display the name,
registration and emergency contact number of the tower owner with the exception
of signs required by FCC regulations or signs containing warning or safety
instructions. Signs are limited to four (4) square feet in size and advertising
is expressly prohibited.
   L.   Distance To Another Tower: No tower shall be closer than five hundred
feet (500') from another tower. Any new telecommunications tower in excess of
one hundred eighty feet (180') in height must be located a minimum of one mile
from any existing tower in excess of one hundred eighty feet (180') in height.
   M.   Area Of Support Facilities: Support facilities can be no more than
three hundred fifty (350) square feet of gross floor area, nor more than twelve
feet (12') in height per user. Minimum setback requirements of the zoning
district apply to the accessory support facilities. (Ord. 699, 8-22-2000)
9-12-8: ALTERNATIVE STRUCTURES STANDARDS:
Telecommunications facilities may be permitted on an alternative tower
structure at least thirty feet (30') tall under the following conditions, which
shall be in addition to the requirements of sections
9-12-7 and
9-12-9 of this chapter:
   A.   Zoning Compliance: The facility and its accessory support facilities
comply with all zoning requirements applicable to the alternate structure and
the provisions of section
9-12-7 of this chapter;
   B.   Roof Location; Setback: If the facility or an accessory support
facility is located upon the roof of a structure, each such facility shall be
set back a distance from the roof edge at least equal to the height of the
telecommunications facility unless the facilities are screened or camouflaged
in a manner that is compatible with the surrounding property. The top of the
antenna or other facility shall not be more than thirty percent (30%) of the
height of the alternate structure, or seventy five feet (75') whichever is
less;
   C.   Color, Scale And Character: The alternative structure must be similar
in color, scale and character to adjoining buildings or structures or blend
with the landscaping and other surroundings immediately adjacent to them so as
to generally avoid the creation of unique visual objects that stand out in the
environment; and
   D.   Engineer's Certification: Prior to the installation of any building/
roof mounted telecommunications facility, the applicant shall furnish to the
city a structural engineer's certification that the building structure will
support and not be adversely affected by the proposed antenna and accessory
support facility or equipment. (Ord. 699, 8-22-2000)
9-12-9: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
   A.   Federal, State And Local Standards Applicable: All telecommunications
facilities shall be erected and operated in compliance with current federal
communication commission (FCC) and federal aviation administration (FAA) rules
and regulations and other applicable federal, state and local standards.
   B.   Density Levels: The tower owner is required to provide documentation
that the power density levels do not exceed federally approved levels or
American national standards institute (ANSI) standards, whichever provides the
stricter requirements.
   C.   FCC License: An applicant must provide a copy of its FCC license or, if
the applicant is not an FCC license holder, copy of at least one letter of
commitment from an FCC license holder to locate at least one antenna on the
applicant's tower.
   D.   Protected Areas: Telecommunication facilities shall not be permitted in
any wetland, flood plain, or wilderness or wildlife area, and disturbance to
wetland buffer areas shall be minimized. A telecommunication facility shall not
be permitted in any area where it would threaten endangered species or critical
habitats. Telecommunication facilities shall not be permitted where they would
significantly change surface area, contribute significantly to deforestation or
create significant water diversions. Storm water runoff shall be contained on-
site at all telecommunication facilities. Ground-mounted equipment for personal
wireless service facilities shall not generate noise in excess of fifty (50) db
at the property line. Roof-mounted or side-mounted equipment for personal
wireless service facilities shall not generate noise in excess of fifty (50) db
at ground level at the base of the building closest to the antenna.
   E.   Engineer's Certification: Telecommunications tower structures must
conform to the most current revision of EIA 222 standards. Guyed
telecommunications towers shall be designed and located such that, if the
structure should fall, it will avoid habitable structures and public ways
(refer to subsection 9-12-7J of this chapter). The applicant must supply a
structural engineer's certification of the structural integrity of the tower
and associated equipment. If more than one user is involved, the applicant
shall supply certification that the tower has sufficient integrity to
accommodate more than one user.
   F.   Wind Loads: Telecommunications facilities shall be designed and
engineered to withstand wind loadings and other design standards as defined by
BOCA and ANSI for Beckham County, Oklahoma. (Ord. 699, 8-22-2000)
9-12-10: ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
Applicants for telecommunication facilities must verify zoning compliance.
Conditional use permit approvals may be necessary to gain compliance. (Ord.
699, 8-22-2000)
TITLE 10
PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Citation
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Nature And Application
10-1-4: Definitions
10-1-1: CITATION:
This chapter, in pursuance of the authority granted by the legislature of the
state of Oklahoma in 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 43-101 et seq., 44-101 et
seq., and 45-101 et seq, shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
SAYRE, and may be cited as such. (1989 Code § 12-201)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The regulations contained herein are necessary to encourage the most
appropriate uses of land; to maintain and stabilize the value of property; to
reduce fire hazards and improve public safety and safeguard the public health;
to decrease traffic congestion and its accompanying hazards; to prevent undue
concentration of population; and to create a comprehensive and stable pattern
of land uses upon which to plan for transportation, water supply, sewerage,
schools, parks, public utilities and other facilities. In interpreting and
applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held to be necessary for
the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. (1989 Code § 12-202)
10-1-3: NATURE AND APPLICATION:
   A.   This chapter classifies and regulates the use of land, buildings and
structures within the corporate limits of the city as hereinafter set forth, by
dividing the city into zones and regulating therein the use of land and the use
and size of buildings as to the height and number of stories, the coverage of
the land by buildings, the size of yards and open spaces, the location of
buildings and the density of population.
   B.   Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, no land shall be used and no
building, structure or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed, moved,
altered, enlarged or rebuilt which is designed, arranged or intended to be used
or maintained for any purpose or in any manner except in conformity with the
regulations contained herein. (1989 Code § 12-203)
10-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms and words are to be used
and interpreted as defined hereinafter. Words used in the present tense shall
include the future tense; words in the singular include the plural and words in
the plural number include the singular, except where the natural construction
of the writing indicates otherwise. The word "shall" is mandatory and not
directory.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or a portion of the main building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of the building or
premises.
ACCESSORY USE: A use customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate to the
principal use of land or buildings and located upon the same lot therewith.
ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE: Any cloth, card, paper, metal, glass, wooden,
plastic, plaster, stone sign or other sign, device or structure of any
character whatsoever, including statuary, placed for outdoor advertising
purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building
or structure. The term "placed" shall include erecting, constructing, posting,
painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or otherwise
fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of an
advertising structure shall be determined as the area of the largest cross
section of such structure. Neither directional, warning nor other signs posted
by public officials in the course of their public duties, nor merchandise or
materials being offered for sale shall be construed as advertising signs for
the purpose of this title.
ALLEY: A minor right of way, dedicated to public use, which affords a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A dwelling designed to be occupied by three (3) or more
families living independently of each other (see definition of Dwelling,
Multiple).
AUTOMOBILE: A self-propelled mechanical vehicle designed for use on streets and
highways for the conveyance of goods and people, including, but not limited to,
the following: passenger cars, trucks, buses, motor scooters and motorcycles.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a basement shall be counted as a story when more than one-half (1/
2) of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
BILLBOARD: Any freestanding sign, or a sign that is attached to or part of a
building or other structure and is an off premises sign.
BOARDING HOUSE: A dwelling other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three (3) or more, but not exceeding twenty (20) persons, on a weekly or
monthly basis.
BUILDING: Any structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure for persons,
animals or chattel. When separated by dividing walls without openings, each
portion of such structure so separated, shall be deemed a separate building.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average line of the highest and
lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the highest
point of coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof or the
average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
BUILDING, MAIN: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot
on which it is situated. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be
deemed to be a main building on the lot on which it is situated.
BUILDING SITE: A single parcel of land under one ownership, occupied or
intended to be occupied by a building or structure.
CHILDCARE CENTER: Any place, home or institution which receives three (3) or
more children under the age of sixteen (16) years, and not of common parentage,
for care apart from their natural parents, legal guardians or custodians, when
received for regular periods of time for compensation; provided, however, this
definition shall not include public and private schools organized, operated or
approved under the laws of this state, custody of children fixed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, children related by blood or marriage within the third
degree to the custodial person, or to churches or other religious or public
institutions caring for children within the institutional building while their
parents or legal guardians are attending services or meetings or classes or
other church activities.
COVERAGE: The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including the
area covered by all overhanging roofs.
DISTRICT: Any section or sections of the city for which the regulations
governing the use of land and the use, density, bulk, height and coverage of
buildings and other structures are uniform for each class or kind of building
therein.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof, which is designed or used as living
quarters for one or more families, but not including trailer homes (see
definition of Trailer Home, Mobile Home Or House Trailer).
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by three (3) or
more families living independently of each other, exclusive of hotels or
motels.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by one
family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a group
of not to exceed five (5) persons, not all related by blood or marriage,
occupying a boarding or lodging house, hotel, club or similar dwelling for
group use.
GARAGE APARTMENT: A dwelling unit for one family erected above a private
garage.
GARAGE, PARKING: Any building, or portion thereof, used for the storage of four
(4) or more automobiles in which any servicing which may be provided is
incidental to the primary use for storage purposes, and where repair facilities
are not provided.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or a part of a main building used for
storage purposes only for automobiles used solely by the occupants and their
guests of the building to which it is accessory.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any garage other than a private garage, available to the
public, where vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair or equipping of automobiles.
GASOLINE SERVICE OR FILLING STATION: Any area of land, including structures
thereon, that is used for the retail sale of gasoline or oil fuels, or other
automobile accessories, and incidental services including facilities for
lubricating, hand washing and cleaning, or otherwise servicing automobiles, but
not including painting, major repair or automatic automobile washing or the
sale of butane or propane fuels.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation carried on solely by the inhabitants of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character thereof, and which
is conducted entirely within the main or accessory buildings; provided, that no
trading in merchandise is carried on and in connection with which there is no
display of merchandise or advertising sign other than one nonilluminated
nameplate not more than two (2) square feet in area attached to the main or
accessory building, and no mechanical equipment is used except as is customary
for purely domestic or household purposes. No traffic shall be generated by
such home occupation in greater volumes than would normally be expected in a
residential neighborhood, and any need for parking generated by the conduct of
such home occupation shall be met off the street and other than in a required
front yard; no equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interferences
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no equipment
or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference in any
radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations in line
voltage off the premises. A tearoom or restaurant, rest home or clinic,
doctor's or dentist's office, tourist home, or cabinet, metal or auto repair
shop shall not be deemed a home occupation.
HOTEL: A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing four (4)
or more sleeping rooms occupied or intended or designed to be occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or without
meals for compensation, but not including trailer court or camp, sanatorium,
hospital, asylum, orphanage or building where persons are housed under
restraint.
KENNEL 1 : Any lot or premises on which are kept four (4) or more dogs, more
than six (6) months of age.
LOT: Any plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one main building,
or a group of main buildings, and accessory buildings and uses, including such
open spaces as are required by this title and other laws or ordinances, and
having its principal frontage on a street.
LOT AREA: The total area measured on a horizontal plane, included within lot
lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot which has at least two (2) adjacent sides abutting for their
full lengths on a street; provided, that the interior angle at the intersection
of such two (2) sides is less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, DEPTH: The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT FRONTAGE: That dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a street,
excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINES: The lines bounding a lot.
MEDICAL FACILITIES: Any of the following:
  Convalescent, Rest Or Nursing Home: Health facility, where persons are housed
and furnished with meals and continuing nursing care for compensation.
  Dental Clinic Or Medical Clinic: A facility for the examination and treatment
of ill and afflicted human outpatients; provided, that patients are not kept
overnight except under emergency conditions.
  Dental Office Or Doctor's Office: See definition of Dental Clinic Or Medical
Clinic.
  Hospital: An institution providing health services primarily for human
inpatient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities, central service facilities and staff offices which are an integral
part of the facilities.
  Public Health Center: A facility primarily utilized by a health unit for
providing public health services, including related facilities such as
laboratories, clinics and administrative offices operated in connection
therewith.
  Sanatorium: An institution providing health facilities for inpatient
treatment or treatment and recuperation making use of natural therapeutic
agents.
NONCONFORMING USE: A structure or land lawfully occupied by a use that does not
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: Any sign other than on premises sign.
OFF STREET PARKING SPACE: A parking space not on or extending over any public
easement or right of way.
ON PREMISES SIGN: Any sign which advertises only goods, services, facilities,
events or attractions available on the premises where located, or identifies
the owner or occupant or directs traffic on the premises.
PARKING SPACE: A permanently surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient
in size to store one automobile, together with a permanently surfaced driveway
connecting the parking space with a street or alley.
PRISONS OR OTHER CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES: A facility where six (6) or more
persons are housed under partial or total restraint for incarceration,
detention or other similar purposes.
ROOMING HOUSE: A building where lodging of no more than three (3) rooms is
provided for compensation.
SELF-SERVICE LAUNDRY OR DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT: Any attended or unattended
place, building or portion thereof, available to the general public for the
purpose of washing, drying, extracting moisture from or dry cleaning wearing
apparel, cloth, fabrics and textiles of any kind by means of a mechanical
appliance which is operated primarily by the customer.
STORY: That portion of a building, other than a basement, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall face not more than three feet (3') above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than two-thirds (2/3) of the floor area is
finished off for use. A half story containing independent apartment or living
quarters shall be counted as a full story.
STREET: Any public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of
access of abutting property.
STREET, INTERSECTING: Any street which joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or which is attached to something having a location on the
ground.
TOURIST COURT: An area containing one or more buildings designed or intended to
be used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient persons or
families and intended primarily for automobile transients.
TOURIST HOME: A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations in not more than four
(4) rooms are provided or offered for transient guests for compensation.
TRAILER COURT OR MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land under single ownership
which has been designed or improved or is intended to be used or rented for
occupancy by more than one trailer house or mobile home.
TRAILER, HAULING: A vehicle to be pulled behind an automobile or truck which is
designed for hauling animals, produce, goods or commodities, including boats.
TRAILER HOME, MOBILE HOME OR HOUSE TRAILER: A portable or mobile living unit
used or designed for human occupancy on a permanent basis.
TRAILER HOME OR MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a trailer court
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home.
TRAILER, TRAVEL OR CAMPING: A portable or mobile living unit used for temporary
human occupancy away from the place of residence of the occupants, and not
constituting the principal place of residence of the occupants.
YARD: An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except where otherwise specifically provided in this title that the
building or structure may be located in a portion of a yard required for a main
building. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of the
side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the shortest
horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
YARD, FRONT: A yard located in front of the front elevation of a building line
and extending across a lot between the side yard lines and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the front property line and the outside wall of the
main building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between the lot
lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the rear of the outside wall of the main building. On both corner lots and
interior lots, the rear yard shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the
lot from the front yard.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the outside wall of the side of
the main building. (1989 Code § 12-204; amd. Ord. 678, 1-17-1999; 2002 Code;
Ord. 726, 12-16-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-3A-7 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Permits And Certificates
10-2-2: Uses Permitted On Review
10-2-3: Amendments
10-2-4: Classification Of Annexed Areas
10-2-5: Vacation Of Public Easements
10-2-6: Official Zoning Map
10-2-7: Conflicting Provisions Repealed
10-2-8: Penalty
10-2-1: PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Building Permit 1 :
      1.   This title shall be enforced by a building inspector, acting at the
direction of the mayor. It shall be a violation of this title for any person to
change or permit the change in the use of land, or buildings or structures, or
to erect, alter, move or improve any building or structure until a building
permit has been obtained under the following conditions. (1989 Code § 12-387)
      2.   No building or structure shall be built, enlarged, altered or moved
without a permit from the building inspector. The applicant for a building
permit may be required to furnish the following information:
         a.   A plot plan, drawn to scale, showing the exact size, shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location on the lot
of all existing buildings and structures, and the exact size and location on
the lot of the structure or building proposed to be repaired, altered, erected
or moved, together with a statement of the materials to be used, and the size,
arrangement, number of parking stalls, movement of vehicles and ingress and
egress drives for all off street parking and loading facilities;
         b.   A declaration of the existing and intended use of each existing
and proposed building or structure on the lot and the number of families and
housekeeping units which each existing and proposed building is designed to
accommodate;
         c.   Additional information relating to the proposed improvement
needed to determine compliance with these regulations; and
         d.   A survey prepared by an engineer, registered in the state, of the
boundaries of the lot on which the improvement is proposed to be located. (1989
Code § 12-388)
      3.   a. Fence Permit Required: No fence, barrier, wall, plant or hedge
wall may be erected, modified or installed within the city of Sayre without a
permit issued through the office of the building inspector. Application for
said permit shall be made with the building department on forms prepared and
supplied by the department. The building inspector will grant permits upon
determination that the type of fence, its location, and other specifications
are in full compliance with all provisions of this subsection A3 and all other
city ordinances.
         b.   Height For Safety And Security: No fence or barrier shall exceed
eight feet (8') in height, except in the case of manufacturing plants, truck
and bus parking lots, school yards, electric transformer installations,
commercial storage and auto salvage yards, aboveground storage tanks for
volatile or hazardous materials, livestock pens and dog kennels, all municipal
yards and facilities, road overpasses, ball fields and the like where safety
and security considerations shall require a greater height.
         c.   Yard Fences: Property side line and right of way yard fences and/
or barriers running from the street line or sidewalk line into a property shall
not exceed three feet (3') in height, no solid fence, except a decorative low
profile yard fence, shall be constructed closer to a front yard right of way
line than the primary structure on that lot. In the event that portions of the
front elevation of a primary structure are closer to the front property line
than other portions, it is the intent of this chapter to not allow any solid
fence to be constructed closer to the front property line than the portion of
the front elevation nearest to the right of way yard fence. In no event shall
any portion of the front elevation be blocked by a solid right of way yard
fence.
         d.   Clear View: The building inspector may further restrict or deny
the erection of a fence when its height added to a rise, embankment, wall or
ridge along the same side line would obstruct a clear view up and down the
street from any proximate driveway, walkway, or bicycle path entering the
street, excepting again those situations where the safety and security
requirements of subsection A3b of this section shall override the traffic
considerations of subsection A3c of this section.
         e.   Property Lines: Fences may be erected along property lines as
mutually agreed and described in the application form listed with the building
department.
         f.   Barbed Wire And Electric Fences: All barbed wire fences and
electric fences shall be clearly marked with hunter orange blazes at intervals
of twenty feet (20'). Barbed wire and electric fences shall be permitted and
living fences with sharp thorns may be planted only on those properties in
agriculture zoned districts where livestock numbering five (5) or more are
actually kept and raised and is five (5) acres or greater in size. No type of
fence will be allowed in the city on which a person or domesticated animal
could become impaled, torn, slashed, mutilated or otherwise grievously injured.
         g.   Easements: On any lot subject to an easement, the owner or
applicant shall procure a release in writing from the holder of the easement
and said release shall be attached to the application for a fence filed with
the building department. No fence shall be erected that will prevent the use of
a right of way which has been established by adverse usage.
         h.   Exemption: The foregoing restrictions on fence heights shall not
apply to a fence erected to contain a recreational facility such as baseball
backstops, spectator bleachers, tennis courts, archery ranges, swimming pools
and like installations.
         i.   Noncomplying Fences: All fences and living fences existing at the
time of adoption hereof shall be brought into compliance with this subsection
A3 at the time for their replacement, rebuilding or replanting but no later
than five (5) years from the date this subsection A3 became effective.
         j.   Fine: A fine shall be imposed for violators of this subsection A3
commencing with the tenth day following constructive delivery of a violation
notice from the building department with said fine amounts to be established by
resolution of city council.
         k.   Freestanding Walls: The height restrictions governing fences in
this subsection A3 shall be equally applicable to freestanding walls built in
the city after the date this subsection A3 came into effect. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this subsection A3, no wall shall be built or
maintained at any time where said wall is capped with broken glass, stone
shards, metallic points, or other jagged objects which could do bodily harm to
a person or animal coming into contact with same.
         l.   Severability: The provisions of this subsection A3 are severable.
If any provision of this subsection A3 shall be found to be contrary to law,
then such provision shall not be applied or enforced except to the extent
permitted by law, and all other provisions of this subsection A3 shall remain
in full force and effect.
         m.   Variations: The public safety committee of the city council on
its own initiative or upon application to it by an applicant for a fence
permit, after due notice and open hearing, may vary any provisions of this
subsection A3 as it may deem necessary with respect to any particular case
when, in its opinion, the enforcement thereof would do manifest injustice or
cause undue hardships, provided the decision of the committee shall not
conflict with the spirit of this subsection A3. The burden of proof of the
manifest hardship of injustice shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
         n.   Plans And Specifications: Three (3) sets of plans and such other
data as deemed necessary by the building official of the building inspection
division of the community development department shall be submitted with each
application for a permit under this subsection A3.
         o.   Information On Plans: Plans shall be drawn to scale and shall
include the following:
            (1) Building locations and area to be fenced.
            (2) Legal description of land to be fenced.
            (3) Height of fence and type of materials to be used.
            (4) Intersections of streets, roads, highways, alleys and
driveways.
            (5) Zoning.
            (6) Corner "visibility range", when required, shall be shown.
         p.   Permit Issuance:
(1) The application, plans and other data, filed by an applicant for a permit
under this subsection A3 shall be reviewed by the building official of the
building inspection division of the community development department. If the
work described in an application for a permit and the plans and other data
filed therewith conform to the requirements of this subsection A3 and all other
pertinent laws and ordinances, and the fees providing for permit, inspection
and license fees have been paid, the permit shall be issued to the applicant.
Permit fees shall be set by resolution of the city council.
(2) The plans shall be endorsed by the city in writing or stamped "approved"
and shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization from the
building official of the building inspection division of the community
development department, and all work shall be done in accordance with the
approved plans.
(3) One set of approved plans shall be retained by the building official of the
building inspection division of the community development department for a
period of not less than ninety (90) days from the date of completion of the
work covered (1 set of the approved plans shall be retained by the city clerk
and 1 set of the approved plans shall be returned to the applicant).
         q.   Permit Duration: Every permit issued by the building official of
the building inspection division of the community development department under
the provisions of this subsection A3 shall expire by limitation and become null
and void if the authorized work is not commenced within sixty (60) days from
the date of permitting, or if the authorized work is not completed, or is
abandoned for a period of sixty (60) days. Before the work can be recommenced,
a new permit shall be first obtained and the fee shall be one-half (1/2) the
amount required for a new permit for such work, provided the elapsed time does
not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of permitting in which
case the permittee shall pay a new full permit fee in order to renew the
permit. (Ord. 10-06-15B, 6-15-2010)
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy: No change shall be made in the use of any
land, or building or structure, after the passage date hereof, until a
certificate of occupancy is obtained from the city inspector, for a fee as set
by the city council, that all of the provisions of this title are complied
with. Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection of a new building
or structure, an occupancy permit shall not be required, except where the use
of the building or structure is changed from that for which the permit is
issued or where the intended use is not clearly stated on the building permit.
(1989 Code § 12-389; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-1-5 of this code.
10-2-2: USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW:
The uses listed under the various districts herein as uses permitted on review
are so classified because they more intensely dominate the area in which they
are located than do other uses permitted in the district; however, the nature
of such uses make it desirable that they be permitted to locate therein. The
following procedure is established to integrate properly the uses permitted on
review with other land uses located in the district. These uses should be
reviewed and authorized or rejected under the following procedures:
   A.   Application: An application shall be filed with the planning commission
for review. The application shall show the location and intended use of the
site, and be accompanied by a list of the names and addresses of all the
property owners and existing land uses within a radius of three hundred feet
(300') from the outside perimeter of the property lines of the proposed
location, which list shall be certified as correct either by an abstractor, or
upon affidavit by a person who made an actual search of the records of the
county, that the list is true and correct.
   B.   Notice; Public Hearing: After giving notice of at least ten (10) days
by regular mail to all those whose names appear on the list accompanying the
application, the planning commission shall hold one or more public hearings
thereon, at which the planning commission may require any other material,
information or testimony it believes pertinent and shall continue the hearing
from time to time, if necessary.
   C.   Recommendation: The planning commission shall within forty five (45)
days of the date of the application, transmit to the city council its report as
to the effect of such proposed building or use upon the character of the
neighborhood, traffic conditions, public utilities, and other matters
pertaining to the general welfare, and the recommendation of the planning
commission concerning the use thereon.
   D.   Fees Of Notice: The city council by resolution shall set such fees as
are necessary to defray the costs of the mailing of the notice set out herein.
(Ord. 741, 10-16-2007)
10-2-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The city council may, from time to time, on its own motion,
or on petition from a property owner, or on recommendation of the planning
commission, amend the regulations and districts herein established. No change
in regulations, restrictions or district boundaries shall become effective
until after a public hearing held in relation thereto, at which parties in
interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time
and place of such hearing shall be published in an official paper of general
circulation in the city. (1989 Code § 12-391)
   B.   Passage By City Council:
      1.   Every such proposed amendment shall be referred by the planning
commission for report. If a protest against such amendment is presented, duly
signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the
land within such area proposed to be altered, or by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) or more of the area of the lots immediately abutting either side
of the territory included in such proposed change, or separated therefrom only
by an alley or street, such amendment shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the city council.
      2.   Whenever the owners of fifty one percent (51%) of the land in any
area shall present a petition duly signed and acknowledged to the city council
requesting an amendment of the regulations prescribed for such area, it shall
be the duty of the city council to vote upon such amendment within ninety (90)
days of the filing of same by the petitioners with the city clerk.
      3.   For each petition for amendment to the zoning ordinance, a fee as
set by the city council, plus the cost of legal publication, shall be paid to
the city clerk. (1989 Code § 12-392)
10-2-4: CLASSIFICATION OF ANNEXED AREAS:
   A.   All territory hereafter annexed to the city shall be classified as A-
1 restricted agricultural district, unless otherwise classified by the city
council. The procedure for amending zoning on annexed territory shall conform
to the procedure herein established providing for amendments to the zoning
ordinance and map. (1989 Code § 12-213; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   The planning commission shall study and make recommendations concerning
the use of land within the annexation required to promote the general welfare
and in accordance with the comprehensive plan, and upon receipt of such
recommendations by the city council shall, after public hearings as required by
law, establish the district classification of the annexation; provided,
however, that this shall not be construed as preventing the city council from
holding public hearings prior to annexation and establishing the district
classification at the time of the annexation. (1989 Code § 12-393; amd. 2002
Code)
10-2-5: VACATION OF PUBLIC EASEMENTS:
Whenever any street, alley or other public easement is vacated, the portion
vacated shall have the same district classification as the land to which the
vacated portion accrues. (1989 Code § 12-394)
10-2-6: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Adopted By Reference: The city is hereby divided into zones or
districts as shown on the official map which, together with all explanatory
matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this title.
   B.   Identification: The official zoning map shall be identified by the
signature of the mayor attested by the city clerk, and bearing the seal of the
city under the following words: "We hereby certify that this map was adopted as
part of ordinance 534A, the zoning ordinance of the city of Sayre, and passed
and adopted on August 17, 1981".
   C.   Changes: If in accordance with the provisions of this title and 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 43-101 et seq., changes are made in district
boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes
shall be made on the official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been
approved by the city council, together with an entry on the official zoning map
as follows: "On (date), by official action of the city council, the following
(change) changes were made in the official zoning map: (brief description of
nature of change)", which entry shall be signed by the mayor and attested by
the city clerk. The amending ordinance shall provide that such changes or
amendments shall not become effective until they have been duly entered upon
the official zoning map. No amendment to this title which involves matters
portrayed on the official zoning map shall become effective until after such
change and entry has been made on the map. No changes of any nature shall be
made in the official zoning map or matter shown thereon except in conformity
with the procedures set forth in this title. Any unauthorized change of
whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this
chapter and is punishable under section
10-2-8 of this chapter.
   D.   Final Authority: Regardless of the existence of the purported copies of
the official zoning map which may from time to time be made or published, the
official zoning map which shall be located in the office of the city clerk
shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water
areas, buildings, and other structures in the city.
   E.   Adoption Of New Map: In the event that the official zoning map becomes
damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or
number of changes and additions, the city council may, by resolution, adopt a
new official zoning map which shall supersede the prior official zoning map.
The new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions
in the prior official zoning map, but no such correction shall have the effect
of amending the original zoning ordinance or any subsequent amendment thereof.
The new official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor,
attested by the city clerk, and bearing the seal of the city under the
following words: "This is to certify that this official zoning map supersedes
and replaces the official zoning map adopted (date of adoption of map being
replaced) as part of ordinance 534A of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma". (1989 Code
§ 12-395)
10-2-7: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS REPEALED:
Any ordinance now in effect that conflicts with any provisions of this title is
hereby repealed. (1989 Code § 12-396)
10-2-8: PENALTY:
   A.   No building permit shall be issued for any new structure or change,
improvement or alteration of any existing structure on any tract of land which
does not comply with all of the provisions of this title.
   B.   A violation of this title shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this title shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. (1989 Code § 12-397)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-3-1: Created; Membership; Appointment
10-3-2: Quorum
10-3-3: Organization
10-3-4: Personnel Hiring Authority
10-3-5: Powers And Duties, Generally
10-3-6: Comprehensive Plan; Purpose
10-3-7: Zoning Commission
10-3-8: Subdivision Of Land
10-3-9: Uniformity Of Zoning Regulations
10-3-10: Purpose Of Zoning Plan
10-3-11: Limitation Of Zoning Authority
10-3-1: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
A planning commission is hereby created. It shall consist of five (5)
appointive members, all of whom shall be citizens of the city. The mayor shall
serve as ex officio member of the planning commission. The five (5) appointive
members shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city
council, and shall serve for terms of three (3) years, or until their
successors take office. Of the original appointive members, however, one shall
serve a term of one year, two (2) shall serve a term of two (2) years and two
(2) shall serve a term of three (3) years. Thereafter the terms of members
shall be three (3) years. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of the
term shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The members shall serve without
compensation. The city council may remove a member of the planning commission
only for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office. Members shall
be appointed solely with reference to their fitness and not party affiliation.
Ex officio members shall receive no compensation for their work on the planning
commission other than the fixed salary of the office. (1989 Code § 12-101; amd.
2002 Code)
10-3-2: QUORUM:
Three (3) members of the planning commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business; provided, however, that no action shall be taken which
is binding upon the planning commission, unless concurred in by not less than a
majority of all members comprising the planning commission. (1989 Code § 12-
102)
10-3-3: ORGANIZATION:
The planning commission shall elect a chairman, a vice chairman and a secretary
and may create and fill such other offices as it may deem necessary. The term
of the chairman, vice chairman and secretary shall be one year with eligibility
for reelection. The planning commission shall hold at least one regular meeting
each month. The planning commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of
business and keep a record of its regulations, transactions, findings and
determinations, which record shall be a public record. (1989 Code § 12-103)
10-3-4: PERSONNEL HIRING AUTHORITY:
The planning commission shall have the power, subject to the approval of the
city council, to employ planners, engineers, attorneys, clerks and other help
deemed necessary for the efficient operation of the planning commission, within
the limits of appropriation fixed by the city council. The salary and
compensation of such employees shall be fixed by the city council, and shall be
paid out of the city treasury as other officers and employees, and the
necessary expenses incurred by the planning commission shall be paid out of the
city treasury as other legal expenses of the city government. (1989 Code § 12-
104)
10-3-5: POWERS AND DUTIES, GENERALLY:
The planning commission shall have the power and duty to prepare and recommend
to the city council for adoption a comprehensive plan for the physical
development and betterment of the city. In conducting its work, the planning
commission may consider and investigate any subject matter pertaining to the
development, betterment and zoning of the municipality, and make
recommendations as it may deem advisable concerning the adoption thereof by the
city council. The planning commission may make or cause to be made surveys,
studies, maps and plans for the conduct of its activities, and before final
action is taken by the city council on the location or design of any public
buildings, statues or memorials, parks, or boulevards, streets, alleys,
playgrounds, public grounds, bridges, or any change in the location of any
street or alley, the question shall be submitted to the planning commission for
investigation and report. The planning commission may recommend extending,
amending or changing any portion of the comprehensive plan. (1989 Code § 12-
105)
10-3-6: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; PURPOSE:
In the preparation of the plan, the planning commission shall make careful and
comprehensive surveys and studies of the present conditions and future growth
of the city, and with due regard to its relation to neighboring territory. The
plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a
coordinated, adjusted development of the city and its environs which will be in
accordance with present and future needs, and best promote health, safety and
morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare. (1989 Code § 12-
106)
10-3-7: ZONING COMMISSION:
The planning commission shall serve as a zoning commission for the city. (1989
Code § 12-107)
10-3-8: SUBDIVISION OF LAND:
The planning commission may prepare and recommend to the city council for
adoption, rules and regulations governing subdivisions of land within the city
limits. All plans, plats and replats of land laid out in two (2) or more lots,
plats or parcels, or streets or alleys, or other ways intended to be dedicated
for public use, shall be first submitted to the planning commission for its
recommendations. The planning commission shall check the proposed dedication or
subdivision to ensure compliance with the comprehensive plan. The disapproval
of any plan, plat or replat by the city shall be deemed the refusal of the
dedication thereon. No plat or replat of subdivision of land, or dedication of
street or alley or other easement shall be entitled to record unless it bears
the signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk, certifying the approval
and acceptance by the city council. (1989 Code § 12-108)
10-3-9: UNIFORMITY OF ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Plan Preparation And Recommendation: The planning commission shall
prepare and recommend to the city council a zoning plan to regulate and
restrict the height, number of stories, the size of buildings and other
structures, the percentage of lots that may be occupied, the size of yards,
courts and other open spaces, the density of population, the location and use
of building structures and land for trade, industry, residences or other
purposes.
   B.   District Regulations: The planning commission may recommend the
division of the city into districts of such number, size and area that may be
deemed best suited to carry out the zoning plan. All such regulations shall be
uniform for each class or kind of building throughout the district, but the
regulations from one district may differ from those of other districts. (1989
Code § 12-109)
10-3-10: PURPOSE OF ZONING PLAN:
Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with the comprehensive plan and
designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire, panic
and other dangers, to promote health and the general welfare, to promote
adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue
concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and the public requirements, such
regulations to be made with a reasonable consideration among other things as to
the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses
and with a view to conserving the value of buildings, and encourage the most
appropriate use of land throughout the city. (1989 Code § 12-110)
10-3-11: LIMITATION OF ZONING AUTHORITY:
The authority of the planning commission to serve as a zoning commission for
the city in any actions taken by the planning commission under this title,
shall all be subject to the provisions of chapter 1 of this title, and the
actions of the planning commission as a zoning commission are specifically
subject to the appellate authority and jurisdiction of the board of adjustment
as established in section
10-4-1 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-111)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-4-1: Created; Membership; Appointment
10-4-2: Meetings And Procedures
10-4-3: Appeals
10-4-4: Powers And Duties
10-4-5: Notice And Hearings
10-4-6: Appeal To District Court
10-4-1: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created a zoning board of adjustment consisting of five (5)
members, citizens of the city, each to be appointed by the mayor, subject to
confirmation by the city council, for a term of three (3) years. Vacancies
shall be filled by the appointing authority for the unexpired term of any
member whose term becomes vacant. For the first appointment under the
provisions of this chapter, however, one member shall be appointed for a term
of one year, two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years,
and two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. All
appointments thereafter shall be for a term of three (3) years. One member of
the board shall be appointed from the membership of the planning commission and
one member shall be appointed from the membership of the city council. The
board shall elect a chairman from its membership to serve for a term of two (2)
years. (1989 Code § 12-121; amd. 2002 Code)
10-4-2: MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES:
The board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such
other times as the board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the
acting chairman, may administer oaths and require the attendance of witnesses
by subpoena. The board shall keep the minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
city clerk and shall be a public record. The concurring vote of three (3)
members of the board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of any such administrative official, or to decide in
favor of the applicant or any matter upon which it is required to pass under
any such ordinance or code, or to effect any variation in such ordinance or
code. (1989 Code § 12-122; amd. 2002 Code)
10-4-3: APPEALS:
   A.   Filing; Fee: Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the
municipality affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such
appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days after the decision by filing with
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the city clerk notice of
appeal specifying the grounds therefor, and by paying a filing fee in such
amount as established by resolution of the city council at the office of the
city clerk at the time the notice is filed. The officer from whom the appeal is
taken shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken. (1989 Code § 12-123; amd.
2002 Code)
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the board of adjustment after the notice of appeal has been filed
with him that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would in his
opinion cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted
by the board of adjustment or by a court of record upon application and notice
to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on the cause shown.
   C.   Notice; Hearing: The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time
for the hearing of the appeal or other matter referred to it, give public
notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide
same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or by attorney. (1989 Code § 12-123)
10-4-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of adjustment shall have the following powers and duties: (1989 Code
§ 12-124; amd. 2002 Code)
   A.   Administrative Review: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
an administrative official in the enforcement of the zoning regulations. In
reaching its decision, the board shall establish firm guidelines for future
administrative actions on like matters;
   B.   Special Exception:
      1.   To hear and decide upon those applications for a special exception
to the zoning regulations to allow a use, or a specifically designated element
associated with a use, which is not permitted by right in a particular district
because of potential adverse effect, but which if controlled in the particular
instance as to its relationship to the neighborhood and to the general welfare,
may be permitted by the board of adjustment, where specifically authorized by
the zoning regulations, and in accordance with the substantive and procedural
standards of the zoning regulations subject to board approval. In reaching its
decision, the board shall not grant the application if it finds:
         a.   That the use is not specifically permitted under the regulation;
         b.   That the location of proposed activities and improvements are not
clearly defined on the site plan filed by the applicant; or
         c.   That the exception will not be wholly compatible with the use and
permitted development of adjacent properties.
      2.   Special Exception Application: An application for a special
exception to use or develop property as specifically authorized in district use
regulations or in this section, may be filed by any person owning the affected
property or by any tenant upon written authorization of the owner. Such
application shall be filed with the board, and a copy thereof with the
enforcing officer.
      3.   Form Of Appeal Or Application: Such application shall show the
location and intended use of the site, the names of all the property owners and
existing land uses within three hundred feet (300'), and any other material
pertinent to the request which the board of adjustment may require.
      4.   Public Hearing: The board of adjustment shall hold one or more
public hearings thereon in accordance with the requirements for notice and
hearings and set forth in section
10-4-5 of this chapter.
      5.   Withdrawal: Any appeal or application may be withdrawn upon written
notice to the enforcing officer but no appeal shall be withdrawn after posting
of hearing notice and prior to board action thereon without formal consent of
the board;
   C.   Variances: To authorize in specific cases a variance from the terms,
standards and criteria that pertain to an allowed use category within a zoning
district as authorized by the zoning regulations when such cases are shown not
to be contrary to the public interest, where owing to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of the provisions of this title will, in any individual
case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this title shall be
observed, and substantial justice done. Such variances may be granted in whole,
in part, or upon reasonable conditions only upon a finding by the board of
adjustment that:
      1.   The application of this title to this particular piece of property
would create an unnecessary hardship, not self-imposed by the owner or
developer;
      2.   Such conditions are peculiar only to the particular piece of
property involved; or
      3.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good or impair the purposes and intent of the zoning regulations or the
comprehensive plan; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a
use of land, or buildings or structure that is prohibited by chapter 3 of this
title and this chapter; and
      4.   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum necessary to
alleviate the unnecessary hardship;
Provided, however, the board shall have no power to authorize variances as to
use except as provided by subsection D of this section;
   D.   Oil And Gas Applications: To hear and decide oil or gas applications or
appeals unless prohibited throughout the city by ordinance. The board of
adjustment shall be required to make the findings prescribed by subsection C of
this section in order to grant a variance as to use with respect to any such
application or appeal;
   E.   Extent Of Relief: In exercising the above mentioned powers, the board
of adjustment, in conformity with the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes
section 44-105, and the provisions of this chapter, may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. Every decision of the board shall be based upon
findings of fact and every finding of fact shall be supported in the record of
proceedings. The enumerated conditions required to exist on any matter upon
which the board is authorized to pass under these regulations shall be
construed as limitations on the power of the board to act. Nothing herein
contained shall be construed to empower the board to change the terms of these
regulations, or to effect changes in the zoning districts. The powers of the
board shall be so applied that the terms of these regulations will be strictly
enforced.
      1.   Three Votes Required: The concurring vote of at least three (3)
members of the board of adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement and decision or determination being appealed from, to decide in
favor of the applicant, or to decide any matter which may properly come before
it under this title or state law;
         a.   A member shall disqualify himself from voting whenever he has a
personal or monetary interest in the property under appeal, or will be directly
affected by the decision of the board; and
         b.   A member may disqualify himself from voting whenever any
applicant, or his agent, has sought to influence the member's vote on the
appeal, other than in the public hearing;
      2.   Approval Of Request:
         a.   In approving any request, the board may designate such conditions
in connection therewith in order to secure substantially the objectives of the
regulation or provision to which such variance is granted to provide adequately
for the maintenance of the integrity and character of the zone in which such
permit is granted;
         b.   When necessary, the board may require guarantees, in such form as
it deems proper, to ensure that conditions designated in connection therewith
are being or will be complied with. Where any condition under which a request
has been granted appears to have been violated, the board may hold a public
hearing thereon to determine whether or not the permit theretofore granted
shall be terminated; and
         c.   Upon approval of an application for special exception or of a
variance appeal, the applicant shall apply for occupancy or construction
permits within sixty (60) days after the board's decision unless a greater time
is requested in the application and is authorized by the board. Any approval
may be granted one emergency extension of sixty (60) days on written request
filed with the board before expiration of the original approval. Failure of the
applicant to apply for occupancy or construction permits within the authorized
time period shall void the right to secure such permits except upon the filing
of a new application or appeal;
      3.   Denial Of Request: No appeal or application that has been denied
shall be further considered by the board under a subsequent request obtained by
filing new plans and obtaining of a new decision from the enforcing officer
unless:
         a.   The new plans materially change the nature of the request; or
         b.   The permitted development of other nearby property in the same
zone has been substantially altered or changed by a ruling of the board so as
to support an allegation of changed conditions; (1989 Code § 12-124)
   F.   Hearing, Findings And Record: Exceptions or variances may be allowed by
the board of adjustment only after notice and hearing as provided in section
10-4-5 of this chapter. The record of the meeting at which the variance or
special exception was granted shall show that each element of a variance or
special exception was established at the public hearing on the question,
otherwise the variance or special exception shall be voidable on appeal to the
district court; and
   G.   Exceptions To Uses May Be Authorized: The city council may authorize
the board of adjustment to make special exceptions to specific uses allowed
within each zoning category according to the zoning regulations in appropriate
cases and subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards in harmony with its
general purpose and intent and only in accordance with general or specific
provisions contained in the zoning regulations. (1989 Code § 12-124; amd. 2002
Code)
10-4-5: NOTICE AND HEARINGS:
   A.   Time Of Hearing: The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time
for the hearing of an appeal or other matters referred to it.
   B.   Notice Requirements: Notice of public hearing before the board of
adjustment shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city where the property is located and by mailing written notice by the
city clerk to all owners of property within a three hundred foot (300') radius
of the exterior boundary of the subject property. A copy of the published
notice may be mailed in lieu of written notice; however, the notice by
publication and written notice shall be published and mailed at least ten (10)
days prior to the hearing.
   C.   Content Of Notice: The notice, whether by publication or mail, of a
public hearing before the board of adjustment shall contain:
      1.   A legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the city;
      2.   Present zoning classification of the property and the nature of the
appeal, variance or exception requested; and
      3.   Date, time and place of the hearing.
   D.   Minor Variances Or Exceptions: On hearings involving minor variances or
exceptions, notice shall be given by the city clerk by mailing written notice
to all owners of property adjacent to the subject property. The notice shall be
mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing and shall contain the facts
listed in subsection C of this section. The board of adjustment shall set forth
in a statement of policy what constitutes minor variances or exceptions,
subject to approval or amendment by the city council. (1989 Code § 12-125; amd.
2002 Code)
10-4-6: APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Authority; Time Limit: An appeal from any action, decision, ruling,
judgment or order of the board of adjustment may be taken by any person or
persons, jointly or severally aggrieved, or any taxpayer or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the city to the district court by filing notice
of appeal with the city clerk and with the board of adjustment within ten (10)
days from the filing of the decision of the board, which notice shall specify
the grounds of such appeal. Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein
provided, the board shall transmit to the court clerk the original or certified
copy of all the papers constituting the record in the case, together with the
order, decision or ruling of the board.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the district court from the board of
adjustment stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the chairman of the board of adjustment from which the appeal is taken
certifies to the court clerk, after the notice of appeal has been filed, that
by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his opinion cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
district court or superior court upon application or notice to the
administrative officer in charge of the enforcement of the terms and provisions
of this title, and upon notice to the chairman of the board of adjustment from
which the appeal is taken, and upon due cause being shown, the court may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the decision brought up for
review. (1989 Code § 12-126)
CHAPTER 5
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Districts Established
10-5-2: Boundaries Of Districts
10-5-3: Compliance Required
10-5-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   For the purpose of this title, the following districts are hereby
established for the city:
      Agricultural districts:
        A-1 Restricted agricultural district
        A-2 General agricultural district
      Residential districts (R):
        R-1 Single-family district
        R-2 General residential district
      Commercial districts (C):
        C-1 Neighborhood shopping district
        C-2 General commercial district
        C-3 Highway commercial district
      Industrial districts (I):
        I-1 Restricted manufacturing and warehousing district
        I-2 General industrial district
      Flood plain district (F)
      Planned unit development district
   B.   The city is hereby divided into districts as shown on the zoning map,
filed with the city clerk. The zoning districts map of the city and all of the
notations, references and other matters shown thereon, shall be made as much a
part of this title as if notations, references or other matters set forth by
the map were all fully described herein; which district map is on file in the
office of the city clerk at city hall. (1989 Code § 12-210)
10-5-2: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
   A.   Specified; Uncertainty: The district boundary lines shown on the zoning
district map are usually along streets, alleys, property lines or extensions
thereof; where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on
the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
      2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines;
      3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following city limits;
      4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be the center line of the right of way, or if no center line is established,
the boundary shall be interpreted to be midway between the right-of-way lines
of such railroad;
      5.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in subsections A1 through A4 of this section shall be so construed.
Distances not specifically indicated on the original zoning map shall be
determined by the scale of the map; and
      6.   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by
official action of the city council or whenever such area is franchised for
building purposes, the zoning district adjoining each side of such street,
alley or other public way shall be automatically extended to the center line of
such vacated street, alley or way, and all area so involved shall then and
henceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended districts.
   B.   Variances: Where physical features on the ground are at variance with
information shown on the official zoning district map, or when there arises a
question as to how or whether a parcel of property is zoned and such questions
cannot be resolved by the application of subsection A of this section, the
property shall be considered as classified A-1 restricted agricultural
district, temporarily, in the same manner as provided for newly annexed
territory and the issuance of a building permit and the determination of
permanent zoning shall be in accordance with the provisions providing for
amendments to the zoning ordinance and map. (1989 Code § 12-212)
10-5-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All land, building, structures or appurtenances thereon located within the
city, which are hereafter occupied, used, erected, altered, removed, demolished
or converted shall be used, removed, placed and erected in conformance with the
zoning regulations prescribed for the zoning district in which such land or
building is located as hereinafter provided. (1989 Code § 12-214)
CHAPTER 6
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A.  A-1 RESTRICTED AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Established
10-6A-2: Uses Permitted
10-6A-3: Uses Permitted On Review
10-6A-4: Accessory Uses Permitted
10-6A-5: Accessory Use Conditions
10-6A-6: Area Regulations
10-6A-7: Height Regulations
10-6A-1: ESTABLISHED:
The A-1 restricted agricultural district is designed to protect and encourage
agricultural uses which are located at some distance from the city's urbanized
areas and particularly to protect newly annexed territory. As urban growth
occurs, requests for land use changes will allow the city to coordinate growth
in a manner which will be most beneficial to the public interest. (1989 Code §
12-320)
10-6A-2: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are permitted:
   A.   Agricultural or undeveloped land (not including commercial feed lots).
   B.   Single-family dwellings.
   C.   Public services and utilities.
   D.   Plant nursery.
   E.   Kennels.
   F.   Livestock sale barn. (1989 Code § 12-321; amd. Ord. 692, 11-16-1999)
10-6A-3: USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW:
The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with provisions contained in section
10-2-2 of this title:
Mobile home; provided, that each separate time a mobile home use is
contemplated for a particular site, the applicant must again comply with the
provisions of section
10-2-2 of this title 1 . (Ord. 692, 11-16-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-12-10 of this title.
10-6A-4: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses permitted are:
   A.   Identification signs.
   B.   Real estate signs. (1989 Code § 12-322)
10-6A-5: ACCESSORY USE CONDITIONS:
   A.   An accessory building erected as an integral part of the principal
building shall be made structurally a part thereof, shall have a common wall
therewith, and shall comply with the requirements applicable to the principal
building.
   B.   Accessory buildings shall meet the minimum yard or building setback
requirements of this district.
   C.   A detached accessory building shall be located at least six feet (6')
from any dwelling. (1989 Code § 12-323)
10-6A-6: AREA REGULATIONS:
The following area regulations apply:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum depth of the front yard shall be one hundred
feet (100').
   B.   Side Yard: There shall be a minimum side yard of twenty five feet
(25').
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a minimum of a fifty foot (50') rear yard.
   D.   Lot Width: There shall be a minimum lot width of two hundred fifty feet
(250') for all uses.
   E.   Lot Area: There shall be a minimum of five (5) acres for all uses.
   F.   Coverage: The maximum building coverage shall be twenty percent (20%)
of the land area. (1989 Code § 12-324)
10-6A-7: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The maximum height shall be thirty five feet (35'), except the height
limitations shall not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water
tanks, ventilators, chimneys, or other appurtenances not intended for human
occupancy. (1989 Code § 12-325)
ARTICLE B.  A-2 GENERAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Established
10-6B-2: Uses Permitted
10-6B-3: Uses Permitted On Review
10-6B-4: Accessory Uses Permitted
10-6B-5: Accessory Use Conditions
10-6B-6: Area Regulations
10-6B-7: Height Regulations
10-6B-1: ESTABLISHED:
The A-2 general agricultural district is designed to protect and encourage
agricultural uses which are located within close proximity to the city's
urbanized area. As urban growth occurs, requests for land use changes will
allow the city to coordinate growth in a manner which will be most beneficial
to the public interest. (1989 Code § 12-330)
10-6B-2: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are permitted:
   A.   Agricultural or undeveloped land (not including commercial feed lots).
   B.   Single-family dwellings.
   C.   Multi-family dwellings.
   D.   Public services and utilities.
   E.   Plant nursery.
   F.   Country club.
   G.   Golf course or driving range.
   H.   Lodge site, commercial recreation (outdoor).
   I.   Airport.
   J.   Cemetery.
   K.   Kennels.
   L.   Hospitals, human and veterinarian. (1989 Code § 12-331; amd. Ord. 692,
11-16-1999)
10-6B-3: USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW:
The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with provisions contained in section
10-2-2 of this title:
Mobile home; provided, that each separate time a mobile home use is
contemplated for a particular site, the applicant must again comply with the
provisions of section
10-2-2 of this title 1 . (Ord. 692, 11-16-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-12-10 of this title.
10-6B-4: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
The following accessory uses are permitted:
   A.   Bulletin board.
   B.   Identification signs.
   C.   Real estate signs. (1989 Code § 12-332)
10-6B-5: ACCESSORY USE CONDITIONS:
The following accessory use conditions apply:
   A.   An accessory building erected as an integral part of the principal
building shall be made structurally a part thereof, shall have a common wall
therewith, and shall comply with the requirements applicable to the principal
building.
   B.   Accessory buildings shall meet the minimum yard or building setback
requirements of this district.
   C.   A detached accessory building shall be located at least six feet (6')
from any dwelling. (1989 Code § 12-333)
10-6B-6: AREA REGULATIONS:
The following area regulations apply:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum depth of the front yard shall be fifty feet
(50').
   B.   Side Yard: There shall be a minimum side yard of twenty five feet
(25').
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a minimum of a fifty foot (50') rear yard.
   D.   Lot Width: There shall be a minimum lot width of one hundred fifty feet
(150') for all uses except the single-family dwelling, where in such cases it
shall be one hundred feet (100').
   E.   Lot Area: There shall be a minimum of two (2) acres for all uses except
the single-family dwelling in which it will have one acre.
   F.   Coverage: The maximum building coverage shall be thirty percent (30%)
of the land area. (1989 Code § 12-334)
10-6B-7: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The maximum height shall be thirty five feet (35'), except the height
limitations shall not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water
tanks, ventilators, chimneys, or other appurtenances not intended for human
occupancy. (1989 Code § 12-335)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A.  R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Established
10-7A-2: Uses Permitted
10-7A-3: Uses Permitted On Review
10-7A-4: Area Regulations
10-7A-5: Height Regulations
10-7A-1: ESTABLISHED:
The R-1 single-family dwelling district is the most restrictive residential
district. The principal use of land is for single- family dwellings and related
recreational, religious and educational facilities normally required to provide
an orderly and attractive residential area. These residential areas are
intended to be defined and protected from the encroachment of uses which are
not appropriate to residential environment. Stability of property values,
attractiveness, order and efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate
light, air and open space for dwellings and related facilities and through
consideration of the proper functional relationship of the different uses.
(1989 Code § 12-220)
10-7A-2: USES PERMITTED:
Property and buildings in an R-1 single-family dwelling district shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   A.   Detached one-family dwelling.
   B.   Churches, but not including missions or revival tents or arbors.
   C.   Public school or school offering general educational courses the same
as ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms regularly used for
housing and sleeping.
   D.   Public park or playground.
   E.   Library.
   F.   Transportation and utility easements, alleys and rights of way.
   G.   Accessory buildings which are not a part of a main building, including
one private garage.
   H.   Temporary bulletin board or sign, not exceeding twelve (12) square feet
in area appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises,
which board or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired
or sold.
   I.   Church bulletin board or sign, not exceeding fifteen (15) square feet
in area, attached to the main building or located behind the front building
line on the same lot with the church building.
   J.   Temporary building of the construction industry which is incidental to
the erection of buildings permitted in this district, and which shall be
removed when construction work is completed.
   K.   Parking lot required to serve the uses permitted in this district.
   L.   Garden, general purpose, but not the raising of livestock. (1989 Code §
12-221)
10-7A-3: USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW:
The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with provisions contained in section
10-2-2 of this title:
   A.   Municipal use, public building and public utility.
   B.   Plant nursery in which no building or structure is maintained in
connection therewith.
   C.   Golf course or country club.
   D.   Home occupation.
   E.   Two-family dwelling.
   F.   Manufactured home; provided, that each separate time a manufactured
home use is contemplated for a particular site, the applicant must again comply
with the provisions of section
10-12-10 of this title. (Ord. 741, 10-16-2007)
10-7A-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
All buildings shall be set back from street right of way and lot lines to
comply with the following yard requirements:
   A.   Front Yard:
      1.   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty five feet (25');
      2.   If twenty five percent (25%) or more of the lots on one side of the
street between two (2) intersecting streets are improved with buildings, all of
which have observed an average setback line of greater than twenty five feet
(25'), and no building varies more than six feet (6') from this average setback
line, then no building shall be erected closer to the street line than the
minimum setback so established by the existing buildings; but this regulation
shall not require a front yard of greater depth than fifty feet (50'); and
      3.   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be complied with on both streets.
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of the main building of not less than five feet (5') for dwellings
of one story, and of not less than ten feet (10') for dwellings of more than
one story, except as hereinafter provided in section
10-12-2 of this title;
      2.   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet (5'); provided, however, that unattached one-
story buildings of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than
three feet (3') from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory
buildings are located more than ninety feet (90') behind the front lot line;
      3.   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there
shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than
fifteen feet (15') in case such lot is back to back with another corner lot,
and twenty feet (20') in every other case. The interior side yard of a corner
lot shall be the same as for dwellings and accessory buildings on an interior
lot; and
      4.   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings, shall set back from all exterior and interior
side lot lines a distance of not less than twenty five feet (25').
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard for a main building of not less
than twenty feet (20') or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot,
whichever amount is smaller. Unattached buildings of accessory use may be
located in the rear yard of a main building.
   D.   Lot Width: For dwellings, there shall be a minimum lot width of fifty
feet (50') at the front building line and such lot shall abut on a street for a
distance of not less than thirty five feet (35').
   E.   Intensity Of Use:
      1.   For each dwelling, and buildings accessory thereto, there shall be a
lot area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet; and
      2.   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off street parking areas
required in section
10-12-9 of this title; provided, however, that the lot area for a church shall
not be less than fourteen thousand (14,000) square feet.
   F.   Coverage: Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than twenty
five percent (25%) of the lot area on interior lots and thirty percent (30%) of
the lot area on corner lots. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than
twenty percent (20%) of the rear yard. (1989 Code § 12-223)
10-7A-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet
(35') in height, except as provided in section
10-12-3 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-224)
ARTICLE A.  R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Established
10-7A-2: Uses Permitted
10-7A-3: Uses Permitted On Review
10-7A-4: Area Regulations
10-7A-5: Height Regulations
10-7A-1: ESTABLISHED:
The R-1 single-family dwelling district is the most restrictive residential
district. The principal use of land is for single- family dwellings and related
recreational, religious and educational facilities normally required to provide
an orderly and attractive residential area. These residential areas are
intended to be defined and protected from the encroachment of uses which are
not appropriate to residential environment. Stability of property values,
attractiveness, order and efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate
light, air and open space for dwellings and related facilities and through
consideration of the proper functional relationship of the different uses.
(1989 Code § 12-220)
10-7A-2: USES PERMITTED:
Property and buildings in an R-1 single-family dwelling district shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   A.   Detached one-family dwelling.
   B.   Churches, but not including missions or revival tents or arbors.
   C.   Public school or school offering general educational courses the same
as ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms regularly used for
housing and sleeping.
   D.   Public park or playground.
   E.   Library.
   F.   Transportation and utility easements, alleys and rights of way.
   G.   Accessory buildings which are not a part of a main building, including
one private garage.
   H.   Temporary bulletin board or sign, not exceeding twelve (12) square feet
in area appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises,
which board or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired
or sold.
   I.   Church bulletin board or sign, not exceeding fifteen (15) square feet
in area, attached to the main building or located behind the front building
line on the same lot with the church building.
   J.   Temporary building of the construction industry which is incidental to
the erection of buildings permitted in this district, and which shall be
removed when construction work is completed.
   K.   Parking lot required to serve the uses permitted in this district.
   L.   Garden, general purpose, but not the raising of livestock. (1989 Code §
12-221)
10-7A-3: USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW:
The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with provisions contained in section
10-2-2 of this title:
   A.   Municipal use, public building and public utility.
   B.   Plant nursery in which no building or structure is maintained in
connection therewith.
   C.   Golf course or country club.
   D.   Home occupation.
   E.   Two-family dwelling.
   F.   Manufactured home; provided, that each separate time a manufactured
home use is contemplated for a particular site, the applicant must again comply
with the provisions of section
10-12-10 of this title. (Ord. 741, 10-16-2007)
10-7A-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
All buildings shall be set back from street right of way and lot lines to
comply with the following yard requirements:
   A.   Front Yard:
      1.   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty five feet (25');
      2.   If twenty five percent (25%) or more of the lots on one side of the
street between two (2) intersecting streets are improved with buildings, all of
which have observed an average setback line of greater than twenty five feet
(25'), and no building varies more than six feet (6') from this average setback
line, then no building shall be erected closer to the street line than the
minimum setback so established by the existing buildings; but this regulation
shall not require a front yard of greater depth than fifty feet (50'); and
      3.   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements shall
be complied with on both streets.
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of the main building of not less than five feet (5') for dwellings
of one story, and of not less than ten feet (10') for dwellings of more than
one story, except as hereinafter provided in section
10-12-2 of this title;
      2.   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet (5'); provided, however, that unattached one-
story buildings of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than
three feet (3') from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory
buildings are located more than ninety feet (90') behind the front lot line;
      3.   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there
shall be a side yard setback from the intersecting street of not less than
fifteen feet (15') in case such lot is back to back with another corner lot,
and twenty feet (20') in every other case. The interior side yard of a corner
lot shall be the same as for dwellings and accessory buildings on an interior
lot; and
      4.   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings, shall set back from all exterior and interior
side lot lines a distance of not less than twenty five feet (25').
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard for a main building of not less
than twenty feet (20') or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot,
whichever amount is smaller. Unattached buildings of accessory use may be
located in the rear yard of a main building.
   D.   Lot Width: For dwellings, there shall be a minimum lot width of fifty
feet (50') at the front building line and such lot shall abut on a street for a
distance of not less than thirty five feet (35').
   E.   Intensity Of Use:
      1.   For each dwelling, and buildings accessory thereto, there shall be a
lot area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet; and
      2.   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off street parking areas
required in section
10-12-9 of this title; provided, however, that the lot area for a church shall
not be less than fourteen thousand (14,000) square feet.
   F.   Coverage: Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than twenty
five percent (25%) of the lot area on interior lots and thirty percent (30%) of
the lot area on corner lots. Accessory buildings shall not cover more than
twenty percent (20%) of the rear yard. (1989 Code § 12-223)
10-7A-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet
(35') in height, except as provided in section
10-12-3 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-224)
ARTICLE B.  R-2 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Established
10-7B-2: Uses Permitted
10-7B-3: Uses Permitted On Review
10-7B-4: Area Regulations
10-7B-5: Height Regulations
10-7B-1: ESTABLISHED:
The R-2 general residential district is a residential district to provide for
medium and high population density. The principal use of land may range from
single-family to multiple-family and garden apartment uses. Certain uses which
are more compatible functionally with intensive residential uses than with
commercial uses are permitted. The recreational, religious and educational
facilities normally required to provide an orderly and attractive residential
area are permitted. Stability of property values, attractiveness, order and
efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate light, air and open space
for dwellings and related facilities and through consideration of the proper
functional relationship of each use permitted in the district. (1989 Code § 12-
227)
10-7B-2: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are permitted in the R-2 district:
   A.   Any use permitted in an R-1 residential district.
   B.   Two-family dwelling.
   C.   Multiple-family dwelling.
   D.   Rooming or boarding house.
   E.   Garage apartment, when located on a separate lot or on the same lot
with another dwelling use.
   F.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses
when located on the same lot. (1989 Code § 12-228)
10-7B-3: USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW:
The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with provisions contained in section
10-2-2 of this title:
   A.   Any use permitted on review in an R-1 single-family dwelling district.
   B.   Childcare center.
   C.   Home beauty shop located in a dwelling, provided such shop is conducted
within the main dwelling, and is operated only by the inhabitants thereof and
does not exceed two (2) operators. The use shall be conducted in such a way
that it is clearly incidental to the dwelling use and shall not change the
character thereof. No sign shall be permitted, except one nonilluminated
nameplate, not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, attached to the main
building.
   D.   Institutions of a religious, educational or philanthropic nature.
   E.   Private clubs and lodges, excepting those the chief activity of which
is a service customarily carried on as a business.
   F.   Medical facility.
   G.   Travel trailer park or mobile home park (regulated by chapter 15 of
this title).
   H.   Off-street parking lot associated with a C commercial use as required
under the provisions of section
10-12-9 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-229; amd. Ord. 659, 6-17-1997)
10-7B-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
All buildings shall be set back from street right-of-way lines or lot lines to
comply with the following yard requirements:
   A.   Front Yard:
      1.   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty five feet (25');
      2.   If twenty five percent (25%) or more of the lots on one side of the
street between two (2) intersecting streets are improved with buildings, all of
which have observed an average setback line of greater than twenty five feet
(25'), and no building varies more than six feet (6') from this average setback
line, then no building shall be erected closer to the street line than the
minimum setback so established by the existing buildings; but this regulation
shall not require a front yard of greater depth than fifty feet (50'); and
      3.   When a yard has a double frontage, then front yard requirements
shall be complied with on both sides.
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   For dwellings located on interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of the main dwelling of not less than five feet (5') for dwellings
of one story, and of not less than ten feet (10') for dwellings of more than
one story, except as hereinafter provided in section
10-12-2 of this title;
      2.   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than five feet (5'); provided, however, that unattached one
story buildings of accessory use shall not be required to set back more than
three feet (3') from an interior side lot line when all parts of the accessory
buildings are located more than ninety feet (90') behind the front property
line;
      3.   For dwellings and accessory buildings located on corner lots, there
shall be a side yard set back from the intersecting street of not less than
fifteen feet (15') in case such lot is back to back with another corner lot,
and twenty feet (20') in every other case. The interior side yard shall be the
same as for dwellings and accessory buildings on an interior lot; (1989 Code §
12-230)
      4.   Mobile home parks shall be planned in such a manner that no mobile
home or related building, shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to any
side lot line; and
      5.   Churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings and mobile homes shall set back from all
exterior and interior side lot lines a distance of not less than twenty five
feet (25'). (1989 Code § 12-230; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Rear Yard:
      1.   For main buildings, other than garage apartments, there shall be a
rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20') or twenty percent (20%) of the
depth of the lot, whichever is smaller. Unattached buildings of accessory use
may be located in the rear yard of a main building; and
      2.   Garage apartments may be located in the rear yard of another
dwelling, but shall not be located closer than ten feet (10') to the rear lot
line.
   D.   Lot Width: There shall be a minimum lot width of fifty feet (50') at
the front building line for single-family dwellings and ten feet (10')
additional width at the front building line for each family, more than one,
occupying a dwelling. However, a lot width at the front building line shall not
be required to exceed one hundred fifty feet (150'). A lot shall abut on a
street not less than thirty five feet (35').
   E.   Intensity Of Use:
      1.   There shall be a lot area of not less than six thousand (6,000)
square feet for a single-family dwelling, not less than seven thousand two
hundred (7,200) square feet for a two-family dwelling, and an additional area
of not less than two thousand (2,000) square feet for each family, more than
two (2), occupying a dwelling;
      2.   There shall be a lot area of not less than seven thousand two
hundred (7,200) square feet where a garage apartment is located on the same lot
with a single-family dwelling. When a garage apartment is located in the rear
yard of a two-family or multiple-family dwelling, the lot area shall not be
less than two thousand (2,000) square feet more than is required for the two-
family or multiple-family dwelling; and
      3.   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings
and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide
the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking area
required in section
10-12-9 of this title; provided, however, that the lot area for a church shall
not be less than fourteen thousand (14,000) square feet.
   F.   Coverage: Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than thirty
five percent (35%) of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover more
than thirty percent (30%) of the rear yard. (1989 Code § 12-230)
10-7B-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet
(35') in height, except as provided in section
10-12-3 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-231)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A.  C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Purpose
10-8A-2: Uses Permitted
10-8A-3: Area Regulations
10-8A-4: Height Regulations
10-8A-5: Screening Required
10-8A-1: PURPOSE:
The C-1 neighborhood shopping district is for the conduct of retail trade and
personal service enterprises to meet the regular needs and for the convenience
of the people of adjacent residential areas. Because these shops and stores may
be an integral part of the neighborhood closely associated with residential,
religious and educational uses, more restrictive requirements for light, open
air space and off-street parking are made than are provided in other commercial
districts. (1989 Code § 12-240)
10-8A-2: USES PERMITTED:
Property and buildings in a C-1 neighborhood shopping district shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   A.   Any use permitted in an R-2 residential district.
   B.   Any use permitted on review in an R-2 residential district.
   C.   Retail stores and shops which supply the regular and customary needs of
the residents of the neighborhood and which are primarily for their
convenience, as follows:
      1.   Antique shop.
      2.   Appliance store.
      3.   Arts school, gallery or museum.
      4.   Artists' materials, supply studio.
      5.   Automobile parking lot.
      6.   Automobile service station.
      7.   Baby shop.
      8.   Bakery goods store.
      9.   Barber shop.
      10.   Beauty shop.
      11.   Book or stationery store.
      12.   Camera shop.
      13.   Candy store.
      14.   Catering establishment.
      15.   Cleaning, pressing and laundry collection agency.
      16.   Clothing or apparel shop.
      17.   Curio or gift shop.
      18.   Drug store or fountain.
      19.   Dry goods store.
      20.   Dairy products or ice cream store.
      21.   Delicatessen.
      22.   Dress shop.
      23.   Florist shop.
      24.   Furniture store.
      25.   Grocery store or supermarket.
      26.   Hardware store.
      27.   Interior decorating shop.
      28.   Jewelry or notion store.
      29.   Key shop.
      30.   Leather goods shop.
      31.   Meat market.
      32.   Medical facility.
      33.   Messenger or telegraph service.
      34.   Musical instrument sales.
      35.   Music, radio or television shop.
      36.   Newspaper or magazine sales.
      37.   Novelty shop.
      38.   Office business.
      39.   Optometrists sales and service.
      40.   Photographer studio.
      41.   Pharmacy.
      42.   Radio and television sales and service.
      43.   Restaurant, not to include drive-in.
      44.   Self-service laundry or dry cleaning.
      45.   Sewing machine sales, instruction.
      46.   Sporting goods store.
      47.   Shoe repair shop.
      48.   Stock and bond broker.
      49.   Tailor shop.
      50.   Toy store.
      51.   Variety store.
   D.   Nameplate and sign relating only to the use of the store and premises
or to products sold on the premises.
   E.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
   F.   A building used for any of the above enumerated uses may not have more
than forty percent (40%) of its floor area devoted to purposes incidental to
the primary use. No material or goods offered for sale or stored in connection
with the uses enumerated in this section shall be displayed or stored outside
of a building. (1989 Code § 12-241)
10-8A-3: AREA REGULATIONS:
The area requirements for dwellings shall be the same as the requirement of the
R-2 general residential district. The following requirements shall apply to all
other uses permitted in this district:
   A.   Front Yard: All buildings shall set back from the street right-of-way
line to provide a front yard having not less than twenty five feet (25') in
depth.
   B.   Side Yard: On the side of a lot adjoining a dwelling district, there
shall be a side yard of not less than twenty five feet (25'). There shall be a
side yard setback from an intersecting street of not less than twenty five feet
(25').
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be provided an alley, service court, rear yard
or combination thereof, of not less than thirty feet (30).
   D.   Minimum Area: The parcel of land on which a neighborhood shopping
district is located shall not be less than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet
or more than two (2) acres in area. (1989 Code § 12-242)
10-8A-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet
(35') in height, except as hereinafter provided in section
10-12-3 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-243)
10-8A-5: SCREENING REQUIRED:
Ornamental screening shall be provided by all uses permitted by providing a
solid wall of not less than seven feet (7') in height when abutting an R
district. For the purposes of this article, abutting shall include an R
district separated by an alley. (1989 Code § 12-244)
ARTICLE B.  C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8B-1: Purpose
10-8B-2: Uses Permitted
10-8B-3: Area Regulations
10-8B-4: Height Regulations
10-8B-5: Screening Required
10-8B-1: PURPOSE:
The C-2 general commercial district is intended for the conduct of personal and
business services and the general retail business of the community. Persons
living in the community and in the surrounding trade territory require direct
and frequent access. Traffic generated by the uses will be primarily passenger
vehicles and those trucks and commercial vehicles required for stocking and
delivery of retail goods. (1989 Code § 12-247)
10-8B-2: USES PERMITTED:
Property and buildings in a C-2 general commercial district shall be used only
for the following purposes:
   A.   Any use permitted in C-1 neighborhood shopping district.
   B.   Amusement enterprises.
   C.   Automobile sales and services, new and used, public garages, provided
no gasoline is stored aboveground, and services conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building, but not including automobile or machinery
wrecking establishments or junkyards.
   D.   Any of the following businesses:
Ambulance service, office or garage.
Auto court, tourist court or motel.
Bait sales.
Bakery.
Bathhouse.
Bus terminal.
Cleaning plant.
Commercial school or hall.
Commercial storage building.
Dance hall.
Department store.
Feed and seed store.
Frozen food locker.
Funeral parlor or mortuary.
Furniture repair and upholstery.
Heating, ventilating or plumbing supplies, sales and services.
Hospital for small animals.
Ice storage locker plant or storage house for food.
Laundry and cleaning establishment.
Liquor store.
Museums.
Nightclub.
Nursery or garden supply store.
Pawnshop.
Pet shop.
Printing plant.
Recreation center.
Research laboratories.
Sign painting shop.
Tavern.
Theater.
   E.   Buildings, structures and uses accessory and customarily incidental to
any of the above uses, provided that there shall be no manufacture, processing,
or compounding of products other than such as are customarily incidental and
essential to retail establishments. No material or goods offered for sale or
stored in connection with the uses enumerated above shall be displayed or
stored outside of a building between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   F.   Any other store or shop for retail trade or for rendering personal,
professional or business service which does not produce more noise, odor, dust,
vibration, blast or traffic than those enumerated above. (1989 Code § 12-248;
amd. Ord. 709, 10-16-2001; Ord. 714, 4-16-2002)
10-8B-3: AREA REGULATIONS:
The area regulations for dwellings shall be the same as the requirements of the
R-2 general residential district. The following requirements shall apply to all
other uses permitted in this district:
   A.   Front And Side Yards: There are no specific front or side yard
requirements for uses other than dwellings.
   B.   Rear Yard: There shall be provided an alley, service court, rear yard,
or combination thereof, of not less than thirty feet (30') in width.
   C.   Off Street Parking Area: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in section
10-12-9 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-249)
10-8B-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet
(35') in height, except as hereinafter provided in section
10-12-3 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-250)
10-8B-5: SCREENING REQUIRED:
Ornamental screening shall be provided by all uses permitted by providing a
solid wall of not less than seven feet (7') in height when abutting an R
district. For the purposes of this article abutting shall include an R district
separated by an alley. (Ord. 710, 10-16-2001)
ARTICLE C.  C-3 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8C-1: Purpose
10-8C-2: Uses Permitted
10-8C-3: Uses Permitted On Review
10-8C-4: Area Regulations
10-8C-5: Height Regulations
10-8C-6: Screening Required
10-8C-1: PURPOSE:
The C-3 highway commercial district is intended to provide commercial lodging,
recreation and personal services for both the citizens and nonresidents
traveling through the town on state and federal highways that traverse the
area. Businesses and facilities of this district will provide for the traveling
public and require more ribbon development and direct passenger vehicle access
than would be desirable in the general commercial district. (1989 Code § 12-
255)
10-8C-2: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Property and buildings in the C-3 highway commercial district shall be
used only for the following purposes:
      1.   Any use permitted in the C-2 general commercial district.
      2.   On premises signs.
      3.   Permanent commercial amusement enterprises.
      4.   Any of the following uses:
Ambulance service, office and garage.
Artists supplies and hobby shop.
Automobile sales, service, repair and showroom (provided all service and other
activity relating to the operation thereof shall be conducted entirely in an
enclosed building).
Bait sales.
Bakery shop.
Barber and beauty shops.
Bathhouse.
Boat sales.
Bookstore.
Clothing or wearing apparel shops.
Dairy products store.
Delicatessen.
Drive-in restaurant.
Drive-in theater.
Drugstore.
Farm implement and machinery, new and used, sales.
Florist shop.
Gasoline and oil retail distributing plants.
Gift shop.
Golf course, miniature or practice range.
Grocery store.
Hardware store.
Hospital for small animals.
House trailer and mobile home sales.
Indian goods retail.
Jewelry shop.
Kennel.
Laundry and dry cleaning pick up stations.
Medical facility.
Metal and wood fencing, ornamental grillwork and decorative wrought iron work
and play equipment sales.
Mobile home and travel trailer sales.
Monument sales.
Museums, indoor and outdoor.
Novelty shop retail.
Office, general.
Parking lot.
Pharmacy.
Prefabricated house sales.
Public uses.
Recreation center, public or private.
Restaurants.
Rollerskating rinks.
Self-service laundries.
Shoe repair shop.
Sightseeing tour depot.
Swimming pool, commercial.
Tailor shop.
Theater.
Tourist homes and courts.
Toy shop.
Trailer camp.
Trailers for hauling, rental and sales.
Variety store.
   B.   The uses enumerated above shall comply with the following provisions:
      1.   All yards, unoccupied with buildings or merchandise, or used as
traffic ways, shall be landscaped with grass and shrubs and maintained in good
condition year round.
      2.   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall not exceed twenty five
feet (25') in width, exclusive of curb returns.
      3.   Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall have an arrangement of
reflectors and an intensity of lighting which will not interfere with adjacent
land uses or the use of adjacent street, and shall not be of a flashing or
intermittent type.
      4.   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
uses. (1989 Code § 12-256; amd. Ord. 703, 1-16-2001; Ord. 726, 12-16-2003)
10-8C-3: USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW:
The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with the provisions contained in section
10-2-2 of this title:
Bars.
Billboards.
Liquor stores.
Private clubs. (1989 Code § 12-257; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 726, 12-16-2003)
10-8C-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
The following area regulations apply:
   A.   Tourist Commercial Uses; Side Yard: Tourist commercial uses must have a
side yard of ten feet (10') when abutting a residential district.
   B.   Rear Yard: Where a commercial building is to be serviced from the rear,
there shall be provided an alleyway, service court, rear yard or combination
thereof of not less than thirty feet (30') in width. In all other cases no rear
yard is required.
   C.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in section
10-12-9 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-258)
10-8C-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No buildings shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet
(35') in height, except as hereinafter provided in section
10-12-3 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-259)
10-8C-6: SCREENING REQUIRED:
Uses permitted in this article shall be screened by ornamental fencing or
evergreen planting of not less than seven feet (7') in height when abutting an
R district. For the purposes of this article, abutting shall include those
dwellings across an alley. (1989 Code § 12-260; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A.  I-1 RESTRICTED MANUFACTURING AND WAREHOUSING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9A-1: Purpose
10-9A-2: Uses Permitted
10-9A-3: Area Regulations
10-9A-4: Height Regulations
10-9A-5: Screening Required
10-9A-1: PURPOSE:
The I-1 restricted manufacturing and warehousing district is intended for
manufacturing and assembly plants and warehousing that are conducted so the
noise, odor, dust and glare of each operation is completely confined within an
enclosed building. These industries may require direct access to rail, air or
street transportation facilities; however, the size and volume of the raw
materials and finished products involved should not produce the volume of
freight generated by the uses of the light and heavy industrial districts.
Buildings in this district should be architecturally attractive and surrounded
by landscaped yards. (1989 Code § 12-270)
10-9A-2: USES PERMITTED:
Property and buildings in an I-1 district shall be used only for the following
purposes:
   A.   Any use, except a residential use, permitted in a C-2 general
commercial district. No dwelling uses except sleeping facilities for caretakers
and night watchmen employed on the premises shall be permitted.
   B.   Any use, except a residential use, permitted in a C-3 highway
commercial district. No dwelling uses except sleeping facilities for caretakers
and night watchmen employed on the premises shall be permitted.
   C.   Any of the following uses:
      1.   Bottling works.
      2.   Book bindery.
      3.   Candy manufacturing.
      4.   Engraving plant.
      5.   Electrical equipment assembly.
      6.   Electronic equipment assembly and manufacture.
      7.   Food products processing and packing.
      8.   Furniture manufacturing.
      9.   Instrument and meter manufacturing.
      10.   Jewelry and watch manufacturing.
      11.   Leather goods fabrication.
      12.   Optical goods manufacturing.
      13.   Paper products manufacturing.
      14.   Shoe manufacturing.
      15.   Sporting goods manufacturing.
      16.   Wholesale or warehousing enterprise.
All of the uses permitted under this section shall have their primary
operations conducted entirely within enclosed buildings, and shall not emit any
dust or smoke, or noxious odor or fumes, outside of the building housing the
operation, or produce a noise level occurring on the adjacent street. (1989
Code § 12-271; amd. Ord. 704, 1-16-2001; 2002 Code)
10-9A-3: AREA REGULATIONS:
All buildings shall be set back from the street right-of-way lines and lot
lines to comply with the following yard requirements:
   A.   Front Yard: All buildings shall set back from the street right-of-way
line to provide a front yard having not less than twenty five feet (25') in
depth.
   B.   Side Yard: No building shall be located closer than twenty five feet
(25') to a side lot line, except when abutting an R district, then it shall
have a thirty five foot (35') side yard.
   C.   Rear Yard: No building shall be located closer than twenty five feet
(25') to the rear lot line, except when abutting an R district, then it shall
have a rear yard of fifty feet (50').
   D.   Coverage: Main and accessory buildings and off-street parking and
loading facilities shall not cover more than eighty percent (80%) of the lot
area.
   E.   Landscaping: All yard areas required under this section and other yards
and open spaces existing around buildings shall be landscaped and maintained in
a neat condition. (1989 Code § 12-272)
10-9A-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building or structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height, except
as hereinafter provided in section
10-12-3 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-273)
10-9A-5: SCREENING REQUIRED:
No article or material permitted in this district shall be kept, stored or
displayed outside the confines of a building unless it is so screened by
fences, walls or plantings that it cannot be seen from adjoining public streets
or adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing at ground level. (1989 Code §
12-274)
ARTICLE B.  I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9B-1: Purpose
10-9B-2: Uses Permitted
10-9B-3: Uses Permitted On Review
10-9B-4: Area Regulations
10-9B-5: Height Regulations
10-9B-6: Screening Required
10-9B-1: PURPOSE:
The I-2 general industrial district is intended primarily for the conduct of
criminal incarceration, manufacturing, assembling or fabrication. These uses do
not depend primarily on frequent visits of customers or clients, but usually
require good accessibility to major rail, air or street transportation
facilities. (Ord. 655, 7-16-1996)
10-9B-2: USES PERMITTED:
Property and buildings in an I-2 general industrial district shall be used only
for the following purposes:
   A.   Any use permitted in the I-1 restricted manufacturing and warehousing
district. No dwelling use, except prisons or other correctional facilities or
sleeping facilities required by caretakers or night watchmen employed on the
premises, shall be permitted in an I-2 general industrial district.
   B.   Building materials sales yard and lumber yard, including the sale of
rock, sand, gravel and the like as an incidental part of the main business, but
not including a concrete batch plant or transit mix plant.
   C.   Contractor's equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of equipment
commonly used by contractors.
   D.   Farm produce, grain and feed storage, including grain elevators.
   E.   Freighting or trucking yard or terminal.
   F.   Oil field equipment storage yard.
   G.   Public utility service yard or electrical receiving or transforming
station.
   H.   Town and country equipment service yard.
   I.   The following uses when conducted within a completely enclosed
building:
      1.   Manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of such
products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, dairy products, drugs, perfumes,
pharmaceuticals, perfumed toilet soap, toiletries and food products.
      2.   Manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles or
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: bone, cellophane,
canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fibre, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather,
paper, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stone, shell, textiles,
tobacco, wood, yarn and paint not employing a boiling process.
      3.   Manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic
products, using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas.
      4.   Manufacture and maintenance of electric and neon signs, commercial
advertising structure, light sheet metal products, including heating and
ventilating ducts and equipment, cornices, eaves and the like.
      5.   Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties and rubber and
metal stamps.
      6.   Automobile assembling, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
reconditioning, body and fender works, truck repairing and overhauling, tire
retreading or recapping, and battery manufacturing.
      7.   Machine shop.
      8.   Foundry casting lightweight nonferrous metal not causing noxious
fumes or odors.
      9.   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and
devices, radios and phonographs, including the manufacture of small parts only,
such as coils, condensers, transformers, crystal holders and the like.
   J.   Prisons or other correctional facilities, public or private, including,
but not limited to, halfway houses, work camps and juvenile detention
facilities wherein persons are housed or restrained for the protection of the
public. There shall be provided adequate security measures to ensure the
protection of the public. All security measures may be subject to review and
approval by the city council.
   K.   Buildings, structures and uses accessory and customarily incidental to
any of the above uses, and in the case of prisons or other correctional
facilities, including, but not limited to, food service, laundry, medical
facilities, administration, security, library and other services or activities
which primarily serve or relate to the incarcerates therein.
The uses permitted under this section shall be conducted in such a manner that
no noxious odor, fumes or dust will be emitted beyond the property line of the
lot on which the use is located. (1989 Code § 12-278; amd. Ord. 655, 7-16-1996;
Ord. 678, 1-18-1999; 2002 Code)
10-9B-3: USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW:
The following uses may be permitted on review by the planning commission in
accordance with the provisions contained in section
10-2-2 of this title:
   A.   Cement, lime or gypsum manufacture.
   B.   Commercial feed pens for livestock.
   C.   Disposal plants of all types, including trash and garbage, sewage
treatment including lagoons and compost plants.
   D.   Natural gas production and distribution.
   E.   Packing house.
   F.   Petroleum production and refining.
   G.   Sale barn.
   H.   Salvage yards for automobiles, building materials, scrap metal, junk or
for any other kind of salvage; provided, however, that all salvage operations
shall be so screened by ornamental walls, fences or evergreen planting that it
cannot be seen by a person standing at ground level at any place immediately
adjacent to the lot on which the salvage operation is located.
   I.   Wholesale or bulk storage of gasoline, propane or butane, or other
petroleum products.
   J.   Any use not otherwise authorized by this article. (1989 Code § 12-279)
10-9B-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front And Side Yard: There are no specific front or side yard
requirements for uses in this district; provided, however, that a building
shall set back a distance of not less than twenty five feet (25') from the side
lot lines that adjoin a dwelling district. When abutting an R district, a side
yard of fifty feet (50') shall be required.
   B.   Rear Yard: Where a building is to be serviced from the rear, there
shall be provided an alley, service court, rear yard or combination thereof of
not less than thirty feet (30') in width or of adequate area and width to
provide for maneuver of service vehicles, whichever is the greater. In all
other cases, no rear yard is required; provided, however, that a building shall
set back a distance of not less than twenty five feet (25') from the rear lot
line that adjoins a dwelling district.
   C.   Yard Area: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area adequate to
meet the off-street parking requirements set forth in section
10-12-9 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-280)
10-9B-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height, except as
hereinafter provided in section
10-12-3 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-281)
10-9B-6: SCREENING REQUIRED:
No article or material permitted in this district shall be kept, stored or
displayed outside the confines of a building unless so screened by fences,
walls or plantings that it cannot be seen from adjoining public streets or
adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing at ground level. (1989 Code §
12-282)
CHAPTER 10
F FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Intent
10-10-2: Purpose
10-10-3: Lands Applicable
10-10-4: Compliance Required
10-10-5: Interpretation
10-10-6: Flood Plain Administrator
10-10-7: Definitions
10-10-8: Findings Of Fact
10-10-9: Uses Permitted
10-10-10: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-10-11: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-10-12: Development Permit
10-10-13: Application For Permit
10-10-14: Variances
10-10-15: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
10-10-16: Subdivision Proposals In Flood Hazard Areas
10-10-17: Shallow Flooding Zones; Standards
10-10-18: Floodways
10-10-19: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-10-20: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-10-1: INTENT:
The F flood plain district is intended to comprise those areas which are
subject to periodic or occasional flooding and therefor are unsuited for all
residential uses and for most commercial and industrial uses. It is intended
that the area be retained for agricultural and recreational uses only until
danger from flooding is eliminated. (1989 Code § 12-290)
10-10-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
flood plains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (1989 Code § 12-293)
10-10-3: LANDS APPLICABLE:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the community. (1989 Code § 12-296)
10-10-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed, without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (1989 Code § 12-299)
10-10-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (1989 Code § 12-301)
10-10-6: FLOOD PLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation; Appointment: The city manager, or his designated official
or city employee, is hereby appointed the flood plain administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to
flood plain management. (1989 Code § 12-303; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the flood
plain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building
sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1934) from which prior approval is required;
      5.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions);
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
Oklahoma water resources board prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency
management administration;
      7.   Assure that flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse is maintained;
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
10-10-11 of this chapter, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation data available from a federal, state or other source, in order to
administer the provisions of this chapter; and
      9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the flood plain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. (1989
Code § 12-304)
10-10-7: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application. The following terms
as used herein will mean:
APPEAL: A request for a review of an interpretation by the community board of
trustees or its designated agency of any provision of this chapter or a request
for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH or VO zone on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building:
   A.   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A-99, AO, AH,
B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in zones V1-30, VE or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of
the water; and
   B.   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the
building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case
of zones A1-30, AE, A, A-99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, "elevated building" also
includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter
walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood
waters. In the case of zones V1-30, VE or V, "elevated building" also includes
a building otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building", even though
the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls, if the breakaway walls
meet the standards of section 60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance
program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. Existing
construction may also be referred to as existing structures.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management administration has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration. The report contains flood profiles, the water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood hazard boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated and expended, and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A floor used
for storage purposes only is not a "habitable floor".
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood plain
management purposes, the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For flood plain management purposes, structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a flood plain
management regulation adopted by a community.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground, as
well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred;
   B.   For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or a state inventory of historic places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's flood plain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or riverine
areas. (1989 Code § 12-295)
10-10-8: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the community are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in flood plains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (1989 Code § 12-292)
10-10-9: USES PERMITTED:
Property and buildings in the F flood plain district shall be used only for the
following purposes:
   A.   Growing of agricultural crops and nursery stock and gardening.
   B.   Raising of poultry and livestock in accordance with the municipal
ordinances relating thereto, but not with operation of commercial feed pens for
cattle or hogs.
   C.   Public recreation. (1989 Code § 12-291; amd. 2002 Code)
10-10-10: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations are established to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
increase flood hazards to other lands. (1989 Code § 12-294)
10-10-11: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency on its flood insurance study for the community, with
accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) and flood boundary-floodway maps
(FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference are declared to be a part of this chapter. (1989 Code § 12-297)
10-10-12: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1989 Code § 12-298)
10-10-13: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Information Required: Application for a development permit shall be
presented to the flood plain administrator on forms developed by him and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the
location, dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas
of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection 10-10-15B2 of this chapter;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection 10-10-6B1 of this chapter.
   B.   Factors; Decision: Approval or denial of a development permit by the
flood plain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (1989 Code § 12-305)
10-10-14: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: The board of adjustment as established by the community
shall hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements
of this chapter.
   B.   Conditions: The board of adjustment shall hear and render judgment on
an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement,
decision or determination made by the flood plain administrator in the
enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   C.   Appeal To Court: Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the
board of adjustment may appeal such decision in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   D.   Records, Reporting: The flood plain administrator shall maintain a
record of all actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to the
federal emergency management administration upon request.
   E.   Historic Places: Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the national register of
historic places or the state inventory of historic places, without regard to
the procedures set forth in the remainder of this section.
   F.   Lot Size And Conditions: Generally, variances may be issued for new
construction and substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half
(1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the relevant
factors in section
10-10-13 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   G.   Conditions Attached: Upon consideration of the factors noted above and
the intent of this chapter, the board of adjustment may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of section
10-10-2 of this chapter. (1989 Code § 12-306; amd. 2002 Code)
   H.   Increase In Flood Levels Prohibited: Variances shall not be issued
within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
   I.   Prerequisites: Prerequisites for granting variances include the
following:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances; and
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   J.   Other Necessary Development: Variances may be issued by a community for
new construction and substantial improvements and for other development
necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use; provided, that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsections A through I of this section are
met; and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (1989 Code § 12-306)
10-10-15: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   Anchoring: All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
designed or modified and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   Minimize Flood Damage: All new construction or substantial
improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage;
      3.   Resistant To Flood Damage: All new construction or substantial
improvements shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment
resistant to flood damage;
      4.   Service Facilities: All new construction or substantial improvements
shall be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   Water Systems: All new and replacement water supply systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      6.   Sewage Systems: New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system
and discharges from the systems into flood waters; and
      7.   Waste Disposal Systems: On-site waste disposal systems shall be
located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(1989 Code § 12-307)
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in subsections 10-10-6B8,
10-10-16D or section
10-10-11 of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the flood plain administrator that the standard of this subsection, as
proposed in section
10-10-13 of this chapter, is satisfied;
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop a review structural design, specifications and plans
for construction and shall certify that the design and methods of construction
are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this
subsection. A record of this certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the flood plain administrator;
      3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding, shall
be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting
this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; or
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters; or
      4.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A
shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For
the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and
anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces;
         b.   All manufactured homes shall be in compliance with this chapter;
and
         c.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1989 Code § 12-308)
10-10-16: SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with this chapter. (1989
Code § 12-309; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions shall meet
development permit requirements of sections
10-10-12 through
10-10-18 of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development which is greater than the lesser of fifty (50)
lots or five (5) acres, if not otherwise provided pursuant to subsection 10-10-
6B and section
10-10-11 of this chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage. (1989 Code § 12-309)
10-10-17: SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES; STANDARDS:
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in this chapter
are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and therefore, the following provisions apply:
   A.   Residential Structures: All new construction and substantial
improvements of residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified on the community's FIRM, or at least two feet (2') if no
depth number is specified;
   B.   Nonresidential Structures: All new construction and substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures shall:
      1.   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the
FIRM, or at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified; or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
   C.   Certification: A registered professional engineer or architect shall
submit a certification to the flood plain administrator that the standards of
this section, as proposed in section
10-10-13 of this chapter, are satisfied; and
   D.   Drainage Paths: Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes are
required within zones AH or AO to guide flood waters around and away from
proposed structures. (1989 Code § 12-310)
10-10-18: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in this
chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification by a
professional registered engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels within the
community during occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of sections
10-10-15 through
10-10-17 of this chapter. (1989 Code § 12-311)
10-10-19: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail. (1989 Code § 12-300)
10-10-20: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (1989 Code §
12-302)
CHAPTER 11
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purposes
10-11-2: General Provisions
10-11-3: Uses Permitted
10-11-4: Bulk And Area Requirements
10-11-5: Perimeter Requirements
10-11-6: Off-Street Parking And Loading
10-11-7: Application For Development; Administration
10-11-1: PURPOSES:
The purposes of planned unit development are:
   A.   To permit flexibility that will encourage a more creative approach in
the development of land and will result in a more efficient use of open area,
while maintaining density and area coverage permitted in the general zoning
district or districts in which the project is located; and
   B.   To permit flexibility in design, placement of buildings, and use of
open spaces, circulation facilities and off-street parking areas, and to best
utilize the potential of sites characterized by special features of geography,
topography, size or shape. (1989 Code § 12-340)
10-11-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Minimum Acreage: Planned unit development is permitted on tracts of not
less than ten (10) acres in size.
   B.   Review Requirements: In every instance, the PUD is to be reviewed as to
the proposed location and character of the uses and the unified treatment of
the development of the tract. The regulations of the general zoning district or
districts remain applicable except as specifically modified pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. No modification of use or bulk and area
requirements of the applicable general use district or districts shall be
permitted unless a subdivision plat incorporating the provisions and
requirements of this chapter is submitted to and approved by the planning
commission and city council and filed on record in the office of the county
clerk. (1989 Code § 12-341)
10-11-3: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Principal Uses: A planned development shall primarily be residential
when located within an R-1 or R-2 district. The development may consist of one
or more of the following dwelling types: single-family detached dwelling,
duplex dwelling, multi- family dwelling, town house and similar uses. The uses,
other than dwellings, which are permitted by right or exception in the R
districts may be included within a PUD, if such nonresidential uses do not
occupy more than ten percent (10%) of the gross area of the PUD which are in
the R-1 and/or R-2 zones, and are designed and located to be compatible with
the residential uses of the PUD and with the residential use of adjacent
properties. Land set aside for public facilities such as schools, libraries or
firehouses shall be excluded for the purposes of calculating the gross area of
the PUD. The uses permitted in areas zoned as commercial or industrial
districts shall be limited to those uses permitted in the district to which the
property is zoned.
   B.   Accessory, Commercial Uses: Accessory uses customarily incident to the
residential uses included within the PUD are permitted. Accessory signs shall
comply with the provisions of the residential districts except, as hereafter
provided, for accessory commercial facilities may be included within the PUD in
accordance with the following standards:
      1.   The commercial uses shall be limited to convenience goods and
services and eating places other than drive-ins;
      2.   The aggregate floor area of the commercial facilities shall not
exceed fifty (50) square feet per dwelling unit, nor a total of thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet;
      3.   Each commercial establishment shall be limited to a maximum of three
thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet of floor area;
      4.   Commercial signs shall be limited to one nameplate of not more than
sixteen (16) square feet for each establishment. Nameplates shall be attached
flat against a building wall and shall not be animated, flashing, or have other
than indirect illumination. Window signs shall not be permitted; and
      5.   The commercial area shall be designed primarily for the service,
convenience and benefit of the residents of the PUD, and shall be designed and
located in such manner as to be compatible with the residential use of the PUD
and of adjacent properties. (1989 Code § 12-342)
10-11-4: BULK AND AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Width And Lot Area Minimums: Within a PUD, a minimum lot size
requirement of eight hundred (800) square feet shall apply to lots utilized for
dwelling purposes. A minimum lot width requirement of twenty feet (20') shall
apply to lots utilized for dwelling purposes.
   B.   Number Of Permitted Dwelling Units: It is the intent of this chapter
that the aggregate density and intensity of use within the PUD remain the same
as that which would be permitted if the area were developed conventionally, but
that within the PUD the permitted number of dwelling units may be reallocated
irrespective of use district lines or lot lines. The maximum number of
permitted dwelling units within a PUD shall be computed as follows:
   Permitted dwelling units:   Residential area of the PUD divided by
Minimum land area per dwelling unit permitted in the applicable use district.
The residential area for the purposes of the above described computation shall
be the gross area of the PUD less the lot area or areas designated for any use
other than dwellings, quasi-dwellings, residential open space and recreation
areas. Each six hundred (600) square feet of a quasi- dwelling, such as a care
home, shall constitute a dwelling unit. If the PUD is within two (2) or more
use districts, the permitted density shall be the sum of the permitted dwelling
units computed separately for the residential area within each district.
   C.   Livability Space: Livability space may be provided on the lot
containing the dwelling unit or units on which computed, or in common areas.
Common livability space shall be designed and located so as to be accessible to
the dwelling units it is intended to serve. Provisions for the ownership and
maintenance of common livability space as will ensure its continuity and
conservation shall be incorporated in the subdivision plat, in compliance with
the provisions of section
10-11-7 of this chapter.
   D.   Building Height: Within a PUD, the maximum building height shall be
established in the outline at section
10-11-5 of this chapter. (1989 Code § 12-343)
10-11-5: PERIMETER REQUIREMENTS:
The building setback from the exterior boundaries of the PUD shall not be less
than the minimum yards customarily required for the district or districts in
which located; provided, that within two hundred feet (200') of any abutting
property in an R-1 classification, structures containing more than two (2)
dwelling units and exceeding fifteen feet (15') in height measured from the
ground floor to the top of the top place shall be set back twenty five feet
(25') plus two feet (2') of setback for each one foot (1') of building height
exceeding fifteen feet (15'), measured from the ground floor level to the top
of the top place. Unenclosed off-street parking area, containing six (6) or
more spaces, shall be screened from adjoining R-1 districts by the erection of
a screening wall or fence along the lot line or lines in common with the R-
1 district; provided, that if the parking area is located more than fifty feet
(50') from the R-1 district, the screening requirement shall not apply. (1989
Code § 12-344)
10-11-6: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as specified in the
applicable use units and in conformance with the requirements of
10-12-9 of this title. Required spaces may be provided on the lot containing
the dwelling units for which it is intended to serve or in common areas. A
common parking area shall be designed and located so as to be accessible to the
dwelling units it is intended to serve. Provisions for the ownership and
maintenance of common parking space as will ensure its continuity and
conservation shall be incorporated in the subdivision plat, in compliance with
the provisions of section
10-11-7 of this chapter. (1989 Code § 12-345)
10-11-7: APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT; ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Authority: Any person, corporation, partnership, association or
combination thereof, owning or possessing a property right or interest in or to
a tract of not less than ten (10) acres in size may make application for the
approval of a PUD by filing an application for an outline development plan and
a supplemental zoning district designation PUD. An application for the approval
of an outline development plan and the supplemental district designation PUD
may be processed simultaneously with and contingent upon an application for an
amendment to the zoning map. (1989 Code § 12-346)
   B.   Filing; Fee; Plan: An application for a planned unit development shall
be filed with the planning commission. The application shall be accompanied by
the payment of a fee in such amount as established by resolution of the city
council. Such fee shall not include advertising and sign costs which shall be
billed to the applicant. The application shall be in such form and content as
the planning commission may by resolution establish; provided, that three (3)
copies of an outline development plan shall accompany the filing of the
application. The outline development plan shall consist of maps and/or text
which contain: (1989 Code § 12-346; amd. 2002 Code)
      1.   Existing topographic character of the land;
      2.   Proposed land uses, including public uses and open space and the
approximate location of buildings and other structures;
      3.   The character and approximate density of dwellings. Density shall be
expressed in number of dwelling units and quantitative area of each
identifiable segment of the PUD;
      4.   The approximate location of thoroughfares;
      5.   Sufficient surrounding area to demonstrate the relationship of the
PUD to adjoining uses, both existing and proposed;
      6.   An explanation of the character of the planned development; and
      7.   The expected schedule of development.
   C.   Public Hearing; Notice: The planning commission, upon the filing of an
application for the supplemental district designation PUD, shall set the matter
for public hearing and give fifteen (15) days' notice thereof by publication in
a newspaper of general circulation. Where deemed necessary by the planning
commission, additional notice shall be given by the posting of a sign or signs
on the property as set forth in chapter 2 of this title. Within sixty (60) days
after the filing of an application, the planning commission shall conduct the
public hearing and shall determine:
      1.   Whether the PUD is consistent with the comprehensive plan;
      2.   Whether the PUD harmonizes with the existing and expected
development of surrounding areas;
      3.   Whether the PUD is a unified treatment of the development
possibilities of the project site; and
      4.   Whether the PUD is consistent with the stated purposes and standards
of this chapter.
   D.   Approval; Recommendation: When a supplemental district designation PUD
is approved, the planning commission shall forward its recommendation, the
application and the outline development plan, to the city council for further
hearing as provided in subsection E of this section.
   E.   City Council Action: Upon receipt of the application, outline
development plan and planning commission recommendation, the city council shall
hold a hearing, review the outline development plan, approve, disapprove,
modify, or return the outline development plan to the planning commission for
further consideration. Upon approval, the zoning map shall be amended to
reflect the supplemental designation PUD, and the applicant shall be authorized
to process a subdivision plat incorporating the provisions of the outline
development plan.
   F.   Subdivision Plat: A planned unit development subdivision plat shall be
filed with the planning commission and shall be processed in accordance with
the subdivision regulations, and in addition to the requirements of the
subdivision regulations, shall include:
      1.   Details as to the location of uses and street arrangement;
      2.   Provisions for the ownership and maintenance of the common open
space as will reasonably ensure its continuity and conservation. Open space may
be dedicated to a private association or to the public; provided, that a
dedication to the public shall not be accepted without the approval of the city
council; and
      3.   Such covenants as will reasonably ensure the continued compliance
with the approved outline development plan. In order that the public interest
may be protected, the city shall be made beneficiary of the covenants
pertaining to such matters as location of uses, height of structures, setbacks,
screening and access. Such covenants shall provide that the city may enforce
compliance therewith.
   G.   Building Permit: No building permits shall be issued on lands within
the PUD except in accordance with the approved subdivision plat filed on record
with the county clerk. A building permit for a freestanding or separate
commercial structure shall not be issued until building permits have been
issued for at least one- half (1/2) of the number of dwelling units on which
the authorization of the commercial use is based; provided, however, that in
the case of PUD providing for more than six hundred (600) dwelling units, the
city must permit a portion of the proposed commercial development to be
constructed prior to the construction of one-half (1/2) of the dwelling units
where such improvements bear a reasonable relationship between the number of
living units and the staging of commercial development and the relationship is
so stated and contained in the approved outline development plan.
   H.   Changes: Minor changes in the platted PUD may be authorized by the
planning commission upon a review of a proposed amended subdivision plat,
incorporating such changes, so long as substantial compliance is maintained
with the outlined development plan and the purposes and standards of the PUD
provisions hereof. Changes which would represent a significant departure from
the outline development plan shall require formal abandonment and the
subsequent filing of a new application for planned unit development.
   I.   Abandonment: Abandonment of a planned unit development shall require
the city council's approval, after recommendation by the planning commission,
repealing the supplemental designation of PUD. (1989 Code § 12-346)
CHAPTER 12
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL OR SEVERAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Application Of More Restricted District
10-12-2: Open Space
10-12-3: Height
10-12-4: Storage And Parking Of Mobile Homes, Travel Trailers And RVs
10-12-5: Architectural Design Of Accessory Buildings And Fences
10-12-6: Animals
10-12-7: Storage Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases
10-12-8: Trailer Park Regulations
10-12-9: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-12-10: Manufactured Housing Regulations
10-12-1: APPLICATION OF MORE RESTRICTED DISTRICT:
   A.   Whenever the specific district regulations pertaining to one district
permit the uses of a more restricted district, such uses shall be subject to
the conditions as set forth in the regulations of the more restricted district,
unless otherwise specified.
   B.   It is intended that these regulations be interpreted as not permitting
a dwelling unit to be located on the same lot with or within a structure used
or intended to be used for nonresidential purposes. (1989 Code § 12-360)
10-12-2: OPEN SPACE:
The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions or qualify and
supplement, as the case may be, the specific district regulations set forth in
this title: (1989 Code § 12-361; amd. 2002 Code)
   A.   An open space or lot area required for an existing building or
structure shall not be counted as open space for any other building or
structure.
   B.   Open eaves, cornices, window sills and belt courses may project into
any required yard a distance not to exceed two feet (2'). Open uncovered
porches or open fire escapes may project into a front or rear yard a distance
not to exceed five feet (5'). Fences, walls and hedges in residential districts
may be erected in any required yard, or along the edge of any yard; provided,
that no fence, wall or hedge located in front of the front building line shall
exceed three feet (3') in height, and no other wall or fence shall exceed seven
feet (7') in height.
   C.   Where the dedicated street right of way is less than fifty feet (50'),
the depth of the front yard shall be measured starting at a point twenty five
feet (25') from the centerline of the street easement.
   D.   No dwelling shall be erected on a lot which does not abut on at least
one street, at least fifty feet (50') in width, for a distance of not less than
thirty five feet (35'). A street shall form the direct and primary means of
ingress and egress for all dwelling units. Alleys, where they exist, shall form
only a secondary means of ingress and egress.
   E.   No minimum lot sizes and open spaces are prescribed for commercial and
industrial uses. It is the intent of this chapter that lots of sufficient size
be used by any business or industry to provide adequate parking and loading and
unloading space required for operation of the enterprise.
   F.   On any corner lot on which a front and side yard are required, no wall,
fence, sign, structure or any plant growth which obstructs sight lines at
elevations between two feet six inches (2'6") and six feet (6') above any
portion of the crown of the adjacent roadway shall be maintained in a triangle
formed by measuring from the point of intersection of the front and exterior
side lot lines a distance of twenty five feet (25') along the front and side
lot lines and connecting the points so established to form a right angle on the
area of the lot adjacent to the street intersection.
   G.   An attached or detached private garage which faces on a street shall
not be located closer than twenty five feet (25') to the street easement line.
   H.   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory
building shall be used unless the main building on the lot is also being used.
(1989 Code § 12-361)
10-12-3: HEIGHT:
The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions or qualify and
supplement, as the case may be, the specific district regulations set forth in
this title: (1989 Code § 12-362; amd. 2002 Code)
   A.   In measuring heights, a habitable basement or attic shall be counted as
a story. A story in a sloping roof, the area of which story at a height of four
feet (4') above the floor does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the floor area of
the story immediately below it and which does not contain an independent
apartment, shall be counted as a half story.
   B.   Chimneys, elevators, poles, spires, tanks, towers and other projections
not used for human occupancy may extend above the height limit.
   C.   Churches, schools, hospitals, sanatoriums, and other public and
semipublic buildings may exceed the height limitation of the district if the
minimum depth of the rear yards and the minimum width of the side yards
required in the district are increased one foot (1') for each two feet (2') by
which the height of such public or semipublic building exceeds the prescribed
height limit. (1989 Code § 12-362)
10-12-4: STORAGE AND PARKING OF MOBILE HOMES, TRAVEL TRAILERS AND RVs:
   A.   A mobile home shall be parked or stored only in a trailer court which
is in conformity with the ordinances of the city. (1989 Code § 12-363)
   B.   A travel trailer or recreational vehicle used for residential purposes
shall be parked in a trailer court or RV park which is in conformity with the
ordinances of the city. Travel trailers or RVs used for temporary residential
purposes shall be allowed to be parked adjacent to a residence for a period of
fourteen (14) days upon obtaining a nonrenewable ten dollar ($10.00) permit
from the city clerk. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the storage of a
travel trailer or RV on private property provided utilities are not connected
to the unit. (Ord. 715, 10-15-2002)
10-12-5: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND FENCES:
The architectural design and materials used for the construction of accessory
buildings and fences shall harmonize with the main building to which the
building or fence is accessory. (1989 Code § 12-364)
10-12-6: ANIMALS:
Animals in any district shall be kept only in accordance with the ordinances of
the city. (1989 Code § 12-365)
10-12-7: STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES 1 :
The use of land or buildings for the commercial wholesale or retail storage of
liquefied petroleum gases shall be in accordance with the ordinances of the
city and the regulations of the liquefied petroleum gas administration of the
state. (1989 Code § 12-366)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 9-8-1 of this code for adopted provisions.
10-12-8: TRAILER PARK REGULATIONS:
Travel trailer parks and mobile home parks shall be constructed in accordance
with the requirements of chapter 15 of this title. (1989 Code § 12-367)
10-12-9: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Intent; Application: It is the intent of these requirements that
adequate parking and loading facilities be provided off the street easement for
each use of land within the city. Requirements are intended to be based on the
demand created by each use. These requirements shall apply to all uses in the
districts. (1989 Code § 12-368)
   B.   Required Open Space:
      1.   Off street parking or loading space shall be a part of the required
open space associated with the permitted use and shall not be reduced or
encroached upon in any manner.
      2.   The area required for off street parking shall be in addition to the
yard areas herein required; except that the front yard required in a C-
1 neighborhood shopping district of an I-1 restricted manufacturing and
wholesale district may be used for uncovered parking area; and further
provided, that the front yard required in a residential district may be used
for the uncovered parking area for six (6) or less vehicles associated with a
residential use when the area is surfaced with a sealed surface pavement
adequate to prevent the occurrence of mud and dust with continued use, and may
be used for uncovered parking area for more than six (6) vehicles in accordance
with the provisions of subsection G of this section. (1989 Code § 12-369)
   C.   Location: The off street parking lot shall be located within two
hundred feet (200'), exclusive of street and alley widths, of the principal use
and shall have direct access to a street or alley. (1989 Code § 12-370)
   D.   Joint Parking Facilities: Whenever two (2) or more uses are located
together in a common building, shopping center or other integrated building
complex, the parking requirements may be complied with by providing a permanent
common parking facility, cooperatively established and operated, which contains
the requisite number of spaces for each use. The total number of spaces
provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual requirements. (1989
Code § 12-371)
   E.   Size Of Off-Street Parking Space: The size of a parking space for one
vehicle shall consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than
nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20'), plus adequate area for ingress and egress.
(1989 Code § 12-372)
   F.   Amount Of Off-Street Parking And Loading Required: Off-street parking
and loading facilities shall be provided in all districts in accordance with
the following schedule:
Boarding or rooming house or hotel      1 parking space for each 2 guests
                                        providing overnight accommodations.
                                        1 parking space for each 150 square
Commercial establishments not otherwise feet of floor space used for retail
classified                              trade in the building and including all
                                        areas used by the public.
Community center, theater, auditorium,  1 parking space for each 4 seats, based
church sanctuary                        on maximum seating capacity.
Convention hall, lodge, club, library,  1 parking space for each 50 square feet
museum, place of amusement or           of floor area used for assembly or
recreation                              recreation in the building.
                                        The number of spaces provided shall not
Dwelling, multiple-family               be less than 11/2 times the number of
                                        units in the dwelling.
Dwelling, single-family or duplex       1 parking space for each separate
                                        dwelling unit within the structure.
                                        1 space for each 4 patient beds,
                                        exclusive of bassinets, plus 1 space
Hospitals                               for each staff or visiting doctor, plus
                                        1 space for each 3 employees, including
                                        nurses, plus adequate area for the
                                        parking of emergency vehicles.
                                        Adequate area to park all employees'
                                        and customers' vehicles at all times
Industrial establishments               and adequate space for loading,
                                        unloading and storing all vehicles used
                                        incidental to or as a part of the
                                        primary operation of the establishment.
Medical or dental clinics or offices    6 spaces per doctor, plus 1 space for
                                        each 2 employees.
                                        1 parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of gross floor area in the
Office building                         building, exclusive of the area used
                                        for storage, utilities and building
                                        service.
                                        1 space for each 6 patient beds, plus 1
Sanatoriums, convalescent or nursing    space for each staff or visiting
homes                                   doctor, plus 1 space for each 2
                                        employees, including nurses.
 
For all uses not covered in the above, the planning commission shall make a
determination of the parking demand to be created by the proposed use, and the
amount of parking thus determined shall be the off-street parking requirements
for the permitted use. (1989 Code § 12-373)
   G.   Off-Street Parking Lots In Residential Districts: Whenever off-street
parking lots for more than six (6) vehicles are to be located within or
adjacent to a residential district, the following provisions shall apply:
      1.   No parking shall be permitted within a front yard setback
established fifteen feet (15') back of the property line of interior and corner
lots wherever the parking lot is located in a residential district or
immediately abuts the front yard of a residential unit. In all other cases, no
setback shall be required;
      2.   All yards shall be landscaped with grass and shrubs and maintained
in good condition year round;
      3.   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to and shall
not exceed twenty five feet (25') in width, exclusive of curb returns;
      4.   Whenever lighting is provided, the intensity of light and
arrangement of reflectors shall be such as not to interfere with residential
district uses;
      5.   No sign of any kind shall be erected except information signs used
to guide traffic and to state the conditions and terms of the use of the lots.
Only nonintermittent white lighting of signs shall be permitted; and
      6.   All of the lot used for parking and driveway purposes shall be paved
with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in such a manner that no dust
will be produced by continued use. (1989 Code § 12-374)
10-12-10: MANUFACTURED HOUSING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms,
words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated hereinbelow:
MANUFACTURED HOUSING: Manufactured housing (or home) means a structure,
constructed on or after June 15, 1976, according to the rules of the United
States department of housing and urban development, transportable in one or
more sections, which, in traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in
width or forty (40) body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is
three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein;
except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
secretary for the United States department of housing and urban development and
complies with the standards established under national manufactured housing
construction and safety standards act of 1974, 42 USC section 5401 et seq.
There shall be recognized two (2) different classes of manufactured housing,
which must meet the requirement as set forth in this section:
MANUFACTURED HOUSING, FREESTANDING: The term "freestanding manufactured
housing" or "travel trailer" shall mean any manufactured housing or travel
trailer not located in a mobile home park or travel trailer park respectively,
licensed by the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, or in an approved manufactured home
subdivision.
MODULAR HOME: Any factory fabricated, transportable building unit, not built
upon a permanent chassis, designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated
with similar units on a permanent foundation. The term is intended to apply to
major assemblies and does not include prefabricated subelements incorporated
into a structure at the site, nor does it include any type of "manufactured
housing" as defined herein. Any "modular home" must meet U.S. government
"modular home" certification standards.
NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER: Any vehicle having the basic characteristics of
either manufactured home, or a travel trailer, but which is used for purposes
other than residential and is not being offered for sale (as indicated by a
clearly displayed sign on or near the trailer).
TRAVEL TRAILER: All vehicles and portable structures built on a chassis,
designed as a dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use. No travel
trailer shall be used as a permanent dwelling unless located in a properly,
permitted travel trailer park. For purposes of regulation under this section,
"dependent manufactured home" shall be considered to be the same as a travel
trailer, unless otherwise specified.
   B.   Type I Manufactured Housing: Type I manufactured housing shall:
      1.   Have more than one thousand (1,000) square feet of occupied space in
a typically double section or larger multi-section unit, with a minimum width
of twenty four feet (24');
      2.   Be placed onto a permanent foundation, and be anchored to the
ground, in accordance with the town's foundation code or other adopted
foundation requirements, and the manufacturer's specifications;
      3.   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure, in accordance with
municipality approved installation standards;
      4.   Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed and taken off the
premises where the manufactured home is located;
      5.   Have all utilities connected, in accordance with the appropriate
municipal codes and manufacturer's specifications;
      6.   Have siding material or veneer of a type customarily used on site
built residences in the community and neighborhood;
      7.   Have roofing material of a type conforming to city of Sayre and/or
industry building codes with a roof pitch of not less than three feet (3') of
rise for every twelve feet (12') of run;
      8.   Be compatible with other housing in the immediate area where it is
to be permanently placed;
      9.   Have a front and rear door in conformance with applicable standards
and/or city of Sayre building codes;
      10.   Have a minimum eave width of six inches (6");
      11.   Be no more than five (5) years old;
      12.   Be placed with a side parallel to a platted street, the main
entrance facing the street and in a direction that is compatible to the
neighborhood with the lot having no less than fifty (50) front feet.
      13.   Modular homes shall be considered type I manufactured homes.
   C.   Type II Manufactured Housing: Type II manufactured housing shall be all
other manufactured housing.
      1.   Type II Manufactured Home Regulations: Whenever a type II
manufactured home is permitted on review by the mayor and city council, it
shall comply with the following regulations:
         a.   Age: It shall not be more than five (5) years old as evidenced by
a copy of the title which shall be made a part of the application;
         b.   Square Footage: It shall be a minimum of eight hundred (800)
square feet in living area;
         c.   Wind Security: It shall be sufficiently secured so as to
withstand sustained winds of seventy (70) miles per hour; (Ord. 741, 10-16-
2007)
         d.   Skirting: All manufactured housing shall have skirts in place
prior to occupancy and the skirting shall:
            (1) Be completely around the structure, from the base of the
manufactured home to the ground level beneath;
            (2) Be of material with similar appearance to the manufactured home
or masonry material and shall not be corrugated material run horizontally;
            (3) Be weather resistant material for skirting and shall not be
scrap metal or polyurethane scrap material;
            (4) Be skirted in such a way as not to allow access to the
underside of the manufactured home for storage and/or trash accumulation or
animals or varmints but access only for repair purposes to the manufactured
home;
         e.   Footings: Before digging the tie down footings, the lot the
manufactured housing is to be placed on must be leveled. After lot has been
leveled, footings dug and poured, then the type II manufactured home may be
moved into place and anchored to the ground, in compliance with this code or
other adopted foundation requirements, and the manufacturer's specifications.
The tie down footings shall be twelve inches (12") wide and sixteen inches
(16") deep, with two (2) 2-inch rebars spaced ten inches (10") apart, wired to
rebar pin stakes on four inch (4") centers, in each footing ditch, with each
footing ditch dug eight inches (8") apart under the entire length of the type
II manufactured home;
         f.   Siding: Have siding material or veneer of a type customarily used
on site built residences in the community and neighborhood;
         g.   Roof Material: Have roofing material of a type conforming to city
of Sayre and/or industry building codes with a roof pitch of not less than
three feet (3') of rise for every twelve feet (12') of run;
         h.   Compatibility: Be compatible with other housing in the immediate
area where it is to be permanently placed;
         i.   Doors: Have a front and rear door in conformance with applicable
standards and/or city of Sayre building codes;
         j.   Eaves: Have a minimum eave width of six inches (6"); (Ord. 10-5-
18, 5-18-2010)
         k.   Utility Connections: The type II manufactured home shall have
direct sewer and water connections to the municipal sewer and water mains,
where available, and the type II manufactured home shall not connect to the
sewer or water service line serving any other residence. Such connections shall
be made by a licensed plumber. In the event that the type II manufactured home
is located so that it cannot be tied to the municipal water and sewer systems,
then it shall have such provisions for sewage and water as may be required by
the state department of health;
         l.   Area Regulations: The type II manufactured home shall conform
with the area regulations provided in the applicable district regulations;
         m.   Limitation Of Permit: When a type II manufactured home is
permitted on review, the permit issued thereby shall apply only to the type II
manufactured home placed upon the property under the first permit, and should
that type II manufactured home be removed, a new permit would be required for
any additional or different home;
         n.   Expiration Of Permits For Existing Type II Manufactured Homes:
Type II manufactured homes permitted on review within the city on the effective
date hereof, shall be brought into compliance with the terms of this section
within one year from the effective date hereof, or the permits previously
issued therefor shall be revoked, and the type II manufactured home ordered
removed from the property. (Ord. 741, 10-16-2007; amd. Ord. 10-5-18, 5-18-2010)
      2.   Existing Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes lawfully located in
the city of Sayre as of the effective date hereof shall be allowed to remain,
but in the event such structure is moved, destroyed, remodeled, or replaced,
any new portions or replaced homes shall comply with this section. Any home
occupied as of the effective date hereof that hereafter becomes vacant and
remains unoccupied for a continuous period of six (6) months shall be deemed
abandoned and shall not thereafter be occupied without complying with this
section.
   D.   Manufactured Home And Travel Trailer Requirements:
      1.   No freestanding manufactured home or travel trailer shall be
permitted within the corporate limits of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, unless it
is being offered for sale or parked for storage.
      2.   No freestanding manufactured home shall be permitted on a tract of
land unless:
         a.   If a type I manufactured home:
            (1) It is located in a mobile home park, or
            (2) It is located in an agricultural area of not less than ten (10)
acres, or
            (3) It is located on contiguous and adjacent town lots (consisting
of sufficient frontage, as to allow the placement of said manufactured home on
the lots in such manner that the front entry doors face an adjacent municipal
street),
            (4) It has complied with the uses permitted on review requirements
pursuant to subsection H of this section.
         b.   If a type II manufactured home:
            (1) It is located in a mobile home park, or
            (2) It is located in an agricultural area of not less than ten (10)
acres, or
            (3) It has complied with the uses permitted on review requirements
pursuant to subsection H of this section.
   E.   Miscellaneous Requirements:
      1.   Regardless of other provisions or definitions in this code, any and
all type I manufactured homes permitted and moved into the city of Sayre must
have a permanent foundation. Such foundation shall be a solid slab of concrete
or cement or shall be set on a perimeter foundation footing made of brick,
block or rock not exceeding twenty eight inches (28") in height. The perimeter
footing shall contain at least one crawl space entrance not less than sixteen
inches by sixteen inches (16" x 16") and a minimum of four (4) air vents
measuring at least eight inches by sixteen inches (8" x 16").
      2.   All type II manufactured homes shall have twenty four inches (24")
in level clearance from the footing to the base of the structure.
      3.   Except for those offered for sale on a commercial lot, any and all
residential or commercial manufactured homes and travel trailers in the city of
Sayre shall have a permanent, defined driveway consisting of gravel or a sealed
surface. All structures in the city of Sayre as of the effective date hereof
shall have thirty (30) days from the date of installation of the unit, to
comply with this subsection.
      4.   Except for manufactured homes or travel trailers within regular
commercial manufactured home or travel trailer sales lots, each such
freestanding manufactured home or travel trailer offered for sale, must be
clearly marked as such, and shall not be occupied for either living or sleeping
purposes.
      5.   Freestanding manufactured homes or travel trailers located within
regular commercial mobile home or travel trailer sales lots need not be
individually marked for sale.
      6.   A property owner shall not store, nor permit to be stored, more than
one travel trailer on a residential lot. Such travel trailer shall not be
stored in any front or side yard or public utility easement, nor shall such
travel trailer project beyond the front of any building.
   F.   Nonresidential Manufactured Homes Or Travel Trailers:
      1.   Nonresidential manufactured homes or travel trailers shall not be
permitted in the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, unless a temporary permit for
operation is issued by the planning and zoning commission or the city council
through the procedure as set forth above for manufactured homes. Such permit
shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential manufactured home or
trailer, the location of such operation and the termination date of the permit,
and shall only be issued under terms of this code and the adopted zoning
ordinance of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma.
      2.   No permit shall be issued for a use that would violate any local,
state or federal ordinance, law or regulation.
      3.   An annual fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be
charged for each nonresidential manufactured home or travel trailer permit;
provided, that no governmental or nonprofit agency shall be charged such a fee.
      4.   Operation of nonresidential manufactured homes or trailers by
contractors or construction projects for which building permits have been
issued is permitted during the term of such construction project.
      5.   This subsection shall not be construed as permitting or authorizing
the permanent location of any nonresidential manufactured home or trailer
within the corporate limits of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, in conflict with
any adopted zoning ordinance of said city.
   G.   Installation Permit:
      1.   After the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to install or place on any lot, tract or parcel of
land within the corporate limits of the city of Sayre any manufactured home
without first obtaining an installation permit and otherwise complying with the
terms of this section and all applicable laws of the state of Oklahoma. A
separate permit shall be required for each manufactured home installation.
      2.   To obtain an installation permit, the applicant shall first file an
application, in writing, on a form furnished by the city for that purpose. The
application for installation permit shall be signed by the owner of the
manufactured home or his agent, and if the manufactured home is to be placed
outside a park, the owner of the land on which the manufactured home is to be
located. The application shall set forth:
         a.   A description of the manufactured home by dimensions,
manufacturer and serial or identification number.
         b.   The name and address of the person having title to the
manufactured home.
         c.   The date of manufacture of the manufactured home.
         d.   Whether the manufactured home has affixed to it a seal, label or
decal certifying its compliance with standards promulgated for manufactured
homes by the United States department of housing and urban development.
         e.   If manufactured home has affixed to it a seal, label or decal as
described in subsection G2d of this section, the applicant shall certify
whether or not there have been any alterations to the manufactured home since
the seal, label or decal was affixed.
         f.   The proposed location of the manufactured home by legal
description, plot plan, diagram and all other means necessary to advise the
city clerk of the exact placement and the relationship to property lines or
other structures.
         g.   The valuation of the manufactured home.
         h.   Any information necessary to determine compliance with any
applicable regulations pertaining to flood prone areas.
         i.   Any additional information the city clerk finds will aid him/her
in the enforcement of this section or other laws applicable to manufactured
homes.
      3.   The application, plans and specifications and other data filed by an
applicant for permit shall be reviewed by the city clerk and such other city
officials as allowed in this code as may be required to verify compliance with
any applicable laws and ordinances.
      4.   The fee for each manufactured home installation permit shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   H.   Uses Permitted On Review:
      1.   Before any type I or type II manufactured home is placed on any
tract or realty within the corporate limits of the city of Sayre, the owner or
owner/occupant of the structure that is to be placed within the city of Sayre,
shall petition the planning and zoning commission at least thirty (30) days
before moving the structure into Sayre;
      2.   An application shall be filed with the planning commission for
review. The application shall show the location and intended use of the site,
include recent photographs of the site and the proposed manufactured home, and
be accompanied by a list of the names and addresses of all the property owners
and existing land users within a radius of three hundred feet (300') from the
outside perimeter of the property lines of the proposed location, which list
shall be certified as correct either by an abstractor, or upon affidavit by a
person who made an actual search of the records of the county, that the list is
true and correct;
      3.   After the applicant has first given notice prior to the hearing to
all those whose names appear on the list accompanying the application, by first
class mail to be received at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the
planning commission shall hold one or more public hearings thereon, at which
the planning commission may require any other material, information or
testimony it believes pertinent and shall continue the hearing from time to
time, if necessary;
      4.   The planning and zoning commission will then consider the permit
following the public hearing, or at its next regular meeting, or may hold a
special meeting to consider the same. The planning and zoning commission shall
make recommendations to the city council, table the application to be
considered at the next regular scheduled meeting, or may deny a permit request
by a majority vote of the planning and zoning commission. Those petitioning the
planning and zoning commission may appeal a decision of the planning and zoning
commission to the entire city council. Such an appeal should be made no less
than twelve (12) days from the date of the decision of the planning and zoning
commission which shall be noted in the minutes of the planning and zoning
commission. Such appeal is to be filed with the city clerk, who will issue a
receipt or document evidence of the date of filing of the appeal. The city
clerk shall keep minutes for the planning and zoning commission. Permit
decisions will be made on a case by case basis in accordance with this code,
applicable state law and totality of the circumstances. Approval or reversal of
the decision of the planning and zoning commission shall rest within the sound
discretion of the city council. In the event the planning and zoning commission
fails to consider the petition at its next regular meeting, the city council
shall consider the permit request at its next regular meeting or refer the
permit request back to the planning and zoning commission;
      5.   The applicant for the use to be permitted on review for a type II
manufactured home shall be the owner of the real property and the type II
manufactured home to be placed thereon, and said owner shall be the occupant of
the type II manufactured home after its placement upon the real property;
      6.   The application filed for use to be permitted on review for the
purpose of allowing a type II manufactured home shall be accompanied with a
permit fee in such amount as established by resolution of the city council;
      7.   Any type II manufactured home allowed under the use to be permitted
review shall be placed on a lot so that the type II manufactured home shall be
parallel and adjacent to a publicly dedicated street compatible to the
directional placement of surrounding homes; (Ord. 741, 10-16-2007)
      8.   Any type II manufactured home allowed under the use to be permitted
on review shall meet the provisions of the residential code adopted by the
city; (Ord. 741, 10-16-2007; amd. Ord. 08-11-18H, 11-18-2008)
      9.   Each separate time a manufactured home use is contemplated for a
particular site, the applicant must again comply with the provisions of section
10-2-2 of this title. (Ord. 741, 10-16-2007)
   I.   Minimum Regulations For Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Every manufactured house located in either a manufactured home park,
a subdivision or as a freestanding home, shall meet the provisions of the
adopted residential code of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma, except as otherwise
provided in this section, or as may be otherwise provided in other provisions
of this code or to the extent such residential code is preempted by federal
regulations. (Ord. 741, 10-16-2007; amd. Ord. 08-11-18H, 11-18-2008)
      2.   Habitable space in a type I manufactured home shall have a minimum
ceiling height of seven feet (7') over one hundred percent (100%) of the floor
area.
      3.   Any manufactured home not located in a park shall be parked on
property, so that, at the nearest point, it is no less than fifteen feet (15')
from any municipal street open to public travel, fifteen feet (15') from the
rear property line, at least five feet (5') from a side property line, unless
that side property line is adjacent to a municipal street, and at least ten
feet (10') from any other dwelling or commercial structure.
      4.   Any manufactured home not located in a park shall abut upon a gravel
or sealed surface driveway of not less than twenty feet (20') in width, if on
street parking is prohibited, and twenty six feet (26') in width, if on street
parking is permitted. Driveways must have unobstructed access to a public
street or highway.
      5.   Every manufactured home shall be anchored and tied down for safety
purposes. All manufactured homes shall be anchored by a frame tie on each side
of the structure for each ten feet (10') in length of the structure. All ties
shall be attached to concrete pads or ribbons located in footings or foundation
piers. Additional tie down requirements for manufactured homes in flood prone
areas shall also be met.
      6.   Waste from mobile and manufactured homes shall be discharged into a
public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system or private sewer and lagoon
system of such construction and in such manner as approved by the Oklahoma
state health department and in accordance with all applicable ordinances, codes
and regulations of the city of Sayre, Oklahoma.
   J.   Dilapidated Or Damaged Structures:
      1.   Wrecked, damaged, or dilapidated manufactured homes and travel
trailers shall not be kept or stored in the corporate limits of the city of
Sayre. The compliance officer or appointed abatement officer shall determine if
a manufactured home or travel trailer is damaged or dilapidated to a point
which makes said manufactured home or travel trailer unfit for human occupancy
on either a temporary or permanent basis. Whenever such a determination is
made, the manufactured home or travel trailer shall be vacated and removed from
the premises.
   K.   Inspection Of Manufactured Housing:
      1.   The city council shall appoint a building inspector to enforce the
regulations and requirements of this section. The building inspector is hereby
authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition of
manufactured home and travel trailer parks within the city of Sayre, Oklahoma,
in order to perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of
occupants of such parks and of the general public.
      2.   The building inspector shall have the power to inspect the outside
premises of private or public property for the purposes of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this section or of
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   L.   Notices, Hearings And Orders:
      1.   Whenever the building inspector determines violations of pertinent
regulations exist, he shall notify the permittee of such alleged violation.
Such notice shall:
         a.   Be in writing;
         b.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
         c.   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will
effect compliance with provisions of this section and other pertinent
regulations;
         d.   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed ninety (90) days for the
performance of any act it requires; and
         e.   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require;
provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed as properly served upon
owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his last
known address.
      2.   Any person affected by any notice issued under this section or
resulting regulations, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the city council acting as a board of appeals provided, that such person
shall file with the city clerk a written request for such hearing, setting
forth briefly the grounds for such request, within ten (10) days after the day
notice was served. The filing of such request shall stay the notice of
suspension of permits, except in cases of orders issued under subsection L5 of
this section. The hearing shall be held at the next city council meeting for
which the agenda has not been completed, or at a later meeting if so requested
by the petitioner, should the city council determine that sufficient cause for
such delay exists.
      3.   After such hearing, the building inspector shall compile the
findings of the planning and zoning commission as to compliance with this
section and pursuant regulations, and shall issue an order, in writing,
sustaining, modifying and withdrawing the prior notice which shall be served as
provided in this subsection. Upon failure to comply with such order, the permit
of the park shall be revoked.
      4.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city council may seek
relief in the district court and shall have ten (10) days after the decision of
the city council to file an appeal with the district court of Beckham County,
Oklahoma.
      5.   Whenever the building inspector finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, he may, without notice
or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and
requiring that such action be taken as he may deem necessary to meet the
emergency, including the suspension of the permit. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this section, such order shall be effective immediately. Any
person to whom such an order is directed, shall comply therewith immediately,
but upon petition to the city council, shall be afforded a hearing at the next
regular meeting, so long as the same is placed on the agenda. The provisions of
subsections L3 and L4 of this section shall be applicable to such hearing and
the order issued thereafter.
   M.   Supervision; Posting Of Temporary Permit:
      1.   The permittee or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker, shall be
charged at all times with keeping the park, its facilities and equipment in a
clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be
answerable, with the permittee, for the violation of any provision of this
chapter to which the licensee or permittee is subject.
      2.   The permit shall be conspicuously posted in the office of, or on the
premises of, the park at all times. (Ord. 741, 10-16-2007)
CHAPTER 13
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES OF LAND
SECTION:
10-13-1: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
10-13-2: Alteration Or Enlargement Of Buildings And Structures
10-13-3: Outdoor Advertising Signs And Structures
10-13-4: Building Vacancy
10-13-5: Change In Use
10-13-6: Nonconforming Uses Of Land
10-13-1: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
A nonconforming building or structure existing at the time of adoption of this
title may be continued, maintained and repaired, except as otherwise provided
in this chapter. (1989 Code § 12-380)
10-13-2: ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
A nonconforming building or structure shall not be added to or enlarged in any
manner unless the building or structure, including additions and enlargements,
is made to conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is
located; provided, however, that if a building or structure is conforming as to
use, but nonconforming as to yards or height or off-street parking space, the
building or structure may be enlarged or added to; provided, that the
enlargement or addition complies with the yard and height and off-street
parking requirements of the district in which the building or structure is
located. No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in whole or in
part to another location on the lot unless every portion of the building or
structure is made to conform to all of the regulations of the district in which
it is located. (1989 Code § 12-381)
10-13-3: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS AND STRUCTURES:
Any advertising sign, billboard, commercial advertising structure, or statuary,
which is lawfully existing and maintained at the time this title became
effective, which does not conform with the provisions hereof, shall not be
structurally altered, and all such nonconforming advertising signs, billboards,
commercial advertising structures and statuary, and their supporting members,
shall be completely removed from the premises not later than three (3) years
from the effective date of this title. (1989 Code § 12-382)
10-13-4: BUILDING VACANCY:
A building or structure or portion thereof, which is nonconforming as to use,
which is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains unoccupied for a continuous
period of one year shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use which
conforms to the use regulations of the district in which it is located. (1989
Code § 12-383)
10-13-5: CHANGE IN USE:
   A.   A nonconforming use of a conforming building or structure shall not be
expanded or extended into any other portion of such conforming building or
structure or changed except to a conforming use. If such a nonconforming use,
or a portion thereof, is discontinued or changed to a conforming use, any
future use of such building, structure or portion thereof shall be in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which such building or
structure is located. A vacant or partially vacant nonconforming building or
structure may be occupied by a use for which the building or structure was
designed or intended if occupied within a period of one year after the
effective date of this title, but otherwise it shall be used in conformity with
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   B.   The use of a nonconforming building or structure may be changed to a
use of the same or a more restricted district classification; but where the use
of nonconforming building or structure is changed to a use of more restricted
district classification it thereafter shall not be changed to a use of a less
restricted district classification; provided, however, that a building or
structure that is nonconforming as to use at the time of adoption of this
title, or at any time thereafter, shall not be changed to a wholesale or retail
liquor store unless such change in use conforms to the provisions of the
district in which it is located. (1989 Code § 12-384)
10-13-6: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND:
A nonconforming use of land, where the aggregate value of all permanent
buildings or structures is less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), existing
at the time of adoption of this chapter, may be continued for a period of not
more than three (3) years therefrom; provided, that:
   A.   The nonconforming use may not be extended or expanded, nor shall it
occupy more area than was in use on the effective date of this title; or
   B.   If the nonconforming use or any portion thereof is discontinued for a
period of six (6) months, or changed, any future use of such land, or change in
use, shall be in conformity with the provisions of the district in which the
land is located. (1989 Code § 12-385)
CHAPTER 14
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-14A-1: Purpose
10-14A-2: Authority
10-14A-3: Application To Types Of Subdividing
10-14A-4: Definitions
10-14A-5: Procedure For Subdivision, Generally
10-14A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The subdivision of land is the first step in the process of urban
development. The arrangement of land parcels in the community for residential,
commercial and industrial uses and for streets, alleys, schools, parks and
other public purposes, will determine to a large degree the conditions of
health, safety, economy and amenity that prevail in the urban area. The quality
of these conditions is of public interest. These regulations and standards for
the subdivision and improvement of land for urban use are to make provision for
adequate light, air, open spaces, drainage, transportation, public utilities
and other needs, to ensure the development and maintenance of a healthy,
attractive and efficient community that provides for the conservation and
protection of its human and natural resources.
   B.   These regulations are designed, intended and should be administered in
a manner to:
      1.   Implement the general plan;
      2.   Provide neighborhood conservation and prevent the development of
slums and blight;
      3.   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of land to
the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts;
      4.   Provide that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the
tract of land being developed be borne by the owners or developers of the
tract, and that the cost of improvements which primarily benefit the whole
community to be borne by the community;
      5.   Provide the best possible design for the tract;
      6.   Reconcile any differences of interest; and
      7.   Establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivision. (1989
Code § 12-401)
10-14A-2: AUTHORITY:
These subdivision regulations and minimum standards for land development are
adopted by ordinance passed by the city council under the authority granted by
11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 45-101 through 45-104. (1989 Code § 12-402)
10-14A-3: APPLICATION TO TYPES OF SUBDIVIDING:
These regulations and development standards shall apply to the following forms
of land subdivision:
   A.   The division of land into two (2) or more tracts, lots, sites or
parcels, any part of which, when subdivided, shall contain less than ten (10)
acres in area;
   B.   The division of land, previously subdivided or platted into tracts,
lots, sites or parcels, of less than ten (10) acres in area;
   C.   The dedication, vacation or reservation of any public or private
easement through any tract of land regardless of the area involved, including
those for use by public and private utility companies; or
   D.   The dedication or vacation of any street or alley through any tract of
land regardless of the area involved. (1989 Code § 12-403)
10-14A-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms used herein are defined as
follows:
ALLEY: A minor right of way dedicated to public use which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street and which may be used for public utility purposes.
BLOCK: A parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes, which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, railroad rights of way, public
walks, parks or green strips, rural land or drainage channels, or a combination
thereof.
BUILDING LINE OR SETBACK LINE: A line or lines designating the area outside of
which buildings may not be erected.
CITY: The city of Sayre, Oklahoma.
CITY COUNCIL: Sayre city council.
EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
GENERAL PLAN: The comprehensive development plan for the city which has been
officially adopted to provide long-range development policies for the area
subject to urbanization in the foreseeable future and which includes, among
other things, the plan for land use, land subdivision, circulation and
community facilities.
LOT: A subdivision of a block or other parcel intended as a unit for the
transfer of ownership or for development.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of and abutting on two (2) or
more streets.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two (2) nonintersecting sides abutting on two (2) or more
streets.
LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE: A double frontage lot which is to be developed with the
rear yard abutting a major street and with the primary means of ingress and
egress provided on a minor street.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Sayre planning commission.
PLAT, FINAL: A map of land subdivision prepared in a form suitable for filing
of record with necessary affidavits, dedications and acceptances, and with
complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks, streets
and alleys, public areas and other dimensions of land.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A map of a proposed land subdivision showing the character
and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
STREET: Any public or private right of way which affords the primary means of
access to abutting property.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A minor street which collects traffic from other minor
streets and serves as the most direct route to a major street or a community
facility.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one end open to vehicular traffic and
having one closed end terminated by a turnaround.
STREET, FRONTAGE OR SERVICE: A minor street auxiliary to and located on the
side of a major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent areas
and for control of access.
STREET, MAJOR: An arterial street which is designated on the major street plan
or expressway plan.
STREET, MINOR: A street whose primary purpose is to provide access to adjacent
properties and which is designed so that its use by arterial traffic will be
discouraged.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or entity, acting as a
unit, subdividing or proposing to subdivide land as herein defined.
SUBDIVISION: The division or redivision of land into two (2) or more lots,
tracts, sites or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for
development, the dedication or vacation of a public or private right of way or
easement. (1989 Code § 12-404)
10-14A-5: PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION, GENERALLY:
   A.   Plat Required: For all cases of subdividing within the scope of these
regulations, a plat of land in question shall be drawn and submitted to the
planning commission and city council for their approval or disapproval, as
provided hereafter in these regulations.
   B.   Approval, Recording Required: No plat or other land subdivision
instrument shall be filed in the office of the county clerk until it shall have
been approved by the planning commission and by the city council as hereinafter
set forth. All final plats shall be filed within two (2) years of date of
approval by the planning commission, and no lots shall be sold from any plat
until recorded. Failure to record the plat within two (2) years of the date of
planning commission or city council approval, whichever is the later, shall
void all approvals thereto.
   C.   Plat Requirements: Each plat submitted for preliminary or final
approval shall be placed on the agenda of the planning commission only after
fulfilling the appropriate requirements of these regulations. However, a plat
not meeting all of the requirements may be submitted providing the subdivider
presents with the plat a written request for specific exceptions and explains
the reasons therefor. (1989 Code § 12-405)
   D.   Fee: To defray partially the cost of notification and administration
procedures, there shall be paid to the city clerk at the time of submission of
the preliminary plat a fee in such amount as established by resolution of the
city council. Where only a portion of an approved preliminary plat is submitted
for final approval, a final plat of the remaining area may be submitted at any
time within five (5) years of the date of preliminary approval without payment
of an additional filing fee by the subdivider, if the final plat for the
additional area conforms substantially with the approved preliminary plat.
(1989 Code § 12-405; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Exemptions: Plats containing four (4) lots or fewer may be exempted
from the provisions of all or part of procedural provisions contained in this
section and article 14C of this chapter upon written approval of the planning
commission. (1989 Code § 12-405)
ARTICLE B.  ADMINISTRATION, AMENDMENT
SECTION:
10-14B-1: Variations, Exceptions
10-14B-2: Administration And Amendment
10-14B-3: Validity
10-14B-4: Conflicting Provisions
10-14B-5: Violation, Penalty
10-14B-1: VARIATIONS, EXCEPTIONS:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in these regulations would result in
substantial hardship or inequity, the planning commission may vary or modify,
except as otherwise indicated, such requirements of design, but not of
procedure or improvements, so that the subdivider may develop his property in a
reasonable manner, but so, at the same time, the public welfare and interests
of the city are protected and the general intent and spirit of these
regulations are preserved. Such modifications may be granted upon written
request of the subdivider stating the reasons for each modification and may be
waived by three-fourths (3/4) vote of the regular membership of the planning
commission. (1989 Code § 12-450)
10-14B-2: ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENT:
The city council may, from time to time, adopt, amend and make public rules and
regulations for the administration of these regulations to the end that the
public be informed and that approval of plats be expedited. These regulations
may be enlarged or amended by the city council after public hearing, due notice
of which shall be given as required by law. (1989 Code § 12-451)
10-14B-3: VALIDITY:
If any section, clause, paragraph, provision or portion of these regulations
shall be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect any other section, clause,
paragraph, provision or portion of these regulations. (1989 Code § 12-452)
10-14B-4: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(1989 Code § 12-453)
10-14B-5: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
   A.   Compliance Required: No building permit shall be issued for any new
structure or change, improvement or alteration of any existing structure on any
tract of land which does not comply with all of the provisions of these
regulations.
   B.   Misdemeanor: A violation of these regulations shall be deemed a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation
who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of these
regulations shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. (1989 Code § 12-454)
ARTICLE C.  PLAT PREPARATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE
SECTION:
10-14C-1: Preliminary Plat
10-14C-2: Final Plat
10-14C-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Submission; Copies: The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat for
the submission to the planning commission. Four (4) copies of the preliminary
plat shall be submitted to the office of the city clerk not less than seven (7)
days prior to the meeting at which it is to be considered.
   B.   Engineer's Statement: The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a
statement signed by the registered engineer preparing the plat certifying that
he has, to the best of his ability, designed the subdivision in accordance with
the general plan, with which he is completely familiar, and in accordance with
the ordinances and regulations governing the subdivision of land, except where
an exception is requested in writing and the reasons for which are clearly
stated.
   C.   Scale; Information: The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a scale of
one hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100') and shall contain or be accompanied by
the following information:
      1.   The scale, north point and date;
      2.   The proposed name of the subdivision;
      3.   The name and address of the owner of record, the subdivider and of
the registered engineer preparing the plat;
      4.   A key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision
referenced to existing or proposed major streets and to government section
lines, and including the boundaries and number of acres of the drainage area of
which the proposed subdivision is a part;
      5.   The names, with location of intersecting boundary lines, of
adjoining subdivisions, and the location of city limits, if falling within or
immediately adjoining the tract;
      6.   The land contours with vertical intervals not greater than two feet
(2') referenced to a United States geological survey or coast and geodetic
survey benchmark or monument;
      7.   The location of existing buildings, water, watercourses, and the
location of dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and/or are
immediately adjacent to the subdivision; provided however, that actual measured
distances shall not be required;
      8.   The length of the boundaries of the tract, measured to the nearest
foot, and the proposed location and width of streets, alleys, easements and
setback lines and the approximate lot dimensions;
      9.   The location, approximate size and type of sanitary and storm
sewers, water mains, culverts, power and natural gas lines and other surface
and subsurface structures and pipe lines existing within or immediately
adjacent to the proposed subdivision; and the location, layout, type and
proposed size of the following structures and utilities:
         a.   Water mains;
         b.   Sanitary sewer mains, submains and laterals;
         c.   Storm sewers, culverts and drainage structures; or
         d.   Street improvements;
      10.   The location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage
structures, and the proposed method of disposing of all runoff from the
proposed subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage easements
relating thereto, whether they are located within or outside of the proposed
plat; and
      11.   The classification of every street within or adjacent to the
subdivision in accordance with the intended use of the street based on the
proposed design. This shall be done by placing the appropriate term, "primary
thoroughfare", "secondary thoroughfare", "collector" or "minor street" in
parenthesis, directly on each street.
   D.   Decision Of Planning Commission: The planning commission shall approve,
approve conditionally, or disapprove the plat within sixty (60) days of the
date of its submission by the applicant. If the preliminary plat is disapproved
or approved conditionally, the reasons for such action shall be stated in
writing, a copy of which shall be signed by the planning commission chairman
and shall be attached to one copy of the plat and transmitted to the
subdivider. Unless stipulation for additional time is agreed to by the
subdivider, if no action be taken by the planning commission at the end of
sixty (60) days after submission, the plat shall be deemed to have been
approved. The reasons for disapproval or conditional approval shall refer
specifically to those parts of the general plan or specific regulations with
which the plat does not conform. On conditionally approving a plat, the
planning commission may require submission of a revised preliminary plat. If
the plat conforms to all of the standards, or after the applicant and planning
commission agree upon any revision which shall be filed with the planning
commission on a revised copy, the subdivider may proceed with the laying out of
streets and roads, the preparation of utility plans and with the preparation of
a final plat. (1989 Code § 12-440)
10-14C-2: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Submission: A final plat, neatly drawn in ink on tracing cloth, and
three (3) dark-line prints thereof, shall be submitted to the office of the
city clerk not less than five (5) days before the planning commission meeting
at which it is to be considered for final approval. At the same time, there
shall be submitted two (2) sets of the proposed plans and specifications for
all improvements and the proposed restrictions in final form; provided,
however, the final plat may be approved subject to later submission of final
improvement plans and specifications.
   B.   Time Of Submission: The final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be
submitted to the planning commission and city council for final approval within
one year of the date on which the preliminary plat was approved. If not
submitted for final approval within such time, the preliminary plat shall be
considered as having been disapproved unless the planning commission agrees to
an extension of time. The final plat shall be filed in the office of the county
clerk within two (2) years after approval by the city council and planning
commission, or if not filed within such time, the approval shall be considered
as having been voided.
   C.   Drafting: The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of one hundred feet
to the inch (1" = 100') from an accurate survey and on sheets whose dimensions
are twenty one inches by thirty three and one-half inches (21" x 331/2")
between border lines. On the first sheet of every plat there shall be a key map
showing the location of the subdivision referenced to government survey section
lines and major streets. If more than two (2) sheets are required for the plat,
the key map shall show the number of the sheet for each area. A border of one-
half inch (1/2") surrounding the sheet shall be left blank at the top, bottom
and right-hand side, and a margin of two inches (2") at the left side for
binding purposes.
   D.   Content: The final plat shall show:
      1.   The location and description of all section corners and permanent
survey monuments in or near the tract, to at least one of which the subdivision
shall be referenced;
      2.   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof, and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees and minutes, as hereafter specified;
      3.   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings, and the location of boundary lines of adjoining lands,
with adjacent subdivisions identified by official names. Material which is not
a part of the subdivision shall be shown in dashed or dotted lines;
      4.   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles;
      5.   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the length and/or direction
of an alley is not readily discernible from data given for lot and block lines,
the length and/or bearings shall be given;
      6.   The widths, and names where appropriate, of all proposed streets and
alleys, and of all adjacent streets, alleys and easements which shall be
properly located;
      7.   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles, except that where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the angle or bearing value may be omitted;
      8.   The outline of any property which is offered for dedication to
public use fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings, with the area marked
"public";
      9.   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision
and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with areas to be
excluded from platting marked "reserved" or "not a part";
      10.   The location of all building lines, setback lines and easements for
public services or utilities with dimensions showing their locations;
      11.   The radii, arcs, points of tangency, points of intersection and
central angles for curvilinear streets and radii for all property returns;
      12.   The proper acknowledgements of owners and the consent by the
mortgagee to plat restrictions;
      13.   The following, which shall be made and shown on the cloth tracing:
         a.   Owner's certificate and dedication, signed;
         b.   Engineer's certificate of survey, signed and his seal;
         c.   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to
the public;
         d.   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive
covenants, filed in the office of the county clerk which directly affect the
land being subdivided;
         e.   Certificate of planning commission approval;
         f.   Certificate of city council acceptance of ways, easements and
public land dedications;
         g.   Treasurer's certificate; and
         h.   Certificate of city clerk related to special assessments; and
      14.   A title which shall include:
         a.   Name of the subdivision;
         b.   Name of the city, county and state; and
         c.   Location and description of the subdivision referenced to
section, range and township.
   E.   Planning Commission Action: The planning commission shall act upon the
final plat within forty five (45) days after it has been submitted for final
approval. This approval and the date thereof shall be shown on the plat over
the signature of the planning commission chairman or secretary member. Unless
stipulation for additional time is agreed to by the subdivider and if no action
is taken by the planning commission at the end of forty five (45) days after
submission, the plat shall be deemed approved. A certification by the city
clerk as to date of submission of plat for final approval and failure of
planning commission to act thereon within such time shall be sufficient in lieu
of written endorsement of approval. If the final plat is disapproved, grounds
for this refusal shall be stated in writing, a copy of which shall be
transmitted with the tracing and prints to the applicant. The reasons for
disapproval shall refer specifically to those parts of the general plan or
ordinance or regulation with which the plat does not comply.
   F.   City Council Action: Before recording the final plat, it shall be
submitted to the city council for approval and for acceptance of public ways
and service and utility easements and land dedicated to public use. This
approval of the plat shall be shown over the signature of the mayor and
attested to by the city clerk or his deputy. The disapproval of any plat or
plan by the city council shall be deemed a refusal of the proposed dedication
shown thereon.
   G.   Recording Of Plat: After final approval of the plat and the affixing of
all required signatures on the original tracing, the subdivider shall provide
the city clerk with two (2) dark-line prints thereof, and one contact
reproducible cloth tracing. The applicant shall file the original tracing, one
dark-line print on cloth and one contact reproducible cloth tracing or film
with the county clerk. (1989 Code § 12-441)
ARTICLE D.  DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-14D-1: Urban Design Principles
10-14D-2: Streets
10-14D-3: Alleys
10-14D-4: Easements
10-14D-5: Public Areas And Open Spaces
10-14D-6: Blocks
10-14D-7: Lots
10-14D-8: Building Lines
10-14D-9: Neighborhood Unit Development
10-14D-1: URBAN DESIGN PRINCIPLES:
The quality of design of the urban area is dependent on the quality of design
of the individual subdivisions that compose it. Good community design requires
the coordination of the efforts of each subdivider and developer of land within
the urban area. Therefore, the design of each subdivision shall be prepared in
accordance with the principles established by the general plan for land use,
circulation, community facilities and public utility services and in accordance
with the following general principles:
   A.   Intent: It is intended that the Sayre urban area should be designed as
a group of integrated residential neighborhoods and appropriate commercial,
industrial and public facilities. The neighborhood, as a planning unit, is
intended as an area principally for residential use, and of a size that can be
served by one elementary school. Space for religious, recreational, educational
and shopping facilities to serve the residents of the neighborhood should be
provided and designed as an integral part of each neighborhood;
   B.   Size of Lots And Blocks: The size of lots and blocks and other areas
for residential, commercial, industrial and public uses should be designed to
provide adequate light, air, open space, landscaping and off-street parking and
loading facilities;
   C.   Street System Design: The arrangements of lots and blocks and the
street system should be designed to make the most advantageous use of
topography and natural physical features. Tree masses and large individual
trees should be preserved. The system of sidewalks and roadways and the lot
layout should be designed to take advantage of the visual qualities of the
area;
   D.   Circulation: Circulation within the urban area shall be provided in
accordance with the following design criteria:
      1.   Each subdivision shall provide for the continuation of all arterial
streets and highways as shown on the major street plan. Arterial streets should
be located on the perimeter of residential neighborhood;
      2.   Minor streets should be designed to provide access to each parcel of
land within the residential neighborhood and within industrial areas, and in a
manner that will discourage use by through traffic. They should be planned so
that future urban expansion will require the conversion of minor streets to
arterial routes;
      3.   Collector streets should be designed to provide a direct route from
other minor streets to the major street system;
      4.   Ingress and egress to residential properties should be provided only
on minor streets; and
      5.   Pedestrianways should be separated from roadways used by vehicular
traffic. Sidewalks should be designed to provide all residential building sites
with direct access to all neighborhood facilities, including the elementary
school, parks and playgrounds, churches and shopping centers; and
   E.   Standards: Minimum standards for development are contained in the
zoning ordinance, the building code and in these regulations. However, the
general plan expresses policies which are intended to achieve optimum quality
of development in the urban area. If only the minimum standards are followed,
as expressed by the various ordinances regulating land development, a
standardization of development will occur. This will produce a monotonous urban
setting. Subdivision design should be of a quality to carry out the purpose and
spirit of the policies expressed in the general plan and in these regulations
rather than be limited to the minimum standards required herein. (1989 Code §
12-410)
10-14D-2: STREETS:
The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets
shall conform to all of the elements of the general plan and shall be designed
in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Major Streets: Major streets shall be planned to conform with the major
street plan;
   B.   Service Streets: Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing
or proposed major street, the planning commission may require service streets,
reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation
along the rear property line, deep lots, or such other treatment as may be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation of arterial and local traffic;
   C.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be laid out so that their use by
arterial traffic will be discouraged;
   D.   Parallel To Right Of Way: Where a subdivision borders on or contains a
railroad right of way or limited access highway right of way, the planning
commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of
such right of way at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the
intervening land. Such distances also shall be determined with due regard for
the requirements of approach grades and future grade separation structures;
   E.   Reserve Strips: Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited except where their control is placed in the city under conditions
approved by the planning commission;
   F.   Plan Of Proposed Future System: Where the plat to be submitted includes
only part of the tract owned or intended for development by the subdivider, a
tentative plan of a proposed future tract system for the unsubdivided portion
may be required by the subdivider;
   G.   Large Lots Or Parcels: When a tract is subdivided into larger than
normal building lots or parcels, such lots or parcels shall be arranged to
permit the logical location and opening of future streets and appropriate
resubdivision, with provision for adequate utility easement;
   H.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with center line offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') should be avoided;
   I.   Widths: Street rights of way widths shall be in accordance with the
major street plan and, where not designated therein, shall be not be less than
the following:
Major streets:
Major streets:
  Primary   120 feet
  Secondary 100 feet
Minor streets:
  Collector 60 feet
  Minor     50 feet
  Cul-de-sac50 feet
 
   J.   Paved Width; Lane Width: The paved width of all streets shall be
adequate to serve the existing and future estimated traffic load for the
facility. Lane widths for all streets shall be as follows:
      1.   All major streets shall have lanes for traffic movement of not less
than eleven feet (11') or more than twelve feet (12') in width, and lanes for
parallel parking or emergency stopping of not less than ten feet (10') in
width; and (1989 Code § 12-411)
      2.   All minor streets shall have lanes for traffic movement of not less
than ten feet (10') or more than twelve feet (12') in width and a lane for
parallel parking of not less than eight feet (8') in width. (1989 Code § 12-
411; amd. 2002 Code)
   K.   Cul-De-Sacs: A cul-de-sac should not exceed five hundred feet (500') in
length, measured from the entrance to the center of the turnaround, and if more
than one hundred fifty feet (150') in length shall be provided with a
turnaround having a radius of not less than fifty feet (50') at the property
line and not less than forty feet (40') at the curb line. There shall be
provided in the center of the turnaround an unpaved island, improved with grass
and landscaping that will not interfere with sight distance, which has a radius
of not less than twelve feet (12'), nor more than sixteen feet (16');
   L.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; and provided, that the planning commission
finds it will be practical to obtain the dedication of the other half of the
street easement when the adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever a half
street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street
shall be platted within such tract;
   M.   Arrangement: The arrangement of streets shall be such as to cause no
hardship in the subdividing of adjacent properties. The planning commission may
require the dedication of street rights of way to facilitate the development of
adjoining properties; and
   N.   Names: No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to
the approval of the planning commission. (1989 Code § 12-411)
10-14D-3: ALLEYS:
   A.   Permitted: Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial
districts, except that the planning commission may waive this requirement where
other definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-
street loading, unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses
proposed.
   B.   Width: Alleys serving commercial and industrial areas shall be not less
than thirty feet (30') in width.
   C.   Residential Areas: Alleys are not required for residential areas, but
when provided shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in width.
   D.   Intersections, Alignment Changes: Alley intersections and sharp changes
in alignment should be avoided, but where necessary, corners shall be cut off
sufficiently to permit safe vehicular movement.
   E.   Dead-End Alleys: Dead-end alleys should be avoided, but if necessary,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead-end, as
determined by the planning commission. (1989 Code § 12-412)
10-14D-4: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Width: Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than ten feet
(10') wide shall be provided along each rear lot line, and along side lot lines
where necessary, for use by public and private facilities. The planning
commission may require aerial easements and easements of greater width for the
extension of main storm and sanitary sewers and other utilities where it is
deemed necessary.
   B.   Drainage: Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage
channel or stream which drains one hundred sixty (160) acres or more of land,
there shall be provided a right of way for drainage and public parks and public
utility purposes, adequate to contain all of the runoff from a 50-year maximum
flood. The right of way shall include all of the land within the subdivision
that has an elevation below the 50-year maximum flood elevation which shall be
calculated in accordance with, and shall be adequate to provide for, the
drainage requirements of the ordinances and regulations relating thereto. (1989
Code § 12-413)
10-14D-5: PUBLIC AREAS AND OPEN SPACES:
Public parks, playgrounds, school sites and other public areas and open spaces
shall be provided in accordance with the requirements and standards set forth
in the general plan and in the ordinances relating thereto. (1989 Code § 12-
414)
10-14D-6: BLOCKS:
   A.   Considerations: The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be
determined with due regard for the following:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      2.   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic; and
      4.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   B.   Length: Blocks for residential use shall not be longer than one
thousand eight hundred feet (1,800'), measured along the center line of the
block. When a block exceeds six hundred feet (600') in length, the planning
commission may require a dedicated easement not less than fifteen feet (15') in
width and a paved crosswalk not less than four feet (4') in width to provide
pedestrian access across the block.
   C.   Width: Blocks used for residential purposes should be of sufficient
width to allow for two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended
for business and industrial use should be of a width suitable for the intended
use, with due allowance for off-street parking and loading facilities. (1989
Code § 12-415)
10-14D-7: LOTS:
   A.   Width: Residential lots shall be not less than fifty feet (50') in
width at the front building line and shall abut a street a distance of not less
than thirty five feet (35'); except a corner lot shall be not less than sixty
feet (60') in width at the front building line.
   B.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines should be approximately at right angles
or radial to street lines.
   C.   Depth: The depth of residential lots should be not less than one
hundred twenty feet (120').
   D.   Area: The area of residential lots shall not be less than six thousand
(6,000) square feet.
   E.   Individual Sewage Disposal; Lot Area: In residential subdivisions where
septic tank or individual sewage disposal devices are to be installed, the area
of the lot shall be not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and the
width of the lot at the front building line shall be not less than one hundred
feet (100').
   F.   Commercial And Industrial Uses: Lots are not required for subdivisions
for commercial and industrial use, but when provided should be of appropriate
size and arrangement to provide for adequate off-street parking and loading
facilities based on the intended use.
   G.   Double Frontage, Frontage Lots: Double frontage and frontage lots
should be avoided except where they are needed to provide for the separation of
development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of
topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least twenty feet
(20') shall be provided where screening is required. There shall be no right of
access across a planting screen easement. (1989 Code § 12-416)
10-14D-8: BUILDING LINES:
Building lines shall be provided for all residential subdivisions as follows:
   A.   Front: A front building line shall be located not less than twenty five
feet (25') back of the street right-of-way line;
   B.   Side Yard: A side yard building line on the side of a corner lot
abutting the street shall be located not less than fifteen feet (15') back with
another corner lot, and not less than twenty feet (20') back of the street
right-of-way line in every other case; and
   C.   Side Yard Abutting Mid-Block Crosswalk: A side yard building line shall
be provided not less than ten feet (10') back of a crosswalk right-of-way line
on the side of a lot abutting a mid- block crosswalk. (1989 Code § 12-417)
10-14D-9: NEIGHBORHOOD UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
Whenever a subdivision is developed as a neighborhood unit, wherein adequate
park or playground area is provided, through traffic is cared for adequately
and the majority of the minor streets are of the cul-de-sac or loop type, the
planning commission may vary the requirements of this article in order to allow
the subdivider more freedom in the arrangement of streets and lots, but at the
same time protect the convenience, health, safety and welfare of the probable
future residents of the subdivision, as well as the character of the entire
community. However, in no case shall the lot area be less than six thousand
(6,000) square feet for detached single-family dwellings. (1989 Code § 12-418)
ARTICLE E.  IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-14E-1: General Provisions
10-14E-2: Plan Preparation
10-14E-3: Surety Bond
10-14E-4: Permanent Markers
10-14E-5: Street Improvements
10-14E-6: Sidewalks
10-14E-7: Water Lines And Fire Hydrants
10-14E-8: Sanitary Sewers
10-14E-9: Storm Sewers And Drainage
10-14E-10: Maintenance And Supervision
10-14E-11: Connection With City Sewer System
10-14E-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
All improvements shall be designed and installed in accordance with all of the
elements of the general plan and shall meet the minimum standards established
by the ordinances and regulations relating thereto. (1989 Code § 12-420)
10-14E-2: PLAN PREPARATION:
Plans for the improvements herein required shall be prepared by the engineering
department of the city or by a qualified engineer, registered in the state. Two
(2) sets of prints of the proposed plans and specifications for all
improvements shall be filed with the city clerk at the time of submission of
the final plat. One set of as-built plans and specifications, certified and
signed by an engineer registered in the state, shall be filed with the city
clerk prior to the acceptance by the city council of any improvement installed
by the subdivider. (1989 Code § 12-421)
10-14E-3: SURETY BOND:
In lieu of completion of the improvements herein required, the city council may
require the subdivider to file a surety bond with the city clerk to ensure the
actual construction of such improvements according to the plans and
specifications approved by the planning commission within a period of time not
to exceed two (2) years from the date of approval of the final plat. Such bond
shall be in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of
the improvement as determined by the planning commission and with surety and
conditions satisfactory to the city council. In any case, where the city
council does not require a bond for the improvements required herein, no
building shall be permitted on any lot or in any area in a subdivision where
the proposed construction will produce runoff or require utility services that
affect other areas or lots located within or outside the subdivision unless a
bond, in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost, is
posted for the portion of the drainage or utility improvements that will
protect the affected area. (1989 Code § 12-422)
10-14E-4: PERMANENT MARKERS:
Each lot and block corner shall be marked with iron pipes or pins not less than
one-half inch (1/2") in diameter and not less than eighteen inches (18") long
at least one inch (1") below finished grade; and each subdivision corner shall
be marked with a permanent concrete marker capped with a noncorrosive metal
plate, set not less than one inch (1") below the finished grade. (1989 Code §
12-243; amd. 2002 Code)
10-14E-5: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
The subdivider of any subdivision designed to be used for residential,
commercial, industrial or other purposes, shall lay out, grade and otherwise
improve all streets that are designated on the approved plat or that directly
serve the subdivision in accordance with the specifications of the city and in
accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Intersection With State, Federal Highway: The design of an improvement
of an intersection of any new street with an existing state or federal highway
shall be in accordance with the specifications of the Oklahoma state highway
department, but in no case shall the standard be less than the applicable
specifications of the city;
   B.   Cost Exceeds Service To Occupants: Whenever a subdivision contains a
major street that requires a street facility that is more costly than is
required to serve the future occupants of the subdivision, the subdivider shall
be required to pay only the portion of the cost of an improvement required to
serve only the subdivisions, as determined by the planning commission; and
   C.   Driveway Construction: All driveways which connect with public streets
shall be constructed in accordance with standard design of driveway entrances
for Oklahoma highways, revised, September 1960, and subsequent amendments
thereto, as prepared by the Oklahoma state highway department. (1989 Code § 12-
424)
10-14E-6: SIDEWALKS:
A plan for a system of sidewalks and walkways shall be prepared that will
provide every lot within a residential or commercial subdivision, or portion
thereof, with a direct sidewalk connection with all of the community facilities
and commercial enterprises located within or adjacent to the subdivision, and
in a manner that will provide convenient pedestrian circulation throughout the
neighborhood or area in which the subdivision is located. The planning
commission may require the construction of sidewalks to connect with existing
or future proposed sidewalks in areas adjacent to the subdivision where such
sidewalks are needed for pedestrian circulation. Sidewalks and walkways shall
be constructed in the subdivision in accordance with the sidewalks system plan
approved by the planning commission, and in accordance with the specifications
governing sidewalk and walkway construction. (1989 Code § 12-425)
10-14E-7: WATER LINES AND FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Required; Standards: The subdivider shall install water lines and fire
hydrants, and installation shall be in accordance with the specifications
approved by the mayor and city council and in accordance with the minimum
standards of the national board of fire underwriters.
   B.   Cost Determination: The cost for connection to the city water supply
shall be determined as follows:
      1.   If an existing water main abuts the property, the subdivider shall
pay to the city an amount equal to the number of acres in his development
multiplied by the prevailing cost per mile of installation of water mains, as
determined by the city manager, divided by six hundred forty (640); and
      2.   If the city water main does not abut the property, the owner shall
extend the water main to his property and shall not be charged for the
connection. In such event, the city shall return to the developer any amounts
paid for subsequent connections to the line so installed for a period of
fifteen (15) years or until the developer has been repaid eighty percent (80%)
of the cost of the installation of the line from the city supply to his near
property line, whichever shall sooner occur.
   C.   Private Water Wells: If, in the opinion of the mayor and city council,
the subdivision can be adequately served by private water wells, then the
governing body may waive the requirement of connection to the municipal water
supply. (1989 Code § 12-426)
10-14E-8: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Required; Specifications: The subdivider shall install sanitary sewers
whenever a sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible as determined by the
planning commission. Sanitary sewers shall be installed in accordance with the
specifications governing sanitary sewer construction.
   B.   Alternative Systems: Whenever a sanitary sewer is not reasonably
accessible, septic tanks or other unit disposal systems may be used in
accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   A lot for residential use on which a unit disposal system is located
shall be not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet in area;
      2.   No portion of any unit disposal system shall be located closer than
twenty feet (20') to the lot line of the lot on which the system is located;
and
      3.   All unit disposal systems shall comply with the requirements of the
state and county health departments.
   C.   Five Acres Or More: When subdivisions contain five (5) acres or more,
the planning commission may require the subdivider to install sanitary sewers,
and a disposal system that is adequate to serve all of the lots within the
subdivision. (1989 Code § 12-427)
10-14E-9: STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE:
Storm sewers and drainage shall be provided in accordance with the
specifications contained in the ordinances and regulations relating thereto.
(1989 Code § 12-428)
10-14E-10: MAINTENANCE AND SUPERVISION:
Where the subdivision contains sewers, sewage treatment plants, water supply
systems, or other physical facilities necessary or desirable for the welfare of
the area, or that are of common use or benefit which are not or cannot be
satisfactorily maintained by an existing public agency, provision shall be made
which is acceptable to the agency having jurisdiction over the location and
maintenance of such facilities for the proper and continuous operation,
maintenance and supervision of such facilities. (1989 Code § 12-429)
10-14E-11: CONNECTION WITH CITY SEWER SYSTEM:
   A.   Applicability; Easements: The provisions of this section shall apply to
those developers who connect their developments to the sewer system. Developers
who do connect their development to the city sewer system shall obtain all
necessary easements dedicated to the public as are required and to provide
adequate sewer laterals to each lot. The sewer system shall be approved by the
city engineer and the state department of health. The city may assist the
developer in obtaining easements.
   B.   Trunk Line Defined: For the purpose of this section, a "trunk line" is
defined as any sewer line which has as its main purpose the collection of
sewerage from lateral lines which serve lots, and the routing of the collected
sewerage to the city's treatment plant. No line smaller than six inch (6")
diameter shall be considered a trunk line.
   C.   Extension Of Line: Each developer shall extend trunk lines within his
development to the upstream junction (or junctions) of the development's
boundary with the drainage basin.
   D.   Capacity; Depth: The developer shall construct the required trunk lines
with adequate capacity and depth as to permit future extensions to serve the
entire drainage basin upstream from the point of consideration. This excess
capacity shall include larger size trunk lines, extra depth and, if necessary,
lift stations and force mains.
   E.   Costs Borne By Developer: The developer shall bear all costs incurred
in the extension of the sewer system to and through his development to include
the required excess capacity trunk lines. "Excess capacity" shall be defined as
including any necessary depth, line size, lift stations, force mains, etc.,
necessary to serve the entire drainage basin upstream from the development.
   F.   Reimbursement From City: Cost to the developer for the excess capacity
which he builds into the sewerage system serving his development shall be
reimbursable from the city in accordance with the following:
      1.   Cost of the excess capacity divided by the total number of acres in
the drainage basin served by the system;
      2.   These costs will be assessed by the city on a pro rata acre basis to
the subsequent developer benefitting from the facilities;
      3.   The city shall reimburse the original developer the assessments
collected from the subsequent developer benefitting from the excess capacity
for a period of fifteen (15) years or until the original developer has been
reimbursed eighty percent (80%) of his total cost, whichever occurs first. Any
amount the city may have spent in obtaining easements for the developer shall
be deducted from any payments due to the original developer, and such
deductions shall be paid to the city.
      4.   The city shall require any persons who desire to connect to or
extend from any excess capacity system to pay to the city for the benefit of
the developer of all excess capacity systems within the system the pro rata
acre cost for each excess capacity sewer within the system applicable to the
property to be served, including the use of any excess capacity trunk line as a
lateral;
      5.   In the event of multiple excess capacity segments within any excess
capacity system, the city will make reimbursements only in the order and
sequence constructed. Subsequent reimbursements shall be made to the next
succeeding segment in order until all contributing areas are developed;
      6.   In the event fees are uncollectible, the city shall not be liable
for payment; and
      7.   In the event fees are not able to be paid to the original developer,
the fees will be collected by the city and used for maintenance of the city's
sewer system. (1989 Code § 12-430)
   G.   Excess Capacity Not Built: If no excess capacity can be built, then a
fee in such amount, as established by resolution of the city council, per sewer
connection to the original line or any succeeding connection to a subsequent
branch from the original line shall be collected. These fees shall be returned
to the original developer as outlined above for a period of fifteen (15) years
or until the original developer has received fifty percent (50%) of his total
cost. (1989 Code § 12-430; amd. 2002 Code)
   H.   Cost Estimate: The city engineer shall review the developer's plans and
provide an estimate of the total cost of the sewer system, and the cost of
excess capacity. This estimate will be certified to the city clerk and shall be
the basis for computing any fees reimbursable to the developer.
   I.   Ownership Of System: After completion and acceptance of the developer's
sewers constructed pursuant hereto, and payment to the city and other
developers of all amounts required herein and upon connection of developer's
sewers to the sewerage system of the city, the developer's sewers shall
thereupon be and become a part of the sewerage system of the city under its
exclusive control and operation, subject only to the specific rights reserved
to the developer as herein set forth. The city shall have the further right to
make such connection and cross- connection as it may deem necessary for the
proper management and utilization of developer's sewers as an integrated part
of the sewerage system of the city.
   J.   Connection By City: The city may connect any sewers constructed by the
city wherein the property to be served by such sewers was within the city's
corporate limits as established prior to the date of any excess capacity
development, or sewers to serve any property owned by the city outside its
corporate limits regardless of date without being required to make any payment
to the developer of any excess capacity main. (1989 Code § 12-430)
CHAPTER 15
MOBILE HOME AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Definitions
10-15-2: Inspection Of Mobile Home And Travel Trailer Parks
10-15-3: Notice, Hearings And Orders
10-15-4: Nonresidential Mobile Trailers, Permits
10-15-5: Mobile Home, Travel Trailer Park Plans
10-15-6: Water Supply
10-15-7: Laundry Facilities
10-15-8: Sewage And Refuse Disposal
10-15-9: Garbage Receptacles
10-15-10: Traffic, Parking
10-15-11: Insect And Rodent Control
10-15-12: Animal Control
10-15-13: Register Of Occupants
10-15-14: Supervision
10-15-15: Wrecked Or Damaged Homes, Trailers
10-15-16: Minimum Housing Regulations For Mobile Homes
10-15-17: Mobile Home Subdivisions
10-15-18: Penalty
10-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and a
bath or shower. For purposes of regulation under this chapter, a dependent
mobile home shall be considered to be the same as a travel trailer, unless
otherwise specified.
HEALTH OFFICER: The legally designated health authority of the city or his
authorized representative.
INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a bath or
shower. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of this chapter, the term
"mobile home" shall mean an independent mobile home.
INSPECTION OFFICER: The building inspector of the city or his authorized agent.
MOBILE HOME: A movable or portable dwelling consisting of one or more
components or of two (2) or more units separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit designed for towing or transport on streets and
highways on its own wheels or chassis, both complete and ready for occupancy,
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on
jacks or permanent foundations, skirting, connection to utilities and similar
operations. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of this chapter, the term
"mobile home" shall refer to an "independent mobile home" as defined in this
section.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home, and not located on a mobile home sales lot.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where residence is in mobile homes exclusively, and where mobile home lots
are sold for occupancy.
NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER: Any vehicle having the basic characteristics of
either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer.
PARK: A mobile home or travel trailer park.
PERSON: A natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM OR PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM: Any such system built and owned by,
or dedicated to and accepted by the city; all other systems are private.
RURAL: Any area shown on the city area general plan for suburban or rural
development and which is zoned agriculturally.
SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men or
women, and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities and other
facilities.
SUBDIVISION: Mobile home subdivision, unless otherwise indicated.
TRAILER PARK OR TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or
more travel trailers, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
TRAVEL TRAILER OR TRAILER: All vehicles and portable structures built on a
chassis, designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational
and vacation use not included in the definition of independent mobile homes.
For purposes of regulation under this chapter, a dependent mobile home shall be
considered to be the same as a travel trailer, unless otherwise specified.
TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE: A plot of ground within a travel trailer park designed
for accommodation of one travel trailer.
URBAN: Any area shown on the city area general plan for urban intensity
development. (1989 Code § 12-501; amd. Ord. 658, 6-17-1997; 2002 Code)
10-15-2: INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME AND TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS:
   A.   Authority: The inspection officer or health officer is hereby
authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition of
mobile home and travel trailer parks located within the city in order to
perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of mobile
home parks and of the general public.
   B.   Outside Premises Inspection: The inspection officer and the health
officer shall have the power to inspect the outside premises of private or
public property for the purposes of inspecting and investigating conditions in
relation to the enforcement of this chapter or of regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   C.   Register Inspection: The inspection officer and the health officer
shall have the power to inspect any register containing a record of all mobile
homes and occupants using the park.
   D.   Access Required: It is the duty of every occupant of a park to give the
owner thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of the mobile home
park or travel trailer park or their premises at reasonable times for the
purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with this chapter or with any lawful regulations adopted thereunder,
or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(1989 Code § 12-502)
10-15-3: NOTICE, HEARINGS AND ORDERS:
   A.   Notice: Whenever the inspection officer or health officer determines
violations of this chapter or pertinent laws or ordinances exist, he shall
notify the owner or his agent of the alleged violation. The notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      3.   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      4.   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed ninety (90) days, for the
performance of any act it requires; and
      5.   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require. The
notice or order shall be deemed as properly served upon owner or agent when a
copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his last known address.
   B.   Hearing; Failure To Request: Any person affected by any notice issued
under this chapter or resulting regulation may request and shall be granted a
hearing on the matter before the board of adjustment. Such person shall file
with the inspection officer or health officer a written request for such
hearing and set forth briefly the grounds for such request within ten (10) days
after the notice was served. When no request for such hearing shall have been
filed within ten (10) days following the day on which notice was served, a
violation shall be deemed to have been automatically in existence at the
expiration of the ten (10) day period. The filing of the request shall not stay
the notice in cases of orders issued under this section. The hearing shall be
held by the board of adjustment at the earliest possible time.
   C.   Findings; Order; Appeal: After the hearing, the inspection officer or
health officer shall compile the findings of the board of adjustment as to
compliance with this chapter and pursuant regulations and shall issue an order
in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the prior notice which shall be
served as provided in this section. Appeals from decisions of the board of
adjustment shall be to the district court.
   D.   Emergency: Whenever the inspection officer or health officer finds that
an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public
health, the inspection officer or health officer may, without notice or
hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and
requiring that such action be taken as he may deem necessary to meet the
emergency. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order
shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed
shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the city council,
shall be afforded a hearing at the next regular meeting even if the agenda has
been completed. (1989 Code § 12-503)
10-15-4: NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS, PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: No nonresidential mobile trailer shall be permitted in
the city unless a permit for its operation is issued by the inspection officer
or health officer. Such permit shall specify the permitted use of the
nonresidential mobile trailer, the location of such operation and the
termination date of the permit. No permit shall be issued for a use which would
violate any city ordinance or state or federal law or regulation. (1989 Code §
12-505)
   B.   Fee For Permit; Exception: An annual fee in such amount as established
by resolution of the city council shall be charged for each nonresidential
mobile trailer. No governmental or nonprofit agency shall be charged such a
fee. (1989 Code § 12-505; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Contractors On Construction Projects: Operation of nonresidential
trailers by contractors on construction projects for which building permits
have been issued or which are otherwise approved by governmental units is
permitted during the term of such construction project without issuance of a
permit.
   D.   Permanent Location Prohibited: This section is not to be construed as
permitting or authorizing the permanent location of any nonresidential mobile
trailer in the city. (1989 Code § 12-505)
10-15-5: MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER PARK PLANS:
Any mobile home park or travel trailer park shall conform to the following
requirements:
   A.   Drainage: The park shall be located on a well-drained site, properly
graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water;
   B.   Minimum Space: Spaces shall be provided consisting of a minimum of one
thousand (1,000) square feet for each space which shall be at least thirty feet
(30') wide and clearly defined. Mobile homes or trailers shall be so harbored
on each space that there shall be at least a fifteen foot (15') clearance
between trailer coaches at their nearest point; provided, however, that with
respect to mobile homes or trailers parked end-to-end, the end-to-end clearance
between trailer coaches may be less than fifteen feet (15'), but shall be not
less than ten feet (10'). No mobile home or trailer shall be located closer
than ten feet (10') from any building within the park or from any side or rear
property line bounding the park, nor closer than twenty five feet (25') from
the front property line;
   C.   Driveways: All spaces shall abut upon a driveway of not less than
twenty five feet (25') in width which shall have unobstructed access to a
public street, alley or highway. All driveways shall be well marked;
   D.   Electrical Outlet Supply: An electrical outlet supplying at least two
hundred twenty (220) volts shall be provided for each space, with one hundred
ten (110) volt outlets; and
   E.   Utility Installations Comply With Code: All electrical, plumbing, gas
or other installations in the park shall comply with all state and local codes
and ordinances. (1989 Code § 12-506)
10-15-6: WATER SUPPLY:
An adequate supply of pure, potable water for drinking and domestic purposes
shall be supplied to meet the requirements of the park. It shall be capable of
furnishing a minimum of two hundred fifty (250) gallons per day per space. Each
space shall be provided with a cold water tap at least four inches (4") above
the ground. (1989 Code § 12-508)
10-15-7: LAUNDRY FACILITIES:
If laundry facilities are provided, not less than one double laundry tub and
one conventional wringer-type washing machine shall be provided for every
twenty (20) spaces or one single laundry tub and one automatic or semi-
automatic type washing machine shall be furnished for every twenty (20) spaces.
An electrical outlet shall be provided to supply current sufficient to operate
each washing machine. Drying spaces shall be provided to accommodate the
laundry of the occupants of trailers or mobile homes. The service building
housing the laundry facilities shall be a permanent structure complying with
all applicable ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical
installations and plumbing and sanitation systems. (1989 Code § 12-509)
10-15-8: SEWAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL:
Each space shall be provided with a sewer connection at least four inches (4")
in diameter, which shall be connected to receive the waste from the shower,
bathtub, flush toilet, lavatory, and kitchen sink of the mobile home or trailer
harbored in such space. The sewer in each space shall be connected to discharge
the waste into a public sewer system. It shall be unlawful for any dependent
mobile home to be harbored in a mobile home or trailer park within the city.
(1989 Code § 12-510)
10-15-9: GARBAGE RECEPTACLES:
Waterproof, flytight and rodent-proof garbage containers shall be provided in
quantities adequate to permit disposal of all garbage and rubbish. Garbage
containers shall be located no farther than two hundred feet (200') from any
space. The containers shall be kept in sanitary condition at all times. Garbage
and rubbish shall be collected and disposed of as frequently as may be
necessary to ensure that the garbage containers shall not overflow. (1989 Code
§ 12-511)
10-15-10: TRAFFIC, PARKING:
   A.   Parking On Or Adjacent To Street; Appeal: In mobile home or travel
trailer parks existing as of May 1, 1982, parking on or adjacent to the street
within the park is permissible as long as it does not obstruct free movements
of traffic. Whether or not a safety hazard exists is a question to be
determined by the planning commission with final appeal to the city council.
If, upon final appeal before the city council, it is determined by the city
council that a safety hazard does in fact exist, the mobile home or travel
trailer park will be required to comply with subsection B of this section.
(1989 Code § 12-512)
   B.   Ingress And Egress: In the city limits, new mobile home parks shall
abut, and have their major means of ingress and egress on, at least a secondary
thoroughfare. Travel trailer parks in the city limits shall abut, and have
their major means of ingress and egress on, at least a primary thoroughfare.
(1989 Code § 12-512; amd. 2002 Code)
10-15-11: INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL:
   A.   Required: Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health
as required by the health officer shall be applied in the park.
   B.   Larvicidal Solutions: Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by
the inspection or health officer for fly- or mosquito-breeding areas which
cannot be controlled by other, more permanent measures.
   C.   Control Of Insects And Weeds: The inspection or the health officer may
require the park operator to take suitable measures to control other insects
and obnoxious weeds.
   D.   Debris Accumulation Prohibited: Accumulations of debris which may
provide harborage for rodents shall not be permitted in the mobile home park.
   E.   Rodent Control: When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to
be in the park, the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by
the inspection or health officer, to exterminate them. (1989 Code § 12-513)
10-15-12: ANIMAL CONTROL:
No owner or person in charge of any dog, cat or other pet animal shall permit
it to run at large or commit any nuisance within the limits of any trailer or
mobile home park. (1989 Code § 12-514)
10-15-13: REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS:
   A.   Required: It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep a register
containing a record of all mobile home or trailer owners and occupants located
within the park. The register shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of each occupant;
      2.   The make, model and year of all automobiles, trailers and mobile
homes;
      3.   License number and owner of each trailer, mobile home, and any
automobile by which either is towed;
      4.   The state issuing such license; and
      5.   The date of arrival and departure of each trailer or mobile home.
   B.   Inspection: The park shall keep the register available for inspection
at all times by law enforcement officers, public health officials and other
officials, whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in
the register. The register records shall not be destroyed for a period of three
(3) years following the date of registration. (1989 Code § 12-515)
10-15-14: SUPERVISION:
A responsible attendant or caretaker, owner or operator shall be in charge at
all times to keep the park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly
and sanitary condition and he shall be answerable, with the licensee, for any
violation of the provisions of this chapter. (1989 Code § 12-516)
10-15-15: WRECKED OR DAMAGED HOMES, TRAILERS:
Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated mobile homes and travel trailers shall not be
kept or stored in a mobile home park or travel trailer park. The health officer
shall determine if a mobile home or travel trailer is damaged or dilapidated to
a point which makes the mobile home or travel trailer unfit for human occupancy
on either a temporary or permanent basis. Whenever such a determination is
made, the mobile home or travel trailer shall be vacated and removed from the
premises. (1989 Code § 12-517)
10-15-16: MINIMUM HOUSING REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE HOMES:
   A.   Residential Code Compliance: Every mobile home located in either a
mobile home park or a mobile home subdivision shall meet the provisions of the
residential code of the city, except as may be otherwise provided in this
section. (1989 Code § 12-518; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 08-11-18H, 11-18-2008)
   B.   Flush Toilet, Bath Or Shower Exception: Dependent mobile homes shall
not be required to have a flush toilet or a bath or shower. (1989 Code § 12-
518)
   C.   Residential Code Exception: The residential code shall not apply to
travel trailers insofar as floor area, flush toilet, bath or shower, and
ceiling height is concerned. (1989 Code § 12-518; amd. Ord. 08-11-18H, 11-18-
2008)
10-15-17: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: Mobile home subdivisions shall comply with the
subdivision ordinance and zoning ordinance of the city, effective May 1, 1982,
except as otherwise provided.
   B.   Acreage: The minimum size of mobile home subdivision shall be ten (10)
acres.
   C.   Mobile Homes Required: No residences except mobile homes shall be
permitted in a mobile home subdivision.
   D.   Lot Dimensions: Minimum effective lot width in a mobile home
subdivision shall be forty feet (40') measured at the front building line and
minimum lot areas shall be four thousand (4,000) square feet; provided, that at
least a five foot (5') side yard shall be provided on each lot beyond any
mobile home and additions thereto; and further provided, that in areas not
serviced by a public sewer, the minimum additional lot area shall be determined
by the health officer on the basis of safe and sanitary sewer service. The
effective lot width of a mobile home shall be determined, for interior lots, by
measuring at right angles across the lot from one diagonal side line to the
other, and for corner lots, the measurements shall be made at right angles from
the diagonal having the greatest divergence from perpendicular to the street,
through the midpoint of the rear line of the required front yard, to the
opposite lot line or an extension thereof.
   E.   Side Lines: Side lines of lots in mobile home subdivisions need not be
at right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   F.   Abut Public Street: Regardless of the effective lot width, mobile home
subdivision lots must abut a public street for at least twenty five feet (25').
   G.   Buffer Strip: All parks may have and maintain a buffer strip along all
park boundaries not bordering a street. Such strip may consist of shrubs spaced
at a distance that will properly screen with a solid appearance a height of at
least five feet (5') or more, or a wood or masonry fencing material at least
five feet (5') in height. Also, opaque fencing shall be installed where mobile
home parks abut existing single-family residential areas. Opaque fencing shall
not include conventional wire or chainlink type construction with materials
inserted to give a solid appearance. (1989 Code § 12-519)
10-15-18: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1989 Code § 12-520)
CHAPTER 16
REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-16-1: Created
10-16-2: Jurisdiction
10-16-3: Duties And Powers
10-16-4: Reserved
10-16-5: Reserved
10-16-6: Reserved
10-16-7: Reserved
10-16-8: Reserved
10-16-9: Reserved
10-16-10: Reserved
10-16-11: Penalty
10-16-1: CREATED:
   A.   There is hereby created a regional planning commission of the city of
Sayre, as authorized in 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 46-101 through 46-104,
1991, et seq.
   B.   Said commission shall be composed of the five (5) members of the city
of Sayre planning commission. The mayor and city manager of the city of Sayre,
chairman of the board of county commissioners of Beckham County, Oklahoma, the
county engineer, and two (2) Sayre city council members, appointed by the mayor
and approved by a majority of the council, shall be ex officio voting members
of the regional planning commission but shall not be counted for purpose of a
quorum. Members of the regional planning commission shall serve without pay.
   C.   The qualifications, appointment and removal and terms, rules and
regulations of the Sayre regional planning commission shall be the same as
those established for the Sayre city council. (Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
10-16-2: JURISDICTION:
In addition to the jurisdiction of the Sayre planning commission, the regional
planning commission shall have jurisdiction over a regional district which
shall be construed to mean any land outside the incorporated city limits of the
city of Sayre, Oklahoma, within an area whose any one boundary, at any point,
shall be a distance of three (3) miles from the incorporated limits of Sayre.
(Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
10-16-3: DUTIES AND POWERS:
   A.   The Sayre regional planning commission shall prepare from time to time
plans for the systematic development and betterment of the regional district
for residence, business or manufacturing purposes. It may consider and
investigate any subject matter tending to the development and betterment of
such regional district, and make recommendations as it may deem advisable
concerning the adoption thereof to any department of the city or county
government.
   B.   The Sayre regional planning commission shall have the power to review
and approve or reject, in accordance with its adopted subdivision regulations.
   C.   Before final action shall be taken by the city or county government or
department thereof on the location and design of any public buildings, statue,
memorial park, parkway, boulevard, playground, public grounds, or bridge within
such regional district, the question shall be submitted to the regional
planning commission for investigation and report.
   D.   All plans, plats, or replats of land laid out in lots or blocks, and
the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to
public or private use within such regional district, shall first be submitted
to Sayre regional planning commission and approved by it before it shall be
entitled to record in the office of the county clerk.
   E.   For large areas of rural land not served by water and sewer facilities
by any governmental entities, the use of private roadways in either platted or
unplatted areas shall be recognized and authorized and building permits to
property owners abutting upon the private roadways shall be issued without
complying with standards as provided for dedicated streets under the following
conditions:
      1.   The private roadway easement shall be at least fifty feet (50') in
width;
      2.   The property abutting the private roadway shall contain not less
than two (2) acres;
      3.   The property shall be more than one-fourth (1/4) mile from sewer and
water facilities furnished by the city of Sayre;
      4.   The private roadway shall not be dedicated to the public but
reserved for future dedication and, until such future dedication, be the
private roadway of the abutting property owners;
      5.   The owners of the property within the subdivision shall maintain the
private roadway. Not the city of Sayre nor the county shall have responsibility
for the maintenance and repair of the private roadway;
      6.   If the property is platted, there shall be emblemized on the face of
the plat, clearly conspicuous, a notice that the streets and drives have not
been dedicated to the public, and that the streets shall be maintained by the
private property owners within the subdivision, but that streets shall always
be open to police, fire, and other official vehicles of all state, federal,
county and municipal agencies;
      7.   Every deed shall clearly acknowledge that the roadway is private and
not maintained by any municipality or county;
      8.   Prior to the sale of any parcel in the subdivision, a conspicuous
sign shall be posted at the entrance of the subdivision: "Private Roadway Not
Maintained By City Of Sayre Or The County";
      9.   At any time after use of such private roadway is recognized and
authorized pursuant to law, a petition of at least sixty percent (60%) of the
owners, in area, to improve and dedicate the street shall bind all of the
owners thereby to permanently improve the street or roadway in compliance with
the applicable requirements of the city of Sayre or the county. All other
ordinances and regional planning commission regulations pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter relating to subdivisions not in conflict herewith
shall be applicable in such cases;
      10.   The regional planning commission may require the developer of such
property to reserve appropriate utility easements for water, sewer, and any
other utility installations as may be required for present and future
development. (Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
10-16-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
10-16-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
10-16-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
10-16-7: RESERVED:
(Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
10-16-8: RESERVED:
(Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
10-16-9: RESERVED:
(Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
10-16-10: RESERVED:
(Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
10-16-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and costs as provided for in section
1-4-1 et seq., of this code, unless a separate and distinct penalty is
otherwise specifically set forth in this chapter. Each day's continuation of
such violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 11-05-17, 5-17-2011)
