TOWN OF SEILING, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-03, passed 4-14-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2024-5
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF SEILING, OKLAHOMA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF SEILING DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE
OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Seiling
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Oklahoma empower and
authorize the Town Board of Trustees for the Town of Seiling to revise, amend,
restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Town Board of Trustees of the Town of Seiling has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Seiling of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in
book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the Town of Seiling that this ordinance takes
effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE TOWN OF
SEILING, OKLAHOMA
SECTION 1. The general ordinances of the Town of Seiling as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Seiling, Oklahoma"
SECTION 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30. Board of Trustees and Mayor
   31.   Officials, Personnel and Organizations
   32.   Public Safety; Emergency Management
   33.   Municipal Court
   34.   Elections
   35.   Finance and Revenue; Taxation
   36.   General Administrative Policies
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50. Solid Waste
   51. Water
   52.   Sewers
   53.   Gas
   
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   Traffic and Parking Regulations
   71.   Recreational and Toy Vehicles
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   Health and Sanitation, Nuisance
   91.   Animal Control
   92.   Fair Housing
   93.   Recreation and Leisure
   94.   Fire Prevention and Protection
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.   Alcoholic Beverages
   111.    Sales and Services
   112.   Medical Marijuana
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.   General Offenses
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150.    Building Regulations; Construction
   151.   Dilapidated Building
   152.   Streets, Sidewalks and Public Ways
   153.   Flood Control
   154.   Zoning
            TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARELLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
INDEX
SECTION 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
SECTION 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Borad of Trustees and the Clerk of the Town of Seiling
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in
the Office of the Clerk.
SECTION 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
SECTION 6.  This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of the Town of Seiling and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE TOWN OF SEILING BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF
SEILING, OKLAHOMA ON THIS 21st DAY OF OCTOBER, 2024.
                  _______________________________________
                  Mayor - Mickey Louthan
Attest:
____________________________________________
Clerk - Shara Feuerborn
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
RESOLUTION 2025-29-R
 
A RESOLUTION APPROVING A LANDBANKING AGREEMENT AMENDMENT FOR THE PROPERTY
LOCATED AT 1350 MUNGER ROAD
____________________________
 
BE IT RESOLVED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Bartlett, Cook, DuPage and Kane Counties, Illinois, pursuant to its home rule
authority, as follows:
   SECTION ONE:   APPROVAL. The Landbanking Agreement Amendment between the
Village of Bartlett and Dawson Logistics Assets, LLC, relating to the property
located at 1350 Munger Road (the “Agreement”), a copy of which is appended
hereto as Exhibit A and expressly incorporated herein by this reference, is
hereby approved.
   SECTION TWO:    AUTHORIZATION. The Village President is hereby authorized
and directed to sign the Agreement on behalf of the Village of Bartlett.
SECTION THREE:   SEVERABILITY. The various provisions of this Resolution are to
be considered as severable, and of any part or portion of this Resolution shall
be held invalid by any Court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this Resolution.
 
SECTION FOUR:   REPEAL OF PRIOR RESOLUTIONS. All prior Ordinances and
Resolutions in conflict or inconsistent herewith are hereby expressly repealed
only to the extent of such conflict or inconsistency.
SECTION FIVE:   EFFECTIVE DATE.     This Resolution shall be in full force and
effect upon passage and approval.
ROLL CALL VOTE: 
 
AYES:   Trustees Deyne, Gandsey, Gunsteen, Hopkins, LaPorte, Suwanski 
 
NAYS:   None 
 
ABSENT:   None 
 
PASSED:   April 15, 2025
 
APPROVED: April 15, 2025
 
 
________________________________ 
Kevin Wallace, Village President 
 
  
ATTEST: 
 
 
______________________________ 
Lorna Giless, Village Clerk 
 
 
C E R T I F I C A T I O N 
 
I, Lorna Giless, do hereby certify that I am the Village Clerk of the Village
of Bartlett, Cook, DuPage and Kane Counties, Illinois, and that the foregoing
is a true, complete and exact copy of Resolution 2025-29-R enacted on April 15,
2025, approved on April 15, 2025 as the same appears from the official records
of the Village of Bartlett. 
 
 
_______________________________ 
Lorna Giless, Village Clerk 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
1350 Munger Road Landbanking Agreement
 
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance of code
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Code alterations
   
10.05   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.06   Court proceedings
   
10.07   Severability clause
   
10.08   Rules of interpretation
   
10.09   Definitions
   
10.10   Catchlines
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the town’s Board of Trustees, this code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of
Seiling. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the “Seiling Town
Code” and is hereby published by authority of the town’s Board of Trustees and
shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as
provided in §
10.03 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE OF CODE.
   This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.05 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter
and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code.
   (B)   All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately
forwarded to the codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared
for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer when directed so to do by order of the town’s Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in § 10.07 of this chapter), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   (A)   Tax levy ordinances;
   (B)   Appropriation ordinances;
   (C)   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   (D)   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   (E)   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   (F)   Salary ordinances;
   (G)   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   (H)   Improvement ordinances;
   (I)   Bond ordinances;
   (J)   Ordinances relating to elections;
   (K)   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the town; and
   (L)   All special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.06 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Prior acts.
      (1)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable.
      (2)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   Extend to all repeals. This section shall extend to all repeals,
either by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance
making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Current pending actions. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under, or by virtue of, any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   (A)   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference.
   (B)   The town’s Board of Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed
each section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, divisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 10.08 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Liberal construction. All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the town’s Board of Trustees may be fully
carried out.
   (B)   Minimum requirements. In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (C)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   (D)   Gender. The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   (E)   May; shall. The word “may” is permissive; the word “shall” is
mandatory.
   (F)   Non-technical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
   (G)   Officers and employees generally. Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words “of the Town of Seiling”.
   (H)   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as
well as the past and present.
   (I)   Ordinance. The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the
town has been changed in the content of this code to “title”, “chapter”,
“section” and/or “subsection” or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to town ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. Unless otherwise indicated, the Town Board of Trustees of
the Town of Seiling.
   CODE. The Town Code of the Town of Seiling.
   COUNTY. The County of Dewey, State of Oklahoma.
   O.S. Oklahoma Statutes.
   PERSON. Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
   TOWN. The Town of Seiling, County of Dewey, State of Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.10 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the sections and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Except in cases where a different punishment is or may be prescribed
in this code, any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this code shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not less than $20 and
not more than $500, plus costs and assessments. Each day’s continuation of an
offense or misdemeanor is a separate offense or misdemeanor and is punishable
as such.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   (1)   Application of penalty. The penalty provided in this section
shall be applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section.
      (2)   Acts punishable under different sections. In all cases where the
same offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections
of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided that, the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Breach of provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or the omission
to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the town’s Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND MAYOR
      
31.   OFFICIALS, PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
36.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND MAYOR
Section
   
30.01   Composition
   
30.02   Mayor
   
30.03   Regular meetings
   
30.04   Compensation
   
30.05   Authority of Board; contagious diseases
§ 30.01 COMPOSITION.
   The town’s Board of Trustees shall consist and be composed of five Trustees;
said Trustees to be elected by the town at large.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1) (Ord. 2006-2, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 30.02 MAYOR.
   (A)   Presiding officer; general powers and duties. The Mayor shall preside
at all meetings of the Board of Trustees, and shall have the right to vote on
questions coming before the Board of Trustees, and shall have the
superintending control of all the officers and affairs of the town, and shall
take care that there is compliance with the provisions of this code. He or she
shall be the chief executive officer of the town.
   (B)   Additional powers and duties.
      (1)   Sign commissions and approve bonds. The Mayor shall sign the
commissions and appointments of all officers elected or appointed, and endorse
the approval of all official bonds approved by the Mayor and the Board of
Trustees.
      (2)   Sign warrants. The Mayor shall sign all orders and warrants drawn
upon the treasury for money.
      (3)   Require reports. The Mayor shall, when he or she deems it
necessary, require any officer of the town to exhibit his or her accounts, or
other official papers, and to make a report to the Board of Trustees in
writing, touching any subject matter pertaining to his or her office, and if
any officer, upon such accounting, be found a defaulter, he or she shall be
removed by the Mayor and the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Enforcement powers. The Mayor shall be active and vigilant in
enforcing all of the provisions of this code, and shall cause all officers to
be dealt with promptly for neglect or violations of their duty.
      (5)   Require aid in enforcement. The Mayor is hereby authorized to call
upon every inhabitant in the town, over 18 years of age and under the age of 50
years, to aid in enforcing the laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 30.03 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   All regular meetings for the Town Board shall be held on the second
Monday of each month, unless conflicting with a holiday.
   (B)   (1)   The town meetings normally begin at 6:15 p.m. with the Planning
and Zoning Commission meeting.
      (2)   However, at any time during its meetings, the town’s Board of
Trustees may recess and take up the agenda for the Board of Adjustment, the
Board of Trustees, the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Public Works
Authority, the Municipal Hospital Authority, the Nursing Facility Authority or
the Economic Development Authority.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3) (Ord. 2023-7, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 30.04 COMPENSATION.
   The pay period for the town’s Board of Trustees shall be monthly. The
Trustees whose terms begin on or after 4-17-1989 shall be paid the following
salaries each pay period during the performance of their duties:
 
        Regular Meetings Special Meetings
Mayor    $50              $15
Trustees $25              $10
 
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 30.05 AUTHORITY OF BOARD; CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
   The town’s Board of Trustees may make regulations to prevent the
introduction of contagious diseases into the town and may enforce quarantine
laws within five miles of the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS, PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Employment
   
31.02   Discharge of employees
   
31.03   Retirement
Officials and Officers
   
31.15   Town Administrator
   
31.16   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.17   Chief of Police
Organizations
   
31.30   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
31.31   Board of Park Commissioners
   
31.32   Board of Airport Commissioners
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Management Organization, see §§
32.20 through
32.28
   Fire Department, see §§
32.01 through
32.08
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 EMPLOYMENT.
   All personnel employed by the town, or any officer thereof, shall be
employed at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 31.02 DISCHARGE OF EMPLOYEES.
   Personnel may only be discharged for a good and substantiated reason. The
department head shall present his or her recommendations and the reasons
therefor to the Board of Trustees, which has the responsibility of final
approval or disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 31.03 RETIREMENT.
   (A)   Employee retirement system adopted. There is hereby adopted by
reference, as though set forth herein in its entirety, an employee retirement
system. A copy of said retirement system provisions, and amending ordinances,
shall be and remain on file and available for inspection in the office of the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Social Security.
      (1)   Declaration of policy.
         (a)   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the town
to extend, at the earliest date, to the employees and officials thereof, not
excluded by law or this division (B), and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of federal old
age and survivors insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act,
being 42 U.S.C. § 301- 1305, and amendments thereto, including Pub. Law No.
734, 81st congress. In pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the town
shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws
or regulations.
         (b)   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the town
to extend the benefits of the system of federal old age and survivors insurance
as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act, and amendments thereto,
including Pub. Law No. 734, 81st congress, to employees and officials of the
town rendering services in part time positions, elective officials engaged in
rendering executive services and elective officials engaged in rendering
judicial services, in addition to those employees and officials of the town
presently receiving the benefits of the system of federal old age and survivors
insurance. In pursuance of this policy and for that purpose, the town shall
take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
      (2)   Agreement with state. The town’s Board of Trustees is hereby
authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments
thereto with the state’s Department of Public Welfare, as agent or agency, to
secure coverage of said employees and officials as provided in § 142, said
agreement or amendment to be retroactive to 1-1-1959, with respect to such of
said employees and officials as are members of such coverage groups on the date
such agreement or amendment is executed.
      (3)   Withholdings. Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and
officials for the purpose provided in §§ 140 and 142 are hereby authorized to
be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state
or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state or federal
agency designated by said laws or regulations. There shall be appropriated from
available funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations for employer contributions, which shall be
paid over to the state or federal agency designated by said laws or
regulations.
      (4)   Records and reports. The town shall keep such records and make such
reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
      (5)   Exclusions.
         (a)   There is hereby excluded from this division (B) any authority to
make any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official now
covered or authorized to be covered by any other ordinance creating any
retirement system for any employee or official of the town.
         (b)   There is hereby excluded from this division (B) any authority to
make any agreement with respect to any position, or any employee or official,
compensation for which is on a fee basis, or any employee or official not
authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, or
any employee rendering services of an emergency nature, or any elective
officials engaged in rendering legislative services.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
OFFICIALS AND OFFICERS
§ 31.15 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Office created. The office of the Town Administrator is hereby
created.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-1)
   (B)   Appointment; term; qualifications; restrictions. The Town
Administrator shall be appointed by majority vote of the Board of Trustees for
an indefinite term. The Administrator shall be chosen by the Board solely on
the basis of his or her executive and administrative qualification with special
reference to his or her actual experience in or his or her knowledge of
accepted practice in respect to the duties of his or her office hereinafter set
forth. At the time of his or her appointment, he or she need not be a resident
of the town or the state. After the appointment and before his or her first pay
period, he or she shall reside within the state, but is not required to reside
within the town. No Board member shall receive such appointment during the term
for which he or she shall have been elected, nor within one year after the
expiration of his or her term.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-2)
   (C)   Removal from office.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees may remove the Town Administrator at any time
by a majority vote of its members.
      (2)   If requested, the Board of Trustees shall grant him or her a public
hearing within 30 days following notice of removal.
      (3)   During the interim, the Board of Trustees may suspend the
Administrator from duty, but shall continue his or her salary and, if the
removal becomes final, shall pay his or her salary for two calendar months
following the final removal date.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-3)
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Town Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of
the town. He or she may head one or more departments and shall be responsible
to the Board of Trustees for the proper administration of all affairs of the
town. To that end, he or she shall have power and shall be required to:
         (a)   Hire and fire when necessary for the good of the service,
suspend or remove officers and employees of the town, except as otherwise
provided by law;
         (b)   Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the Board of
Trustees, together with a message describing the important features, and be
responsible for its administration after adoption;
         (c)   Prepare and submit to the Board of Trustees as of the end of the
fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the town for the preceding year;
         (d)   Keep the Board of Trustees advised of the financial condition
and future needs of the town, and make such recommendations as he or she may
deem desirable;
         (e)   Recommend to the Board of Trustees a standard schedule of pay
for each appointive office and position in the town service, including minimum,
intermediate and maximum rates;
         (f)   Recommend to the Board of Trustees (from time to time) adoption
of such measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the health,
safety or welfare of the community or for the improvement of administrative
services;
         (g)   Attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees unless excused
therefrom and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the
Board. He or she shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special
meetings of the Board;
         (h)   Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies and equipment
for which funds are provided in the budget. The Administrator may issue such
rules governing purchasing procedures within the administrative organization;
         (i)   See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced;
         (j)   Investigate the affairs of the town or any department or
division thereof. Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning
the administration of the government of the town, and in regard to service
maintained by the public utilities in the town, and see that all franchises,
permits and privileges granted by the town are faithfully observed;
         (k)   Devote his or her entire time to the discharge of his or her
official duties; and
         (l)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Board of
Trustees, not inconsistent with the town ordinances or law.
      (2)   The Town Administrator is authorized to:
         (a)   Ensure adequate internal controls against unauthorized or
illegal payment of invoices and approve payment of invoices with proper
documentation; and
         (b)   Establish a petty cash account up to $600 for use in making
payments for costs in operating the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-4)
   (E)   Compensation. The Town Administrator shall receive such compensation
as the Board of Trustees shall fix from time to time by ordinance or
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-5)
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 6-11-2007; Ord. 2008-7, passed 6-20-2008)
§ 31.16 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   One office. The Offices of Town Clerk and Town Treasurer are hereby
combined, merged and consolidated as one office.
(Prior Code, § 1-6B-1)
   (B)   Duties in addition to statute requirements. The person who serves as
town Clerk-Treasurer may perform additional duties not specified by state law
as an employee of the town. Said additional duties shall be performed by the
person serving as Town Clerk-Treasurer or as otherwise provided by motion or
other action of the Board. The person performing additional duties shall serve
at the pleasure of the Board and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed
by the Board, Mayor or Town Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 1-6B-2)
   (C)   Compensation. The pay period for the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall be
monthly. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall be paid each pay period the amount of
$225 a month contingent upon the performance of the statutory duties of the
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-6B-3)
§ 31.17 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Chief of Police who shall enforce this
code and have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
the laws of the state or the ordinances of the town. The Chief of Police may
appoint police officers as he or she deems necessary, subject to the approval
and confirmation of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6C-1)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.30 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Created; composition; appointment; terms; compensation.
      (1)   There is hereby created a Planning and Zoning Commission of the
town. Said Commission shall be composed of five members, all of whom shall be
residents of the town, nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of
Trustees. The Mayor and Town Administrator shall be ex officio members of the
Commission. Each appointed member shall hold office for a period of three years
or until his or her successor takes office. The appointed members of the
Commission shall be nominated and appointed solely with reference to their
fitness and without reference to party affiliation and shall serve without
compensation.
      (2)   Ex officio members shall receive no compensation for their work on
the Planning and Zoning Commission other than the fixed salary of their office.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
   (B)   Removals and vacancies. Members may be removed by the Mayor or the
Board of Trustees only for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malefaction in
office. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall
be filled only for the unexpired term by the Mayor, with confirmation by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
   (C)   Organization.
      (1)   Officers. The Commission shall elect a Chair, a Vice Chair and a
Secretary, and may create and fill such other offices as it may deem necessary.
The term of the Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary shall be one year with
eligibility for reelection.
      (2)   Meetings. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold at least
one regular meeting each month.
      (3)   Rules and records. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall adopt
rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
regulations, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a
public record.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
   (D)   Quorum. Three members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; provided, however, that,
no action shall be taken which is binding upon said Planning and Zoning
Commission unless concurred by not less than a majority of all members
comprising the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4)
   (E)   Powers and duties generally; Comprehensive Plan.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power and the
duty to prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees for adoption a
comprehensive plan for the physical development of the town.
      (2)   In conducting its work, the Planning and Zoning Commission may
consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the development and
betterment of the town and may make recommendations as it may deem advisable
concerning the adoption thereof to the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may make or cause to be made
surveys, studies, maps and plans in the conduct of its activities. Before final
action is taken by the Board of Trustees on the location or design of any
public building, statue, memorial, park, parkway, boulevard, street and alley,
playground, public grounds, bridge or change in any location or grade of any
street or alley, such question shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for investigation and report.
      (4)   In the preparation of the comprehensive plan, the Planning and
Zoning Commission may, from time to time, prepare and recommend to the Board of
Trustees for adoption a part or parts thereof, which parts shall cover one or
more major geographical divisions of the town or one or more major elements of
the Comprehensive Plan.
      (5)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may, from time to time,
recommend extending, amending or changing any portion of the Comprehensive
Plan.
      (6)   In the preparation of the plan, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions
and future growth of the town and with due regard to its relation to
neighboring territory. The plan shall be made with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of
the town and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future
needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of
development, including, among other things, adequate provisions for traffic,
the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for
light and air, the promotion of healthful and convenient distribution of
population, the promotion of good civic design and arrangement and wise and
efficient expenditure of public funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5)
   (F)   Subdivision of land.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may prepare and recommend to the
Board of Trustees for adoption rules and regulations governing the subdivision
of land within the corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   All plans, plats or replats of land laid out in two or more lots,
plats or parcels or streets, alleys or other ways intended to be dedicated to
public use within the corporate limits of the town shall first be submitted to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for its recommendations.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall, with the help of
appropriate town officials, check the proposed dedications or subdivision of
land to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations governing subdivision
of land and with other elements of the Comprehensive Plan for the town.
      (4)   The disapproval of any such plan, plat or replat by the Board of
Trustees shall be deemed a refusal of the dedications shown thereon.
      (5)   No plat or replat of subdivision of land or dedication of street or
alley or other easement shall be entitled to record unless it bears the
signature of the Mayor, attested by the town’s Clerk- Treasurer, certifying the
approval and acceptance thereof by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)
   (G)   Zoning regulations.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power to prepare
and to recommend to the Board of Trustees, for adoption, a zoning plan to
regulate and restrict the height, number of stories and size of buildings and
other structures, the percentage of a lot that may be occupied, the size of
yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of population and the location
and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residences and
other purposes.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend the division of
the town into districts of such number, size and area as may be deemed best
suited to carry out the zoning plan. All such regulations shall be uniform for
each class or kind of buildings throughout each district, but the regulations
in one district may differ from those in other districts.
      (3)   Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive
plan and designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from
fire, panic and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to
provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid
undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among other
things, as to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7)
   (H)   Employment of staff. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the
power and authority to employ planners, engineers, attorneys, clerks and other
help deemed necessary within the limits of the appropriation fixed by the Board
of Trustees. The salary and compensation shall be fixed by the town’s Board of
Trustees and shall be paid out of the town treasury as is the compensation of
other town officers and employees within the limits of its appropriation to
carry out its purposes and responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-8)
§ 31.31 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Title. The name of this section shall be the “Board of Park
Commissioners of the Town of Seiling”.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
   (B)   Composition; appointment; terms. The Board of Park Commissioners shall
consist of one Town Trustee and at least four members to be appointed by the
town’s Board of Trustees. The terms of office of the members of the Board shall
be a period of two years, and all terms shall not expire at the same time.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
   (C)   Organization.
      (1)   Officers. The Board shall, when so appointed, elect one of its
members as Chair of the Board and another as Vice Chair, and the Board shall
elect a member Secretary, and thereafter, such officers shall be chosen at the
beginning of each year or as soon thereafter as practical.
      (2)   Meetings. The Board shall meet as often as necessary to properly
perform its functions.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3)
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Board of Park Commissioners shall act in an advisory capacity
to the town’s Board of Trustees in connection with the care, management and
control of all parks and grounds used for park purposes, including care and
management of ballparks known as the “Quadraplex” and all boulevards and
parkways now or hereafter owned by or under the control of the town.
      (2)   The Board shall advise and suggest to the town’s Board of Trustees
methods of improving and adorning parks, boulevards and parkways and suggest
necessary rules and regulations for the maintenance of order, safety and
decency in the parks, both within and without the limits of the town; however,
any such rules or regulations shall be enacted by the town’s Board of Trustees.
For the purpose of enforcing such rules and regulations, all such parks and
property within and without the limits of the town are hereby placed under the
police jurisdiction of the town.
      (3)   Any member of the law enforcement may arrest, without warrant, in
any such parks or places, whether within or without the limits of the town, any
person who has broken any park rule or committed any violation of such rules or
the ordinances of the town in any park, and the Municipal Court of the town
shall have jurisdiction of all such violations committed within the limits of
the parks.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
   (E)   Park property.
      (1)   Definition. The term PARK PROPERTY includes all parks, street
parking and all buildings, structures, improvements, seats, benches, fountains,
boats, floats, walks, drives, roads, trees, plants, herbages, flowers and other
things thereon, and the enclosures of the same, and all trees on streets or
thoroughfares, resting places, water stations, playgrounds, ballparks or the
like, and all boulevards, parkways, roads or drives between parks.
      (2)   Conflict of interest of Board members. No member of the Board of
Park Commissioners shall be concerned in any contract for profit with the town
or any of its departments, either as contractor, subcontractor, bondsman or
other party directly or indirectly interested regarding “park property”, as
defined in division (E)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5)
   (F)   Gifts. Real or personal property may be granted, bequeathed, devised
or conveyed to the town for the purpose of the improvement or ornamentation of
parks or approaches, or for the establishment or maintenance therein of
museums, zoological or other gardens, collections of natural history,
observatories, monuments, statues, fountains or other works of art, upon such
trusts and conditions as may be prescribed by the grantors or divisors thereof,
and accepted by the town’s Board of Trustees. All property so devised, granted,
bequeathed or conveyed, and the rents, issues, profits and income thereof,
shall be subject to the exclusive management, direction and control of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6)
§ 31.32 BOARD OF AIRPORT COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Title. The name of this section shall be the “Board of Airport
Commissioners of the Town of Seiling, Oklahoma”.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
   (B)   Composition; appointment; term. The Board of Airport Commissioners
shall consist of five persons to be appointed by the town’s Board of Trustees.
The term of office of the Commissioners shall be for a period of two years.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)
   (C)   Officers. The Board shall, when so appointed, elect one of its members
as Chair and another as Vice Chair, and the Board shall elect a member as
Secretary and, thereafter, such officers shall be chosen at the beginning of
each subsequent year.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3)
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Board of Airport Commissioners shall act in an
advisory capacity to the town’s Board of Trustees in planning, establishing,
developing, constructing, enlarging, improving, maintaining, equipping,
operating, regulating, protecting and policing airport and air navigation
facilities, either within or without the territorial limits of the town, now or
hereafter owned by or under the control of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4)
   (E)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      AIR NAVIGATION FACILITY. Any facility, other than one owned and operated
by the United States, used in, available for use in, or designed for use in,
aid of air navigation, including any structures, mechanisms, lights, beacons,
markers, communications systems or other instrumentalities, or devices used or
useful as an aid, or constituting an advantage or convenience, to the safe
taking off, navigation and landing of aircraft, or the safe, efficient
operation or maintenance of an airport, and any combination of any or all of
such facilities.
      AIRPORT. Any area of land or water which is used or intended for use for
the landing and takeoff of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used
or intended to be used for airport buildings or other airport facilities
located thereon.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5)
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Fire Department
   
32.01   Volunteer Fire Department
   
32.02   Chief; powers and duties
   
32.03   Other Department personnel
   
32.04   New members
   
32.05   Bylaws
   
32.06   Meetings
   
32.07   Reimbursement
   
32.08   Firefighters’ Relief and Pension Fund
Emergency Management Organization
   
32.20   Short title
   
32.21   Definitions
   
32.22   Composition of Office of Emergency Management
   
32.23   Emergency Management Director
   
32.24   Local emergencies
   
32.25   Non-liability of town
   
32.26   Receipt of aid
   
32.27   Violation
   
32.28   Town-County Emergency Management Organization
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The town shall have a Volunteer Fire Department, which has not more
than two full-time salaried firefighters, and it shall be comprised of not less
than eight, nor more than 25, volunteer firefighters.
   (B)   A volunteer firefighter shall be considered as one who is enrolled as
a member of the Fire Department and who serves in said capacity without
receiving a regular salary.
   (C)   All appointments of members of the Fire Department are subject to the
original approval of the town’s Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The Fire Department shall abide by and be subject to the rules and
regulations set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 2014-1, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 32.02 CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief shall be the head of the Department, subject to the laws of
the state, ordinances of the town and the rules and regulations herein adopted.
   (B)   The Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the Department, and the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him or her.
   (C)   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
Department the fire hydrants, cisterns and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year.
   (D)   The Chief shall maintain a library on file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members.
   (E)   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the Department.
   (G)   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause and, in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify
the proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future
use in the case.
   (H)   (1)   The Chief shall file the appropriate activity report forms with
the office of the state’s Fire Marshal in Oklahoma City on an annual basis.
      (2)   The activity report forms shall be designed by the state’s Fire
Marshal and shall include, but not be limited to, the amount of property and
vehicle fire loss, types of fires, inspections and investigations.
      (3)   The report shall include notification of all fire related civilian
deaths and injuries in the respective jurisdiction and of firefighter deaths in
the line of duty and of firefighter injuries in the line of duty requiring the
services of a hospital or physician, or both.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 32.03 OTHER DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Assistant Chief. In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on
duty shall command the Department and be held responsible therefor in all
respects with the full powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
   (B)   Company officers. The company officers shall be selected upon their
ability to meet the foregoing requirements and the following:
      (1)   Their knowledge of firefighting;
      (2)   Their ability to be leaders; and
      (3)   Their knowledge of firefighting equipment.
   (C)   Secretary-Treasurer. One member elected by the Fire Department shall
be Secretary-Treasurer. His or her duties shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      (2)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      (3)   Collecting any monies due the Department by the members.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 32.04 NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment.
   (B)   New volunteer members, upon completion of their probation period, must
be approved by 100% of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 32.05 BYLAWS.
   (A)   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   (B)   They are required to be present at all regular meetings, call meetings
and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   (C)   There shall be at least two business meetings each month.
   (D)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession
or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be expelled from
the Fire Department rolls.
   (E)   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the Chief.
   (F)   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him or her will be expelled.
   (G)   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be expelled from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of the rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; and/or
      (5)   Conviction of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5)
§ 32.06 MEETINGS.
   The Fire Department shall meet on the second and fourth Thursdays of each
month at 7:00 p.m. or as filed each year with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6)
§ 32.07 REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The members of the Fire Department shall be reimbursed at the
Fire Chief’s discretion and with Town Board approval for each town fire.
      (2)   In addition, the Fire Chief shall be reimbursed $30 for each
meeting attended, and member volunteer firefighters shall be reimbursed $20 for
each meeting.
   (B)   The reimbursement is to cover personal communication devices and other
out-of-pocket expenses while engaged in the business of extinguishing fires and
training as volunteer firefighters for the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 32.08 FIREFIGHTERS’ RELIEF AND PENSION FUND.
   (A)   Board of Trustees. There is hereby created a Board of Trustees of the
Firefighters’ Relief and Pension Fund of the town, with membership,
organization, powers, duties and functions as prescribed by 11 O.S. §§ 49-103
et seq., and as may be provided by any later laws relating to said Board.
   (B)   Operation of Fund. The Firefighters’ Relief and Pension Fund shall be
operated in accordance with state law relating to the funds, and pensions and
other benefits shall be paid as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
§ 32.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Emergency Management Ordinance of the
Town of Seiling, Oklahoma”.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 32.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparations for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions other than functions for which primary responsibilities are
assigned elsewhere by federal, state, or local law or ordinance, to protect the
public peace, health and safety, and to preserve lives and property, in the
town, during any emergency resulting from enemy attack, sabotage or other
hostile action, or from any flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm
or other catastrophe in or near the town, and involving imminent or actual
peril to life and property in the town. These functions include administration,
organization, planning, recruiting, training, education, information, welfare
service, medical service, health service, transportation service,
communications service, relief service, police service, warden service, fire
service, rescue service, street and sewer service, utility service, general
engineering service, plant protection service, supply service, mutual aid,
mobile support, evacuation and all other functions necessary or incidental to
the preparation for carrying out the foregoing functions.
   ENEMY-CAUSED EMERGENCY. Any state of emergency caused by actual or impending
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, anywhere within the United States,
and involving imminent peril to lives and property in the town. Such emergency
shall be deemed to exist only when the Mayor of the town shall so declare by
public proclamation. Such emergency shall be deemed to continue to exist until
the Mayor shall declare its termination by resolution.
   NATURAL EMERGENCY. Any state of emergency caused by any actual or impending
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm or other catastrophe in or
near the town, and involving imminent peril to lives and property in the town.
Such emergency shall be deemed to exist and to be terminated under the same
conditions as prescribed for an enemy-caused emergency.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
§ 32.22 COMPOSITION OF OFFICE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established, within the executive branch of the town
government, the town’s Office of Emergency Management.
   (B)   This office shall consist of:
      (1)   An emergency management advisory committee consisting of the Mayor
as Chair, and five other members appointed by the town’s Board of Trustees and
serving at its pleasure or until the repeal of this subchapter. The committee
shall elect from among its members a Vice Chair and a Secretary. Except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter, the committee shall function in an
advisory capacity. The committee shall serve without compensation; and
      (2)   A Director of Emergency Management, who shall be appointed by the
Mayor or Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 32.23 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Qualifications. The Emergency Management Director (EMD) shall meet the
qualifications promulgated by the state’s Department of Emergency Management.
The minimum qualifications include:
      (1)   U.S. citizenship;
      (2)   High school diploma or equivalent;
      (3)   Valid Oklahoma driver’s license;
      (4)   Social Security number;
      (5)   Has not been convicted of a felony in Oklahoma; and
      (6)   Within one year of appointment, must complete basic emergency
management training provided by the state’s Department of Emergency Management.
   (B)   Background check. Prior to employment, the town shall obtain a name
based background search by the state’s Bureau of Investigation to determine if
the EMD has been convicted of a felony.
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The EMD shall report directly to the Mayor and shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of the local
organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of
Mayor or town’s Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The EMD shall be responsible for all aspects of emergency
management in the town including: conducting a hazard analysis detailing risks
and vulnerabilities; annually updating the existing all hazard emergency
operations plan (EOP); conducting and arranging for necessary training of all
relevant personnel; conducting annual exercises to evaluate the plan, managing
resources, determining shortfalls in equipment, personnel and training,
revising the EOP as necessary; establishing and maintaining an office of
emergency management, communications, warnings, conducting or supervising
damage assessment and other predisaster and postdisaster related duties.
      (3)   The Fire Department, law enforcement and other first response
agencies shall notify the EMD of all significant events occurring in the town.
The EMD shall promptly report significant events to the state’s Department of
Emergency Management.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 32.24 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Organization shall perform emergency
management functions within the territorial limits of the town and, in
addition, shall conduct such functions outside of such territorial limits as
may be required pursuant to the Emergency Management Act, 6 U.S.C. § 313.
   (B)   (1)   In carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, when any
disaster, as defined in 63 O.S. § 683.3, occurs, the town shall have the
authority to declare a local emergency and the power to enter into contracts
and incur obligations necessary to combat such disaster, protecting the health
and safety of persons and property, and providing emergency assistance to the
victims of such disaster.
      (2)   The town is authorized to exercise the powers vested under this
section in light of the exigencies of the extreme emergency situation without
regard to time-consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law,
excepting mandatory constitutional requirements, pertaining to the performance
of public work, entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the
employment of temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase of
supplies and materials and the appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 32.25 NON-LIABILITY OF TOWN.
   Neither the town, nor any officer or member of the Emergency Management
Organization provided in this subchapter, shall be liable for personal injury
or property damage sustained by any person appointed or action as a volunteer
emergency management worker or member of any agency engaged in emergency
management activity prior to or during either an enemy caused or natural
emergency; nor shall the town or any such officer or member be liable for the
death or injury of any persons or damage to property resulting from such
emergency management activity prior to or during either an enemy- caused or a
natural emergency.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 32.26 RECEIPT OF AID.
   Whenever the federal government, or the state, or any person, firm or
corporation shall offer to the town any services, supplies, materials or funds,
by way of gift, grant or loan, for purposes of emergency management, the town’s
Board of Trustees may accept such offer and may authorize the EMD to receive
same subject to the terms of the offer and the rules and regulations, if any,
of the agency making the offer.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7)
§ 32.27 VIOLATION.
   Any person in the town violating any of the provisions of this subchapter or
who shall fail to carry out any of the provisions of this subchapter or comply
herewith or with the orders, rules or regulations made under the authority
hereof shall, upon conviction, be punishable by a fine not to exceed the
maximum provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8)
§ 32.28 TOWN-COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   Nothing herein is intended to or shall prevent, hinder or prohibit the town
from entering an agreement with the Board of County Commissioners for the
establishment of a joint town-county emergency management organization, such
agreement and joint organization being specifically authorized.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9)
CHAPTER 33: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Scope; conflicting provisions
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Jurisdiction
   
33.04   Judge
   
33.05   Change of venue not allowed
   
33.06   Chief of Police
   
33.07   Court Clerk
   
33.08   Town Attorney
   
33.09   Rules of the Court
   
33.10   Style of prosecutions; complaints and verifications
   
33.11   Traffic Violations Bureau; traffic fines
   
33.12   Summons
   
33.13   Warrant of arrest
   
33.14   Arraignment
   
33.15   Trial and judgment procedures
   
33.16   Enforcement by imprisonment; inability to pay
   
33.17   Witness fees
   
33.18   Acquittal
   
33.19   Suspension or deferral of judgment or costs; administrative fee
   
33.20   Costs and fees
Arrest and Bail Procedures
   
33.35   Residents, non-residents; procedure
   
33.36   Amount and conditions of bail
   
33.37   Traffic violations
   
33.38   Release on personal recognizance; conditions
   
33.39   Pleas
   
33.40   Records and notices
   
33.41   Arrest warrant
   
33.42   Arraignment
   
33.43   Juveniles
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 SCOPE; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the
Municipal Court of the incorporated town as put into operation by resolution
duly passed on 1-6-1969, and filed in accordance with law, as authorized by 11
O.S. §§ 27-101 and 27-131.
   (B)   To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of any other ordinance of the town, the provisions of this
chapter shall control. The Court shall be operative on and after 1-13-1969.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force and law
enforcement personnel of the town.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town, including any deputy or
member of the office staff of the Clerk-Treasurer while performing duties of
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the town.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Trustees.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any Acting Judge or
Alternate Judge thereof, as provided by the statutes of the state and this
chapter.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The District Court Judicial District of the State of
Oklahoma, Dewey County.
   TOWN. The Town of Seiling, Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 33.03 JURISDICTION.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the town is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the Court in accordance with
applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 33.04 JUDGE.
   (A)   Qualifications. There shall be one Judge of the Court. A Judge need
not be a licensed attorney at law, but, if not, he or she must be a resident of
the town, of the age of 21 years, possessed of good moral character. A Judge
who is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in other courts,
but he or she shall not accept employment inconsistent with his or her duties
as Judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected with
cases within the jurisdiction of the Court pending therein or which might
become the subject of proceedings therein.
   (B)   Term of Judge. The official term of the Judge shall be two years,
expiring on the first Monday of May in each odd-numbered year. Each Judge,
unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall serve until his or her successor
is appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Alternate Judge. There may be appointed, for each judge of the Court,
an Alternate Judge, possessed of the same qualifications as the Judge. His or
her appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
Judge. He or she shall sit as Acting Judge of the Court in any case if the
Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as Judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as Judge in the case.
   (D)   Appointment of Judges and Alternate Judges.
      (1)   Judges and Alternate Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the consent of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in
writing to the governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled
meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and
shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (2)   The governing body may decide upon the proposed appointment by a
majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure of decision upon a
proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly
scheduled meeting of the governing body, unless the Mayor, in writing,
withdraws the proposed appointment.
   (E)   Emergency appointments. If, at any time, there is no Judge or
Alternate Judge, duly appointed and qualified, available to sit as Judge, the
Mayor shall appoint some person, possessing the qualifications required by this
chapter for the Judge, who shall preside as Acting Judge over the Court in the
disposition of pending matters until such time as a Judge or Alternate Judge
shall be available.
   (F)   Compensation.
      (1)   Judge. A Judge, other than an Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge,
shall receive a minimum monthly salary of an agreed upon amount specified by
contract.
      (2)   Alternate or Acting Judge. An Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge
shall be paid same for each day devoted to the performance of his or her
duties; except that, for any month, the total payment so calculated shall not
exceed the salary of the Judge in whose stead he or she sits. An Alternate or
Acting Judge who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount specified in
division (F)(1) above as the salary of the Judge in whose stead he or she sits.
   (G)   Removal from office.
      (1)   Removal for cause. Judges shall be subject to removal from office
by the governing body for the causes prescribed by the Constitution and laws of
the state for the removal of public officers.
      (2)   Filing of petition.
         (a)   Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the filing of a
verified written petition, setting forth facts sufficient to constitute one or
more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and filed by:
            1.   The Mayor; or
            2.   Twenty five or more qualified electors of the town.
         (b)   In the latter event, verification may be executed by one or more
of the petitioners.
      (3)   Hearing; notice. The governing body shall set a date for hearing
the matter, and shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the
petition, to be served personally upon the Judge at least ten days before the
hearing. At the hearing, the Judge shall be entitled:
         (a)   To representation by counsel;
         (b)   To present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against
him or her; and
         (c)   To have all evidence against him or her presented in open
hearing.
      (4)   Procedures. So far as they can be made applicable, the provisions
of the state’s Administrative Procedure Act, being 75 O.S. §§ 250 et seq.,
governing individual proceedings shall govern removal proceedings hereunder.
Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes by a majority
of all members of the governing body in favor of such removal.
   (H)   Vacancy in office.
      (1)   A vacancy in the Office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         (a)   Dies;
         (b)   Resigns;
         (c)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         (d)   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
      (2)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term upon the same
procedure as an original appointment is made.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 2-14-2011; Ord. 2020-2, passed 6-8-
2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 75 O.S. §§ 309 through 317
§ 33.05 CHANGE OF VENUE NOT ALLOWED.
   (A)   In prosecutions before the Court, no change of venue shall be allowed,
but the Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his or her
disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from sitting under the terms,
conditions and procedure provided by law for courts of record.
   (B)   In the event of an ethical disqualification by a Municipal Judge, the
Municipal Judge may appoint, on a case-by-case basis, a sitting municipal judge
in another municipality within the same county or an adjacent county to act as
a special judge for the purposes of hearing the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
§ 33.06 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All writs of process of the Court shall be directed, in his or her official
title, to the Chief of Police of the town, who shall be the principal officer
of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-6)
§ 33.07 COURT CLERK.
   (A)   Duties. The Court Clerk shall:
      (1)   Assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the Court and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers;
      (2)   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the Court and enter
all pleadings, processes and proceedings in the dockets of the Court;
      (3)   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the Court as the Judge shall direct;
      (4)   Receive and receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits and sums of
money payable to the Court; and
      (5)   (a)   Pay to the treasury of the town, all moneys so received by
him or her, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be
disbursed by him or her for special purposes. All moneys paid to the treasury
shall be placed in the Court Fund of the town.
         (b)   Such moneys may then be transferred to such other funds as the
governing body may direct, and they shall be used in the operation of the
municipal government in accordance with the budgetary arrangements governing
the fund in which it is placed.
   (B)   Bond. The Clerk of the Court shall give bond in the form provided by
11 O.S. § 27-111. When executed, said bond shall be submitted to the governing
body for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of
the town and retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-7)
§ 33.08 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Serve as prosecuting officer. The Attorney for the town, or his or her
duly designated assistant, shall be the prosecuting officer of the Court.
   (B)   Duties. The Town Attorney shall:
      (1)   Prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of the town; and
      (2)   Be authorized, in his or her discretion, to prosecute and resist
appeals and proceedings in error, and review from the Municipal Court to any
other courts of the state and to represent the town in all proceedings arising
out of manners in the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-8)
§ 33.09 RULES OF THE COURT.
   (A)   Rules prescribed. The Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the
laws of the state and with the ordinances of the town, for the proper conduct
of the business of the court.
   (B)   Enforcement of rules. Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments
made by the judge or by the Court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or
imprison for contempt committed as to him or her while holding court, or
committed against process issued by him or her, in the same manner and to the
same extent as the district courts of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-9)
§ 33.10 STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS; COMPLAINTS AND VERIFICATIONS.
   All prosecutions for violation of ordinances of this town shall be styled
“The Incorporated Town of Seiling v. (naming defendant or defendants)”. Except
as provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing of a
written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint and
setting forth concisely the offense charged. All prosecutions commenced in the
Municipal Court shall be by complaint which shall be subscribed by the person
making the complaint and shall be verified before a Judge, the Court Clerk, a
Deputy Court Clerk or a police officer; provided that, a police officer may
commence a prosecution for a municipal traffic violation by his or her
signature upon the complaint without verification. However, no warrant for
arrest shall be issued until a complaint has been approved by the Town Attorney
or the Judge of the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-10)
§ 33.11 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; TRAFFIC FINES.
   (A)   Bureau established. A Traffic Violations Bureau is hereby established
as a division of the Office of the Clerk of the Court, to be administered by
the Clerk, or by subordinates designated by him or her for that purpose.
   (B)   Traffic fines.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, persons who are cited
for violations of one of the traffic regulatory ordinances of the town shall be
fined an amount not to exceed $500, plus costs and assessments.
      (2)   The fine for parking and speeding violations in the town shall not
exceed $200.
   (C)   Payment or non-payment of fine. The Court may adopt rules to carry
into effect this section. Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute
a final determination of the cause against the defendant. If a defendant who
has elected to pay a fine under this section fails to do so, prosecution shall
proceed under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-11) (Ord. 2008-10, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 33.12 SUMMONS.
   (A)   Issuance. Upon filing of a complaint charging violation of an
ordinance, the Judge, unless he or she determines to issue a warrant for
arrest, or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has
been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming
the person charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence, if
known, stating the offense with which he or she is charged and giving him or
her notice to answer the charge in the Court on a day certain after the summons
is served upon him or her containing a provision for the official return of the
summons, and including such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   (B)   Service. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the
defendant personally. If he or she fails to appear and to answer the summons
within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest,
as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-12)
§ 33.13 WARRANT OF ARREST.
   (A)   Warrant. Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the town,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by endorsement by the Town Attorney or
by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest.
   (B)   Execution of warrant. It shall be the duty of the aforesaid Marshal,
personally, or through a duly constituted member of the County Sheriff’s
office, or through any other persons lawfully authorized so to act, to execute
said warrant as promptly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-13)
§ 33.14 ARRAIGNMENT.
   (A)   Upon making his or her appearance before the Court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The Judge, or the Attorney of the town, shall read the
complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his or her legal rights,
including the right of trial by jury, if available, and of the consequences or
conviction, and ask him or her whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty.
   (B)   If the defendant pleads guilty, the Court may proceed to judgment and
sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent disposition. If the plea is
not guilty and the case is not for jury trial, the Court may proceed to try the
case or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-15)
§ 33.15 TRIAL AND JUDGMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Postponement. Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   Presence at trial. The defendant must be present at the trial.
   (C)   Trial procedure. In all trials, as to matters not covered in this
chapter, or by the statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules
duly promulgated by the Supreme Court of the state, the procedure applicable in
trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that
they can be made effective.
   (D)   Judgment of Court. If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted
after trial, the Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within
the limits prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly. Such judgment shall be entered by the Judge on the Court docket.
The Judge may, in his or her discretion, allow additional time of up to six
months in which to pay the fine and Court costs.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-16)
§ 33.16 ENFORCEMENT BY IMPRISONMENT; INABILITY TO PAY.
   (A)   Whenever any person is convicted in Municipal Court of a municipal
ordinance violation, the Court may order the defendant to a term of community
service or remedial action in lieu of a fine.
   (B)   If the defendant fails to perform the required community service or if
the conditions of community service are violated, the Judge may impose
suspension of driver’s license and/or cause an arrest warrant to be issued at
an additional cost.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-17)
§ 33.17 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Witnesses in any proceeding in the Court, other than the peace
officers, shall be entitled to $20 per each day of attendance, plus $0.15 for
each mile actually and necessarily traveled in going to and returning from the
place of attendance if their residences are outside the limits of the town.
However, no witness shall receive fees or mileage in more than one case for the
same period of time or the same travel.
   (B)   A defendant seeking subpoena witnesses must deposit with the Clerk a
sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for each
witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an indigent
defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
      (1)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      (2)   The defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
      (3)   The testimony of said witnesses is material; and
      (4)   Their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her proper
defense.
   (C)   In such cases, the fees of such witness shall be paid by the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-18)
§ 33.18 ACQUITTAL.
   If a judgment is of acquittal and the defendant is not to be detained for
any other legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-19)
§ 33.19 SUSPENSION OR DEFERRAL OF JUDGMENT OR COSTS; ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   (A)   The Judge of the Municipal Court imposing a judgment and sentence, at
his or her discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce or suspend or defer the
imposition of such sentence or any part thereof, and to authorize probation for
a period not to exceed six months from the date of sentence, under such terms
or conditions as the judge may specify. Procedures relating to suspension of
the judgment or costs, or both, shall be as provided in 11 O.S. § 27-123. In
the event the defendant’s sentence is deferred, upon completion of the
applicable probation term, the defendant shall be discharged without a Court
judgment of guilt, and the verdict, judgment of guilty or plea of guilty shall
be expunged from the record and said charge dismissed with prejudice to any
further action. Upon a finding of the Court that the conditions of probation of
the deferred sentence have been violated, the Municipal Judge may enter a
judgment of guilty.
   (B)   The Judge of the Municipal Court may continue or delay imposing a
judgment and sentence for a period of time not to exceed six months from the
date of sentence. At the expiration of said period of time, the Judge may allow
the Municipal Attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense.
   (C)   If a sentence is deferred, an administrative fee of not to exceed $500
may be imposed as costs in the case.
   (D)   An administrative fee of up to $250 may be assessed for any deferral
or amendment of a finding of guilty for traffic or motor vehicle offenses in
excess of 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-20) (Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 33.20 COSTS AND FEES.
   (A)   Total costs.
      (1)   Except as provided in 11 O.S. § 14-111, upon judgment of guilty
being entered, costs shall be attached to the defendant.
      (2)   Court costs shall not exceed $30, plus the fees and mileage of
witnesses, plus all statutorily required fees.
   (B)   Processing fee. Additionally, the Court Clerk may assess a special fee
of $50 for processing failure to appear notifications described in §§
33.35 through
33.43 of this chapter.
   (C)   Bail bonds. The municipal bail bond schedule is defined and described
within the appendix attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   (D)   Court costs. Court costs of $30 shall be collected on cases except for
parking, standing and seat belt violations.
   (E)   Traffic violations. All traffic violations not otherwise listed shall
be bonded for $200 and costs.
   (F)   State assessments.
      (1)   In addition to the above mentioned fines and costs, all appropriate
state assessments are required to be paid.
      (2)   The Municipal Court, in addition to fines and costs, shall assess
an equipment and training charge in the amount of $25 on each municipal
citation. Such amounts collected shall be earmarked for use within the budget
of the town’s Police Department to be used for police officer training,
equipment and capital purchases for the Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-21) (Ord. 2009-5, passed 6-8-2009; Ord. 2013-1, passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
ARREST AND BAIL PROCEDURES
§ 33.35 RESIDENTS, NON-RESIDENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   If a resident of the town is arrested by a law enforcement
officer for the violation of a traffic ordinance for which §
33.37 of this chapter does not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a
non-traffic ordinance, the officer shall immediately release said person if the
person acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it; provided, however, the
arresting officer need not release said person if it reasonably appears to the
officer that the person may cause injury to himself, herself or others or
damage to property if released, that the person will not appear in response to
the citation, or the person is arrested for an offense against a person or
property.
      (2)   If said person fails to appear in response to the citation, a
warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest and his or her appearance shall
be compelled.
      (3)   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign
a citation as provided in this division (A), he or she shall be admitted to
bail either before or after arraignment, or shall be released on personal
recognizance. The town may prescribe a fine for up to the maximum amount
authorized by courts not of record for failure of the person to have a valid
driver’s license when charged with a traffic offense.
   (B)   If a non-resident of the town is arrested by a law enforcement officer
for a violation of any ordinance for which §
33.37 of this chapter does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-14)
§ 33.36 AMOUNT AND CONDITIONS OF BAIL.
   (A)   The amount and conditions of bail granted pursuant to the provisions
of §
33.35 of this chapter shall be determined by the Judge, who shall prescribe
rules for the receipt of bail and for the release on personal recognizance.
   (B)   In the event of arrests at night, emergencies or when the Judge is not
available, a court official, the Chief of Police or his or her designated
representative may be authorized by the Judge, subject to such conditions as
shall be prescribed by the Judge, to accept a temporary cash bond in a
sufficient amount to secure the appearance of the accused.
   (C)   The cash bond shall not exceed the maximum fine provided by ordinance
for each offense charged.
   (D)   The Court official, Chief of Police or his or her designated
representative is authorized, subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed
by the Judge, to release a resident of the town on personal recognizance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-14)
§ 33.37 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person, whether
a resident of the state or a non-resident, who is arrested by a law enforcement
officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a municipal traffic ordinance,
other than an ordinance pertaining to a parking or standing traffic violation,
shall be released by the arresting officer, upon personal recognizance, if:
   (A)   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a motor
vehicle by Oklahoma, another state jurisdiction within the United States which
is a participant in the non-resident violator compact or any party jurisdiction
of the non-resident violator compact;
   (B)   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the arrested
person;
   (C)   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided for
on the citation; and
   (D)   The violation does not constitute:
      (1)   A felony;
      (2)   Negligent homicide;
      (3)   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
      (4)   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
      (5)   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver’s license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
      (6)   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
      (7)   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in divisions
(D)(1) through (D)(6) above;
      (8)   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
      (9)   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous materials.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-14)
§ 33.38 RELEASE ON PERSONAL RECOGNIZANCE; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided in §
33.37 of this chapter, the arresting officer shall:
      (1)   Designate the traffic charge;
      (2)   Record information from the arrested person’s driver’s license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver’s license, driver’s license number, issuing state
and expiration date;
      (3)   Record the motor vehicle make, model and license plate information;
      (4)   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
      (5)   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided in the citation.
   (B)   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person’s driver’s license in Oklahoma or in the
non-resident’s home state pursuant to the non-resident violator compact.
   (C)   The Court, or the Court Clerk as directed by the Court, may continue
or reschedule the date and time of arraignment upon request of the arrested
person or his or her attorney. If the arraignment is continued or rescheduled,
the arrested person shall remain on personal recognizance and written promise
to appear until such arraignment, in the same manner and with the same
consequences as if the continued or rescheduled arraignment was entered on the
citation by the arresting officer and signed by the defendant. An arraignment
may be continued or rescheduled more than one time; provided, however, the
Court shall require an arraignment to be had within a reasonable time. It shall
remain the duty of the defendant to appear for arraignment unless the citation
is satisfied, as provided in §
33.39(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-14)
§ 33.39 PLEAS.
   (A)   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he or she is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the
copy of the citation furnished to him or her or a legible copy thereof,
together with the date of the plea and his or her signature. The defendant
shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the
appropriate Court Clerk. Payment of the fine and costs may be made by personal,
cashier’s, traveler’s, certified or guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial
money order or other form of payment approved by the Court in an amount
prescribed as bail for the offense; provided, however, the defendant shall not
use currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty
or nolo contendere as provided for in this section, such plea shall be accepted
by the Court and the amount of the fine and costs shall be:
      (1)   In case of a municipal violation, as prescribed by municipal
ordinance for the violation charged; or
      (2)   In the absence of such law or ordinance, then as prescribed by the
Court.
   (B)   (1)   If, pursuant to the provisions of division (A) above, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the Court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant, and the Municipal or District Court Clerk, within
120 calendar days from the date the citation was issued by the arresting
officer or within 120 days of the Court date, shall notify the Department of
Public Safety that:
         (a)   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided in the citation;
         (b)   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         (c)   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine or made any other
arrangement with the Court to satisfy the citation; and
         (d)   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      (2)   Additionally, the Court Clerk shall request the Department of
Public Safety to either suspend the defendant’s driver’s license to operate a
motor vehicle in the state, or notify the defendant’s home state and request
suspension of the defendant’s driver’s license in accordance with the
provisions of the non-resident violator compact. Such notice and request shall
be on a form approved or furnished by the Department of Public Safety.
      (3)   The Court Clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above if, with respect to such charges:
         (a)   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed or otherwise settled the case;
         (b)   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided in this section or, if released,
was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for arraignment;
         (c)   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         (d)   A period of 120 calendar days or more has elapsed from the date
the citation was issued by the arresting officer or 120 days from the court
date.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-14)
§ 33.40 RECORDS AND NOTICES.
   (A)   The Municipal or District Court Clerk shall maintain a record of each
request for driver’s license suspension submitted to the Department of Public
Safety pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   When the Court or Court Clerk receives appropriate bail or payment of
the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes other arrangements with the
defendant or otherwise closes the case, the Court Clerk shall furnish proof
thereof to such defendant, if the defendant personally appears, or shall mail
such proof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the defendant at the
address noted on the citation or at such other address as is furnished by the
defendant.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-14)
§ 33.41 ARREST WARRANT.
   If a person arrested for a traffic violation is released upon personal
recognizance as provided in §
33.37 of this chapter, but subsequently posts bail and thereafter fails to
timely appear as provided by law, the Court may issue a warrant for the
person’s arrest and the case shall be processed as provided in 11 O.S. § 27-
118.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-14)
§ 33.42 ARRAIGNMENT.
   (A)   If the defendant is not eligible for release upon personal
recognizance as provided in §
33.37 of this chapter, or if eligible but refuses to sign a written promise to
appear, the officer shall deliver the person to an appropriate magistrate for
arraignment, and the Magistrate shall proceed as otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   If no magistrate is available, the defendant shall be placed in the
custody of the appropriate municipal or county jailor or custodian, to be held
until a magistrate is available or as otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-14)
§ 33.43 JUVENILES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a juvenile may be held in
custody pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, but shall be
incarcerated separately from any adult offender; provided, however, the
arresting officer shall not be required to:
      (1)   Place a juvenile into custody as provided in this subchapter; or
      (2)   Place any other traffic offender into custody:
         (a)   Who is injured, disabled or otherwise incapacitated;
         (b)   If custodial arrest may require impoundment of a vehicle
containing livestock, perishable cargo, or items requiring special maintenance
or care; or
         (c)   If extraordinary circumstances exist which, in the judgment of
the arresting officer, custodial arrest should not be made.
   (B)   In such cases, the arresting officer may designate the date and time
for arraignment on the citation and release the person. If the person fails to
appear without good cause shown, the Court may issue a warrant for the person’s
arrest.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to:
      (1)   Create any duty on the part of the officer to release a person from
custody;
      (2)   Create any duty on the part of the officer to make any inquiry or
investigation relating to any condition which may justify release under this
section; or
      (3)   Create any liability upon any officer, or the state or any
political subdivision thereof, arising from the decision to release or not to
release such person from custody pursuant to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-14)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Regulations established
   
34.02   General and special elections
   
34.03   Conduct of elections
   
34.04   Candidates
   
34.05   Notice of election
   
34.06   Ballot
   
34.07   Results
   
34.08   Commencement of terms
§ 34.01 REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   Elections within the town shall be as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 34.02 GENERAL AND SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   General elections. General elections shall be held on the first
Tuesday in April every two years, beginning in 1975. Candidates shall be
nominated at large and elected at large.
   (B)   Special elections. Special elections such as bond elections shall be
decided by the Board of Trustees as governed by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
§ 34.03 CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   Pursuant to 11 O.S. § 16-302, the town hereby declares that it shall not be
governed by the state’s Town Meeting Act, being 11 O.S. §§ 16-301 et seq., as a
means of electing its officers and deciding initiative and referendum questions
since the population of the town is less than 1,000 residents as of the 2000
federal census. The town shall hereby elect its officers and decide initiative
and referendum questions through elections conducted by the county’s Election
Board, pursuant to 11 O.S. §§ 16-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
§ 34.04 CANDIDATES.
   (A)   Qualifications. A qualified elector shall be qualified as a candidate
for Trustee or Clerk- Treasurer.
   (B)   Filing period. The filing period shall be from 8:00 a.m. the first
Monday in February until 5:00 p.m. the next succeeding Wednesday.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4)
§ 34.05 NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   The notice of election to the Board of Trustees shall state the number of
Trustees to be elected for four-year terms and the number of Trustees to be
elected to fill unexpired terms, if any. Candidates for the office of Trustee
shall state on the declaration of candidacy the term of the office being
sought.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
§ 34.06 BALLOT.
   The ballot shall state the number of offices of Trustees to be filled for
each designated term and that the voters shall vote for the number of offices
to be filled.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-6)
§ 34.07 RESULTS.
   The candidate who receives a plurality of the votes cast for the Office of
Trustee for the designated term shall be elected for that designated term. If
more than one Office of Trustee is to be filled for a designated term, the
candidates receiving the largest pluralities shall be elected to those offices.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-7)
§ 34.08 COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS.
   Town officers shall take office the second Monday following the general
election.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-8)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Telephone exchange fee and service charge
   
35.02   Competitive bidding
Taxation
   
35.15   Sales tax
   
35.16   Use tax
   
35.17   Hotel/motel lodging tax
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and cited as the “Seiling Telephone
Exchange Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
   (B)   Fee and charge imposed; amount. There is hereby levied an annual
inspection fee and service charge upon each entity operating a telephone
exchange in the town in an amount equal to 5% of the gross revenues for each
current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within
the limits of the town to compensate the town for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulation and police control of the construction of lines and equipment
of such telephone company in the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2)
   (C)   Due date; disposition of moneys. The inspection fee and charge shall
be due and payable to the town on or before March 1 of each year and shall be
paid into and appropriated and expended from the General Revenue Fund of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3)
   (D)   Charge in lieu of other license tax. During continued substantial
compliance with the terms of this section by the owner of any telephone
exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and continue to be in lieu of all
concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license, privilege and permit fees or
taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes; provided, however, that, it is
not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing arrangement whereby
the town is permitted to use underground conduit, duct space or pole contacts
of the company for the fire alarm and/or police call systems of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4)
   (E)   Failure to pay fee and charge. Any person, firm or corporation failing
or refusing to pay such inspection fee and service charge when levied shall be
regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from the town and, in addition
thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or corporation
for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same, including
attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5)
   (F)   Lien imposed. The inspection fee and service charge so imposed shall
constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets located within the town of
any person, firm or corporation engaged in the exchange telephone transmission
service within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6)
   (G)   Provisions cumulative. The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and
in addition to any and all other taxing provisions of ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7)
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 35.02 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   The town’s requirements regarding the Competitive Bidding Act of 1974 are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2022-8, passed 12-12-2022)
TAXATION
§ 35.15 SALES TAX.
   (A)   Taxes imposed; rates; effective dates; purposes. The following town
sales taxes, in the total amount of 4%, shall be imposed and effective as
indicated, unless otherwise extended by a vote of the people. Said taxes have
been approved by a majority of the registered voters of the town voting on same
in elections conducted in the manner prescribed by 11 O.S. § 16-112, and any
amendments thereto:
      (1)   Effective 10-1-1976, 2% to provide revenues for the support of the
functions of the municipal government of the town and the retirement of the
public works authorities’ hospital improvements and revenue bond;
      (2)   Effective 4-5-2016, an additional 1% exercise tax levied by Ord.
1996-2 shall continue to be levied and collected until otherwise ordered by the
registered, qualified voters of the town voting at an election called and held
for that purpose. The purpose of the 1% sales tax continued to be levied under
this division shall be equipping, operating and maintaining the municipal
healthcare facility of the town, for the purpose of providing healthcare
services and medical attention to the citizens of the town and surrounding
rural areas; and
      (3)   Effective 8-27-2024, levying an additional 1% sales tax to provide
revenues for the purpose of operating, maintaining, equipping, repairing and
improving the nursing home facility of the town and by paying the principal of
and interest on indebtedness incurred on behalf of the town for said purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-1)
   (B)   Administration of tax by state. The town has entered into an agreement
with the state for the administration of the tax imposed in this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-2A-2)
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 7-23-2004; Ord. 2005-3, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 2006-1,
passed 9-11-2006; Ord. 2014-4, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 2016-1, passed 1-11-2016;
Ord. 2024-2, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 35.16 USE TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed; rate. There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by
every person storing, using or otherwise consuming within the town tangible
personal property purchased or brought into the town, an excise tax on the
storage, use or other consuming within the town of such property at the rate of
4% of the purchase price of such property.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-1)
   (B)   Administration of tax by state. The town has entered into an agreement
with the state for the administration of the tax imposed in this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-2B-2)
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 35.17 HOTEL/MOTEL LODGING TAX.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and cited as the “Seiling Hotel/
motel Lodging Tax Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      HOTEL or MOTEL. Any building or buildings, structures or other facility
in which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations in
which five or more rooms are used for the accommodation of guests, whether such
rooms are in one or several structures. The term shall include hotels,
apartment hotels, motels, tourist homes, houses or courts, lodging houses,
inns, rooming houses, dormitory space where bed space is rented to individuals
or groups, apartments not occupied by permanent residents, Airbnbs and
recreational vehicles (RVs) strictly set up and used as lodging and all other
facilities where rooms or sleeping facilities or space are furnished for a
consideration. The term shall not include hospitals, sanatoriums or nursing
homes.
      OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession,
of any room or rooms in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the
furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and
possession of the room or rooms.
      OCCUPANT. A person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the
right to the use or possession of, any room or rooms in a hotel under any
lease, concession, permit, right to access, license to use or other agreement.
      OPERATOR. Any and all persons operating a hotel(s) or motel(s) in the
town, including, but not limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee,
mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating such
hotel or motel.
      RENT. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
      RETURN. Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
      ROOM. Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel
which are available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other
than a place of assembly. (As used herein, “place of assembly” means a room or
space which is capable of being occupied by 75 or more persons and which is
used for educational, recreational or amusement purposes and shall include
dance halls, cabarets, nightclubs, restaurants, any room or space for public or
private banquets, feasts, socials, card parties or weddings, lodge and meeting
halls or rooms, skating rinks, gymnasiums, swimming pools, billiard, bowling
and table tennis rooms, halls or rooms used for public or private catering
purposes, funeral parlors, markets, recreational rooms, concert halls,
broadcasting studios and all other places of similar type of occupancy.)
      TAX. The tax levied pursuant to this section.
      TOWN. The Town of Seiling, Oklahoma.
      TOWN CLERK-TREASURER. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Seiling,
Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-2)
   (C)   Tax imposed; rate. There is hereby levied an excise tax of 5% upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all rent received for every
occupancy of a room or rooms in a hotel or motel in the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-3)
   (D)   Operator duties.
      (1)   Tax on bills. The operator shall separately designate, charge and
show the tax on all bills, statements, receipts or any other evidence of
charges or payment of rent for occupancy issued or delivered by the operator.
      (2)   Collect tax. Each operator shall be solely responsible for the
collection of the tax from the occupant and shall be liable to the town for the
tax.
      (3)   Records kept. Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy
and of all rent paid, charged or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon on
such forms as the town’s Clerk-Treasurer may require. Such records shall be
available for inspection and examination at any time upon demand by the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer, or a duly authorized agent or employee of the town, and shall
be preserved for a period of three years from the date thereof; except that,
the town’s Clerk-Treasurer may consent to their destruction within that period
or may require that they be kept longer.
      (4)   Returns.
         (a)   Every operator shall file with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer a
return of occupancy and of rents and of the taxes payable thereon for the
period ending June 30, September 30, December 31 and March 31 of each year from
the effective date hereof. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer may permit or require
returns to be made by shorter or longer periods and upon such dates as he or
she may specify.
         (b)   The form of return shall be prescribed by the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer and shall contain such information as he or she may deem necessary
for the proper administration of this section. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer may
require amended returns to be filed within 20 days after notice and to contain
the information specified in the notice.
      (5)   Payment of tax. At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of
rents, each operator shall pay to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer the taxes imposed
by this section upon the rents included in such return, as well as all other
moneys collected by the operator acting or purporting to act under the
provisions of this section. All the taxes for the period for which a return is
required to be filed shall be due from the operator and payable to the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer on or before the date fixed for the filing of the return for
such period without regard to whether a return is filed or whether the return
which is filed correctly shows the amount of rents and the taxes due thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-4)
   (E)   Bond requirements. When the town’s Clerk-Treasurer believes that any
operator is about to cease business, leave the state or remove or dissipate
assets, or for any other similar reason he or she deems it necessary in order
to protect revenues under this section, he or she may require such operator to
file with the town a bond issued by a surety company authorized to transact
business in the state in such amount as the town’s Clerk-Treasurer may fix to
secure the payment of any tax or penalties and interest due, or which may
become due from such operator. In the event that the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
determines that an operator is to file such bond, he or she shall give notice
to such operator specifying the amount of bond required. The operator shall
file such bond within five days after the giving of such notice unless within
such five days the operator shall request in writing a hearing before the
town’s Board of Trustees or its designee, at which the propriety and amount of
the bond shall be determined by the town’s Board of Trustees or its designee.
Such determination shall be final and shall be complied with within 15 days
thereafter. In lieu of such bond, securities approved by the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer, or cash in such amount as he or she may prescribe, may be deposited
with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, who may, at any time after five days’ notice
to the depositor, apply them to any tax and/or any penalties due, and for such
purpose, the securities may be sold at private or public sale.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-5)
   (F)   Assessment and determination of tax.
      (1)   If a return required by this section is not filed, or if a return,
when filed, is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be
assessed by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer from such information as may be
obtainable and, if necessary, the tax may be estimated on the basis of external
indices, such as number of rooms, location, scale of rents, comparable rents,
types of accommodations and services, number of employees or other factors;
provided, however, such assessment shall in no event exceed the amount of tax
that was due and payable, and such assessment procedure shall not be performed
in an arbitrary and capricious manner.
      (2)   Written notice of such assessment shall be given to the person
liable for the collection and payment of the tax. Such assessment shall finally
and irrevocably fix and determine the tax unless the person against whom it is
assessed shall apply in writing to the town’s Board of Trustees or its designee
for a hearing or unless the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, on his or her own motion,
shall reassess the same. After such hearing, the town’s Board of Trustees or
its designee shall give written notice of its determination to the person
against whom the tax is assessed, and such determination shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-6)
   (G)   Delinquent payments; interest. The tax levied by this section shall be
due and payable at the time filing of the returns provided for in this section
is required. All taxes not paid within five days from the time they become due,
shall be delinquent. If any tax levied by this section becomes delinquent, the
person responsible and liable for such tax shall pay interest on such unpaid
tax at the rate of 1.5% per month on the unpaid balance from the date of
delinquency.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-7)
   (H)   Refunds.
      (1)   Procedure. 
         (a)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall refund or credit any tax
erroneously collected if written application to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer for
such refund shall be made within two years from the date of payment thereof.
For like causes, and in the same period, a refund may be so made upon the
initiative and the order of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
         (b)   Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated
in writing. Such application may also be made by the person who has collected
and paid such tax to the town’s Clerk- Treasurer; provided that, the
application is made within two years of the payment by the occupant to the
operator, but no refund of money shall be made to the operator until he or she
has repaid to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is
made.
         (c)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer, in lieu of any refund required to be
made, may allow credit therefor on payment due from the applicant.
      (2)   Determination and hearing. Upon application for a refund, the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such
investigation as he or she deems necessary. After making a determination as to
the refund, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall give notice thereof to the
applicant. Such determination shall be final unless the applicant, within 90
days after such notice, shall apply in writing to the town’s Board of Trustees
or its designee for a hearing. After such hearing, the town’s Board of Trustees
or its designee shall give written notice of its decision to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-8)
   (I)   Notices. Notices provided for under this section shall be deemed to
have been given when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator
or deposited in the United States mail to the last known address of the
operator.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-9)
   (J)   Remedies exclusive. The remedies provided in this section shall be
exclusive remedies available to any person for the review of tax liability
imposed by this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-10)
   (K)   Powers of Town Clerk-Treasurer. In addition to all other powers
granted to the town’s Clerk- Treasurer, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized and empowered:
      (1)   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
carrying out of this section for the purposes thereof;
      (2)   To extend for cause shown the time for filing return for the period
not exceeding 60 days; and for cause shown, to waive, remit or reduce penalties
or interest;
      (3)   To delegate the functions of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer hereunder
to an assistant or other employee or employees of the town;
      (4)   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the tax imposed
by this section, except the rate of tax;
      (5)   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and non-taxable
rents;
      (6)   To administer oaths and take affidavits in relation to any matter
or proceeding in the exercise of the powers and duties under this section; and
      (7)   To subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the
production of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent to
the performance of his or her duties hereunder and all the enforcement of this
section and to examine them in relation thereto.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-11)
   (L)   Collection permit.
      (1)   Application for permit. Every operator shall apply for a collection
permit from the town’s Clerk-Treasurer in a form prescribed by said Town Clerk-
Treasurer within ten days after the effective date hereof, or in the case of
operators commencing business or opening new hotels after such effective date,
within three days after such commencement or opening.
      (2)   Issuance of permit. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall, within five
days after such application, issue, without charge, to each operator a
collection permit empowering such operator to collect the tax from the occupant
and duplicates thereof for each additional hotel. Each collection permit or
duplicate shall state the hotel or motel to which it is applicable.
      (3)   Display of permit. The collection permit shall be permanently
displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be seen and comes to the
notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy.
      (4)   Non-transferability of permit. The permit shall be non-assignable
and non-transferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer upon the cessation of business at the hotel named, or upon its sale,
lease, assignment or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-12)
   (M)   Use of funds. All taxes collected pursuant to the provisions of this
section shall be used solely for the promotion, encouragement and development
of tourism, beneficial to the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-13)
   (N)   Records confidential. The confidential and privileged nature of the
records and files concerning the administration of the hotel/motel lodging tax
is legislatively recognized and declared, and to protect the same, the
provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the Sales Tax Law of the state, and each
subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and made fully effective and
applicable to the administration of the town hotel/motel lodging tax as if
herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-14)
   (O)   Provisions cumulative. The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and
in addition to any and all other taxing provisions of ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-16)
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 9-9-2013) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The willful failure or refusal of any operator to make reports and
remittances required in §
35.17 of this chapter, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the
purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under §
35.17 of this chapter, shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the
offending operator shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day is to be considered a separate
offense to be charged severally.
(Prior Code, § 3-2C-15) (Ord. 2013-3, passed 9-9-2013)
CHAPTER 36: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Findings
   
36.03   Establishing a covered account
   
36.04   Access to covered account information
   
36.05   Credit card payments
   
36.06   Sources and types of red flags
   
36.07   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
36.08   Updating program
   
36.09   Administration of program
   
36.10   Outside service providers
   
36.11   Consumer address issues
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, or utility account, or Municipal Court-imposed fine or costs; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefor.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew or continue credit and includes utility companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information and driver’s
license information and for a natural person, includes his, her or their Social
Security number, mother’s birth name and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the town.
   TOWN. The Town of Seiling, Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 36.02 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The town is a creditor pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   (B)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, and making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (C)   The town limits access to personal identifying information to those
employees responsible for, or otherwise involved in, opening or restoring
covered accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts. Information
provided to such employees is entered directly into the town’s computer system.
   (D)   The town determines that there is a low risk of identity theft
occurring in the following ways:
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method of
payment.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 36.03 ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   As a precondition to opening a covered account in the town, each applicant
shall provide the town with personal identifying information of the customer as
may be reasonably requested by the employee opening said account. Such
information shall be entered directly into the town’s computer system. Each
account shall be assigned an account number.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 36.04 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized town personnel.
   (B)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and/or Town Administrator
and the password changed immediately.
   (C)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential, and any request or demand for such information shall
be immediately forwarded to the town’s Clerk- Treasurer and/or Town
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 36.05 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the internet
are processed through a third-party service provider, such third-party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone or the town’s website
shall be entered directly into the customer’s account information in the
computer database.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit or debit card, or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 36.06 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity theft, and
such red flags may include:
   (A)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies or
service providers. Examples of alerts include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
      (2)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer
report;
      (3)   A notice of address discrepancy provided by a consumer reporting
agency; and
      (4)   Indications of a pattern of activity in a consumer report that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
         (a)   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         (b)   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         (c)   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect
to recently established credit relationships; or
         (d)   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
   (B)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered or
forged;
      (2)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      (3)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      (4)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution
or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check; or
      (5)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identification, such as suspicious address change.
Examples of suspicious identifying information include:
      (1)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external
information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
         (a)   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
or
         (b)   The Social Security number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the Social Security Administration’s death master file.
      (2)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer, such as a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of
birth;
      (3)   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor;
      (4)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
maildrop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity;
      (5)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other applicants
or customers;
      (6)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar
to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of applicants or customers;
      (7)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or, in response to notification, that
the application is incomplete;
      (8)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor; and
      (9)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
   (D)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples of suspicious activity include:
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
the town receives a request for the addition of authorized users on the
account;
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud; (For example: the customer fails to
make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.)
      (3)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
         (a)   Non-payment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
and
         (b)   A material change in purchasing or spending patterns.
      (4)   An account that has been inactive for a long period of time is used
(taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage
and other relevant factors);
      (5)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s account;
      (6)   The town is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements;
      (7)   The town is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s account; and
      (8)   The town is notified by a customer, law enforcement or another
person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
   (E)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to covered
accounts.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 36.07 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any town employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account, or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems that
identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the town’s
Clerk- Treasurer, who may, in his or her discretion, determine that no further
action is necessary. If the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, in his or her discretion,
determines that further action is necessary, a town employee shall perform one
or more of the following responses, as determined to be appropriate by the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed the
customer’s covered account:
         (a)   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         (b)   Close the account.
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer and
decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   Notify a debt collector within 72 hours of the discovery of likely
or probable identity theft relating to a customer account that has been sold to
such debt collector in the event that a customer’s account has been sold to a
debt collector prior to the discovery of the likelihood or probability of
identity theft relating to such account;
      (5)   Notify law enforcement, in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
      (6)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   In the event that any town employee responsible for or involved in
opening a new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible
identity theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee
shall use his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or
combination of red flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her
discretion, such employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity
theft is likely or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red
flags to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee deems that identity theft is unlikely, or that reliable information is
available to reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to
the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, who may, in his or her discretion, determine that
no further action is necessary. If the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, in his or her
discretion, determines that further action is necessary, a town employee shall
perform one or more of the following responses, as determined to be appropriate
by the town’s Clerk-Treasurer:
      (1)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      (2)   Deny the application for the new account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 36.08 UPDATING PROGRAM.
   (A)   Upon the recommendation of the Town Administrator, the town’s Board of
Trustees shall annually review and, as deemed necessary by the Board of
Trustees, update the administrative rules for the identity theft prevention
program along with any relevant red flags in order to reflect changes in risks
to customers or to the safety and soundness of the town and its covered
accounts from identity theft.
   (B)   In so doing, the town’s Board of Trustees shall consider the following
factors and exercise its discretion in amending the program:
      (1)   The town’s experiences with identity theft;
      (2)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft;
      (4)   Updates in the types of accounts that the town offers or maintains;
and
      (5)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 36.09 ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM.
   (A)   (1)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for oversight of the
program and for program implementation. The town’s Administrator is responsible
for reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag
requirements and with recommending material changes to the program, as
necessary in the opinion of the town’s Administrator, to address changing
identity theft risks and to identify new or discontinued types of covered
accounts.
      (2)   Any recommended material changes to the program shall be submitted
to the town’s Board of Trustees for consideration by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer will report to the town’s Administrator, at
least annually, on compliance with the red flag requirements. The report will
address material matters related to the program and evaluate issues such as:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of the town in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
   (C)   (1)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer is responsible for providing training
to all employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account,
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the identity
theft prevention program.
      (2)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise his or her discretion in
determining the amount and substance of training necessary.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 36.10 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the town engages a service provider to perform an activity
in connection with one or more covered accounts, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
shall exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to
ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the service provider’s
activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed
upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in
the performance of the service provider’s activities and take appropriate steps
to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 36.11 CONSUMER ADDRESS ISSUES.
   (A)   Treatment of address discrepancies.
      (1)   Pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.1, the purpose of this division (A) is
to establish a process by which the town will be able to form a reasonable
belief that a consumer report relates to the consumer about whom it has
requested a consumer credit report when the town has received a notice of
address discrepancy.
      (2)   In the event that the town receives a notice of address
discrepancy, the town employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for
the purpose of providing the municipal service or account sought by the
consumer shall perform one or more of the following activities, as determined
to be appropriate by such employee:
         (a)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
            1.   Information the town obtains and uses to verify a consumer’s
identity in accordance with the requirements of the customer information
program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. § 5318(1);
            2.   Information the town maintains in its own records, such as
applications for service, change of address notices, other customer account
records or tax records; or
            3.   Information the town obtained from third-party sources that
are deemed reliable by the relevant town employee.
         (b)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
   (B)   Furnishing address to consumer reporting agency.
      (1)   In the event that the town reasonably confirms that an address
provided by a consumer to the town is accurate, the town is required to provide
such address to the consumer reporting agency from which the town received a
notice of address discrepancy with respect to such consumer. This information
is required to be provided to the consumer reporting agency when:
         (a)   The town is able to form a reasonable belief that the consumer
report relates to the consumer about whom the town requested the report;
         (b)   The town establishes a continuing relationship with the
consumer; and
         (c)   The town regularly and in the ordinary course of business
provides information to the consumer reporting agency from which it received
the notice of address discrepancy.
      (2)   Such information shall be provided to the consumer reporting agency
as part of the information regularly provided by the town to such agency for
the reporting period in which the town establishes a relationship with the
customer.
   (C)   Methods of confirming addresses. The town employee charged with
confirming consumer addresses may, in his or her discretion, confirm the
accuracy of an address through one or more of the following methods:
      (1)   Verifying the address with the consumer;
      (2)   Reviewing the town’s records to verify the consumer’s address;
      (3)   Verifying the address through third-party sources; or
      (4)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11) (Ord. 2009-4, passed 5-11-2009)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   GAS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Mandatory use of system
   
50.03   Containers
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Chapter 90
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, except sewage and body waste, including all
meat, vegetable and fruit refuse and carcasses of small animals and fowls from
any premises within the town limits.
   PERSON. Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership or other entity.
   PREMISES. Land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft or parts
thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
   REFUSE. All solid waste, including garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Tin cans, bottles, papers, tree limbs (which shall be cut into
lengths not exceeding three feet), leaves and the like from any premises within
the town limits.
   RUBBLE. Brushwood, cardboard boxes and other bulky earthen, wooden or metal
refuse-like materials, longer, larger and/or heavier than refuse.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1)
§ 50.02 MANDATORY USE OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of
the town must use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided and
shall deposit or cause to be deposited in accordance with this chapter all
rubbish and garbage that is of such nature that it is perishable or may
decompose or may be scattered by wind or otherwise, which is accumulated on
such premises.
   (B)   To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the town, it shall
be the duty of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any
premises located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the town’s
Garbage Department at the beginning of such occupancy and request, accept and
use the garbage pick up and collection service; provided, however, that,
failure of any owner, rental agent or occupant of such premises to make such
request shall not prevent, nor in any way impair or impede, the town from
adding the address of such premises to the proper garbage collection route
records and providing service and otherwise enforcing, by appropriate action,
the regulatory measures herein prescribed any causing the fees or charges
therefor to be paid.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Required; specifications; condition. Unless otherwise furnished by a
sanitation company, under contract with the town, it shall be the duty of every
person, firm or corporation owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting any
premises or any place where garbage or rubbish accumulates to provide and at
all times maintain in good order and repair, on any said premises, a portable
container or containers for refuse which shall be made of galvanized metal or
equivalent, not easily corrodible, rodent-proof, with a tight-fitting lid which
shall not be removed, except when depositing or removing the contents of the
receptacle, and with handles on the sides, and of sufficient capacity and in
sufficient numbers to accommodate and securely keep all of the garbage and
rubbish that may accumulate between collections; provided that, each container
shall have a capacity of not less than 20 gallons, nor more than 32 gallons,
except where approved type bulk storage containers are in use; and, provided
further that, all containers shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation
of any substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would
attract flies, mosquitoes and any other insects.
   (B)   Location for collection. All containers shall be kept in a convenient
location for collection, as designated by the town authority.
   (C)   Maintenance requirements. All containers and grounds immediately
around same shall be kept in a safe and sanitary condition at all times.
   (D)   Tampering with prohibited. The meddling with refuse containers or in
any way pilfering, scattering contents or junking in any alley or street within
the town limits is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be punishable by a fine as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and each day’s failure to comply with any
such provision shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Existing connections
   
51.02   Water taps
   
51.03   Deposit required
   
51.04   Water rates
   
51.05   Sale or sharing of water
   
51.06   Theft of water
   
51.07   Tampering with, trespassing upon system
   
51.08   Secondary sources of water
   
51.09   Non-liability of town
§ 51.01 EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   All buildings or structures which are provided with municipal water for
kitchen, drinking, bathroom and culinary purposes, as of 10-11-2001, shall
continue to be so connected to municipal water at all times. Any person who
owns, rents or is in control of a building or structure, which building or
structure, as of 10-11-2001, or any time thereafter, is connected with town
water shall be deemed a customer of the utility system regardless of the water
usage or non-usage.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 51.02 WATER TAPS.
   All tapping fees shall be paid by the consumer, including all necessary
fittings and materials used in connection therewith. The town will furnish all
materials for the installation, and that cost will be billed to and paid by the
consumer.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 51.03 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to purchase water from the town
shall make a water meter deposit. Rates for water deposits are established by
the town’s Board of Trustees and are on file in the town offices for public use
and inspection. Deposits will be used as security for payment of charges for
water service and other charges related thereto which may become overdue. Any
or all of the amount deposited may be applied by the town to the payment of
such charges. Any of the amount deposited which remains to the credit of the
customer, less any amount owed to the town, shall be refunded when water
services are discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) (Ord. 2009-8, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 51.04 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Water rates; addition of rate category. Bulk water minimums shall be
applied to any user that has in his, her or their possession a fire hydrant
meter for any water usage of zero to 2,000 gallons. Regular fire hydrant rates
will apply to all water usage over 2,000 gallons.
   (B)   Penalty for failure to report monthly readings. Any customer who fails
to provide a monthly reading from the fire hydrant meter in his, her or their
possession before the twentieth day of each month will be charged a penalty of
$100. This charge will be in addition to the water use charges when the reading
is obtained.
   (C)   Cost of living adjustment on fees. Commencing 1-10-2022, and
continuing through 7-1-2022, and further continuing each subsequent July 1, the
fees charged in this chapter shall be raised by the percentage increase in the
Consumer Price Index. Other rate changes may be applied as necessary to match
costs of production and distribution.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) (Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-10-2022)
§ 51.05 SALE OR SHARING OF WATER.
   (A)   Restricted. The sale or sharing of water provided by the town by any
residential user located within or outside the town limits with any other
adjacent structure, whether permanent or temporary, including, but not limited
to, residences, recreational vehicles, travel trailers, mobile homes or other
similar structures, for more than 30 days (whether consecutive or non-
consecutive during any one-year period) is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Notice of violation. In the event any residential user violates this
section, the town shall give written notice to the occupant of the premises for
which such violation occurred, who shall be deemed the agent of the owner of
the premises for the purpose of notice, by posting or affixing such written
notice on the building or structure upon which the violation occurred,
specifying the dates of infraction and advising of the Utility Department’s
intention to terminate service on a date not less than 48 hours (exclusive of
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) after the posting or affixing of such notice.
Such notice shall also contain a statement to the effect that the owner or
occupant may request a hearing before the Town Administrator within such 48-
hour period and state the telephone number at the Town Hall where the Town
Administrator may be contacted to request such a hearing.
   (C)   Procedure for termination.
      (1)   If the violation continues to occur after notice, and in the event
no hearing before the Town Administrator has been requested, then water service
to the premises may be terminated in accordance with the notice.
      (2)   If the owner or occupant requests a hearing and the Town
Administrator determines that a violation has occurred, then water service to
the premises may be terminated in accordance with the notice.
      (3)   If the occupant, after first notice, ceases violation of this
section and within one year from the date of first notice resumes such
violation for one day or more, then the occupant shall receive a second and
final notice in accordance with division (B) above, and water service to the
premises may be terminated with or without hearing (as determined by the Town
Administrator) in accordance with the second notice.
   (D)   Restoration of service. A reconnection fee and deposit will be charged
and collected prior to restoration of service. Rates for reconnection fees and
deposits are established by the town’s Board of Trustees and are on file in the
town offices for public use and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5)
§ 51.06 THEFT OF WATER.
   (A)   Any person who, by fraud or stealth, in any way obtains water from the
water system of the town or who turns on the water service without having first
made application to the office of the town’s Public Works Authority in regular
form is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Each day water is used unlawfully constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   Each amount of water that has been obtained by a person without the
water having been permitted to go through the meter designated and placed for
such person shall be estimated by the amount used by such person during the
last month previous when the meter operated, and the person shall pay for the
same at the rate fixed by ordinance.
   (D)   In any case, where theft of water is committed, the town shall have
the right, at the expense of the owner, to install a lock for the water meter
and pit as a precaution against further theft.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 TAMPERING WITH, TRESPASSING UPON SYSTEM.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized officer or
employee of the Water Department, to alter, change or in any manner interfere
or tamper with the water meter in use by any consumer or with any other
equipment used by the town in operation of the water system.
   (B)   All main valves throughout the entire water system are for the
exclusive use of the town in making repairs, extensions and other improvements,
and no person, under any circumstances, shall use or tamper with them without
the written consent of the town official. All fire hydrants and public hydrants
of any kind are directly under the control of the town. Any person who tampers
with or secures water from any of these places in any other way than that for
which they are intended is guilty of an offense and shall be punishable
accordingly.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to loiter around, climb upon or tamper
in any way with the water tower, pressure tank, pumping station, filter plant
or other property which is a part of the water plant. No person shall loiter
about the reservoir or drainage canals, climb upon the dam, hunt, fish, use
boats on or bathe or wade in the reservoirs or drainage canals, except as
provided by ordinance. Any party or parties guilty of such shall be punishable
accordingly upon conviction.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 SECONDARY SOURCES OF WATER.
   (A)   Secondary sources generally.
      (1)   No service may be allowed from the town water mains to any premises
supplied by water from any other source unless the other source is discontinued
and the Board of Trustees grants permission and the Board of Trustees may
terminate such permission at any time. The Board of Trustees shall have the
power to prescribe reasonable regulations for the use of water from another
source on premises that has a connection with the town water system.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause a
connection to be made or to allow one to exist for any purpose whatsoever
between the town water supply and any other source of supply. Every person,
firm or corporation having any other source of water supply upon his or its
premises is required to make a customer’s declaration of non-existence of
cross-connection upon a form supplied by the Water Department before he or it
shall be permitted to obtain or continue the use of water from the town water
system.
      (3)   Town water shall be discontinued upon any premises upon which there
is found to be a connection between the town water supply and another water
supply, and such service shall not be restored until such cross-connection has
been discontinued.
   (B)   Use of water wells.
      (1)   No person shall have the right to drill any water well within the
limits of the town for any purpose other than for lawn and garden irrigation;
provided, however, in the event a person shall desire to drill a water well for
purposes other than lawn and garden irrigation and the town and/or authority is
unwilling or unable for any reason to provide said person a supply of water
commensurate with the needs of that person, said person shall make application
to the state for the drilling and use of a water well for purposes other than
lawn and garden irrigation and upon a showing to the town’s Board of Trustees
and authority that the drilling and use of the water well will not jeopardize
or otherwise interfere with the water supply of the town. The application may,
in the discretion of the Board of Trustees, be granted; provided, however, that
at such time as the town and/or authority is able and willing to provide said
person water, the town and/or authority may require said person to tie into the
water main of the town and to plug and abandon the well used by said person.
      (2)   No person shall have the right to drill a water well for domestic
use, except when the town main lines are not available to said person, in which
event, said person shall have the right to drill and use a water well for
domestic purposes only after proper application has been made, approved and a
permit for the use thereof has been issued by a competent jurisdiction. At any
time that a person, firm or corporation is connected to the town’s sanitary
sewer system, said person, firm or corporation may not be allowed to use water
well water for any other purpose than lawn and garden irrigation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 NON-LIABILITY OF TOWN.
   (A)   In case the supply of water fails, whether from natural causes or
accidents of any kind, the town shall not be liable for any damage of any kind
by reason of such failure.
   (B)   The town is merely a supplier of water delivered at the curb valve of
the consumer’s installation and is not responsible for any damage to apparatus,
equipment or other property of the consumer either from wear and tear or
inherent defects in the installation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-9)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Use of Public or Private System
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of a sewer system required
   
52.03   Use of public sewer system
   
52.04   Private sewage disposal systems
   
52.05   Inspections
Connection to Public Sewers
   
52.20   Mandatory use of public system
   
52.21   Connections outside town prohibited
   
52.22   Connection rules
   
52.23   Violations
Industrial Users; System Discharges
   
52.35   Definitions
   
52.36   Compliance with provisions
   
52.37   Use of public system required; restrictions
   
52.38   Discharges into system
   
52.39   Pretreatment or flow equalization
   
52.40   Sampling and testing
   
52.41   Industrial charges
   
52.42   User rates
   
52.43   Permit requirements
   
52.44   Entry powers
   
52.45   Termination of service
 
   
52.99   Penalty
USE OF PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SYSTEM
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   HUMAN EXCRETA. The bowel and kidney discharges of human beings.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush-type toilet which is connected with a sewer
line of sufficient capacity and so constructed as to carry away the contents at
all times or connected to a septic tank system with tile field sufficient to
absorb all liquid waste beneath the ground surface.
   SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM. A septic tank with subsurface tile system constructed
according to the minimum requirements of the state’s Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-1)
§ 52.02 USE OF A SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning property
within the town to permit the disposal of human excreta on any property owned
by such person, firm or corporation, except in a sanitary water closet or
closets connected to a sanitary sewer or septic tank system of sufficient
capacity to accommodate the occupants thereof at all times.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-2) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 USE OF PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   Every residence and building equipped with toilet facilities, in
which humans reside or are employed or congregate, shall be required to have
sanitary methods for the disposal of human excreta, namely, sanitary water
closet or closets.
      (2)   The toilets required by this subchapter shall be the sanitary water
closet type when located within 300 feet of a sanitary sewer, and connected
thereto, or a septic tank system with sufficient tile field for complete
subsurface absorption when not so located.
   (B)   No discharge of storm water, ground water, roof runoff, foundation
drainage or other subsurface drainage shall be discharged into the sanitary
sewerage system of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-3) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Private sewage system. When a public sanitary or combined sewer is not
available, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply and be permitted by the State Department of
Quality.
      (2)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   (C)   Public sewer availability. At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided
in division (B) above, a direct connection can be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Cost to owner. The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
town.
   (E)   Violations deemed a nuisance. All septic tank systems on any premises
within the incorporated limits of the town not constructed and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter are hereby declared to be a
nuisance and menace to public health.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-4) (Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the town’s Board of Trustees to appoint a duly
authorized representative to make an inspection of the methods of disposal of
sewage within the town within 45 days after the effective date hereof and as
frequently thereafter as is necessary to secure compliance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   Written notification of any violation of this subchapter shall be
given by the duly authorized representative to the owner or owner’s agent and
occupant of the property upon which the violation occurs.
   (C)   If there has not been compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter within the period of 45 days following the date of notice of
violation, the owner or owner’s agent of the property will be prosecuted in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-5)
CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.20 MANDATORY USE OF PUBLIC SYSTEM.
   All new homes built within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required to connect with and tap into a sewer line maintained by the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-1)
§ 52.21 CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE TOWN PROHIBITED.
   No sewer line connection shall be made to the town sewer lines and sewer
mains to provide sewer service to property outside the corporate limits of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-2) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 CONNECTION RULES.
   The following rules shall govern the sanitary plumbing for connecting houses
and other users of the sewer with the public sewers of the town.
   (A)   Compliance with Plumbing Code. Except as may be otherwise specifically
provided by law or ordinance, the plumbing and drainage system of a building or
structure shall be installed in conformity with the Plumbing Code adopted by
the town.
   (B)   Separate building sewers. Each building shall be separately and
independently connected with the street sewer when one is provided. If there is
no sewer in the street or alley, a private sewer may be constructed when plans
for the same are approved by the town’s Public Works Authority.
   (C)   Permit to connect; fees and costs. The property owners connecting with
and tapping any sewer line with the town shall first make application to the
town’s Public Works Authority for permission to do so, and shall pay the town’s
Public Works Authority a fee of $75 for old line and $75 for new line. The
property owner shall dig all ditches, furnish and lay all lateral lines and
leave the ditches open until the same are inspected and approved. Then, the
ditches shall be immediately filled.
   (D)   Location of connection designated.
      (1)   Upon granting of the permit as aforesaid, a notice, in writing, of
at least 24 hours shall be given by the plumber or other person to the
inspector requesting him or her to designate the location where connection or
junctions are desired to be made to said main, district or lateral sewer, and
it shall be the duty of the inspector to give the location of all junctions
with which such connections are permitted to be made, and no connection shall
be made to any main or lateral sewer at any other point, except at the point
designated by the inspector; provided that, the town shall, in no case, be
liable for a failure on the part of the inspector to locate such junctions
exactly.
      (2)   It shall also be the duty of the plumber to notify the Fire
Department of any street or alley blocked off when same is closed to traffic.
Such notice shall be given before sunset of the day the street or alley is so
blocked.
   (E)   Supervision of connection. It shall be the duty of the inspector to
superintend the making or building of the connections to such main, district or
lateral sewer and to see that proper material is used and that proper
connections are made in a good and workmanlike manner as provided herein.
   (F)   Necessity of breaking into sewer. Whenever it is necessary, on account
of the absence of junctions, or for any other reason, to break into a sewer
constructed of vitrified clay pipe, the inspector shall have the power to
determine the manner of making the connection, and his or her permission shall
first be obtained, and all of such work shall invariably be done under the
supervision of the inspector. The property owner shall pay the expense incurred
thereby.
   (G)   Restoration of excavated area.
      (1)   When any person builds or constructs any main or lateral sewer, the
plumber building or making the connection with main or lateral sewer in any
street, alley, avenue or any public place in the town shall replace the earth
removed in excavating for any main or lateral sewer, or making any connections
therewith, and shall tamp the earth as it is replaced in such ditch in such a
manner and to the extent directed by the Street Superintendent or Director of
Public Works.
      (2)   Within 48 hours after the completion of the ditch in any alley,
street, avenue, lane or other public place in the town, for the purpose of
building and constructing main or lateral sewers or making connection
therewith, the ditch or opening shall be filled, and the earth tamped therein,
as aforesaid, and such street, alley, avenue, lane or other public place shall
be put in as good condition by such person or plumber at his or her own expense
for a period of 30 days.
      (3)   Water shall be freely added after the first fill.
   (H)   Safety and warning devices. Every sewer builder or plumber shall
enclose any opening or excavation he or she may make in any public street,
alley, avenue, lane or any of the public places with good and sufficient
barriers not less than three feet high, and shall maintain red light danger
signals from sunset to sunrise, which lights shall be placed on each end of the
opening and at such places as may be designated by the Street Superintendent or
Director of Public Works, and such persons shall be held personally liable for
any and all damages to persons or property resulting from negligence in
maintaining such barriers and signals or in any manner resulting from building
and construction for such sewer, lateral or private drain.
   (I)   Prohibited discharges into system. It is unlawful to allow any surface
water to overflow from any cistern, reservoir or receptacle to be connected
with any main or lateral sewer, or to allow any oil, dirt, garbage, ashes,
refuse, rags, cinders or any other matter or thing whatsoever, except human
excrement and toilet paper and liquid slops, to be deposited into any
receptacle or depository connected with such sewer.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-3) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or his or her
agents, servants or employees, to make a connection of any kind to the town’s
sanitary or storm sewerage or refuse or fail to perform any act which is
prohibited or refuse or fail to perform any act which, in this subchapter, is
required.
   (B)   Where such acts or omissions continue for more than one day, each day
on which such acts or omissions continue shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-2B-4) Penalty, see §
52.99
INDUSTRIAL USERS; SYSTEM DISCHARGES
§ 52.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen, by weight,
expressed in milligrams per liter, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory conditions for five days at a
temperature of 20°C.
   COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The measure of the oxygen consuming capacity
of inorganic and organic matter present in the water or wastewater, expressed
in milligrams per liter, as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical
oxidant in a specific test, but not differentiating between stable and unstable
organic matter and thus not necessarily correlating with biochemical oxygen
demand.
   CONTROL POINT. A point of access to a course of discharge before the
discharge mixes with other discharges in the public sewer.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade or business from the development of any natural resource,
or any mixture of the waste with water or normal wastewater or distinct from
normal wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE. The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the town’s sewerage system.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. The same as parts per million and is a weight to
volume ratio. The milligram per liter value multiplied by the factor 8.34 shall
be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater, excluding industrial wastewater,
discharged by a person into sanitary sewers and in which the average
concentration of total suspended solids is not more than 300 mg/l and BOD is
not more than 250 milligrams per liter (250 mg/l).
   pH. The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A pipe or conduit carrying wastewater or unpolluted drainage
in which owners of abutting properties shall have the use, subject to control
by the town.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids measured in milligrams per liter that either float
on the surface of, or are in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids,
and which are largely removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   TOWN. The Town of Seiling, Oklahoma, or any authorized person acting in its
behalf.
   WASTE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge on all users of the public sewer system
whose wastes do not exceed in strength the concentration values established as
representative of normal wastewater.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. Includes all facilities for collection, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-1)
§ 52.36 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   All discharges shall conform to requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-2)
§ 52.37 USE OF PUBLIC SYSTEM REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Unless exception is granted by the approving authority, the public
sanitary sewer system shall be used by all persons discharging:
      (1)   Wastewater;
      (2)   Industrial waste; and
      (3)   Polluted liquids.
   (B)   Unless authorized by the state’s Department of Health, no person may
deposit or discharge any waste included in division (A) above on public or
private property into or adjacent to any:
      (1)   Natural outlet;
      (2)   Watercourse;
      (3)   Storm sewer; and
      (4)   Other area within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (C)   The approving authority shall verify, prior to discharge, that wastes
authorized to be discharged will receive suitable treatment within the
provisions of laws, regulations, ordinances, rules and orders of federal, state
and local governments.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-3)
§ 52.38 DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM.
   (A)   Prohibited discharges generally. No person may discharge to public
sewers any waste which, by itself or by interaction with other wastes, may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-4-1)
   (B)   Chemicals.
      (1)   No discharge to public sewers may contain:
         (a)   Cyanide greater than 0.05 milligram per liter;
         (b)   Fluoride other than that contained in the public water supply;
         (c)   Chlorides in concentrations greater than 250 mg/l;
         (d)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas; or
         (e)   Substances causing an excessive chemical oxygen demand (COD).
      (2)   No waste or wastewater discharged to public waters may contain:
         (a)   Strong acid, iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating
solutions, whether neutralized or not;
         (b)   Fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess
of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32 and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
         (c)   Objectionable or toxic substances exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement to such degree that any such material received in the composite
wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by
the approving authority for such materials; or
         (d)   Obnoxious, toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
quantities sufficient to violate the provisions of division (A) above.
      (3)   No waste, wastewater or other substance may be discharged into
public sewers which has a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5, or any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and/or personnel at the wastewater facilities.
      (4)   All waste, wastewater or other substance containing phenols,
hydrogen sulfide or other taste and odor producing substances shall conform to
concentration limits established by the approving authority. After treatment of
the composite wastewater, concentration limits may not exceed the requirements
established by state, federal or other agencies with jurisdiction over
discharges to receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-4-2)
   (C)   Heavy metals and toxic materials.
      (1)   No discharges may contain concentrations of heavy metals greater
than amounts specified in this division (C). The maximum allowable
concentrations of heavy metals stated in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l),
determined on the basis of individual sampling in accordance with Standard
Methods are:
Arsenic          0.05
Barium           5.00
Boron            1.00
Cadmium          0.05
Chromium (total) 0.10
Copper           0.10
Lead             0.10
Manganese        1.00
Mercury          0.005
Nickel           1.00
Selenium         0.05
Silver           0.10
Zinc             0.30
 
      (2)   No other heavy metals or toxic materials may be discharged into the
public sewers without a permit from the approving authority specifying
conditions of pretreatment, concentrations, volumes and other applicable
provisions.
      (3)   Prohibited heavy metals and toxic materials include, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Antimony;
         (b)   Beryllium;
         (c)   Bismuth;
         (d)   Cobalt;
         (e)   Fungicides;
         (f)   Herbicides;
         (g)   Molybdenum;
         (h)   Pesticides;
         (i)   Rhenium;
         (j)   Strontium;
         (k)   Tellurium; and
         (l)   Uranyl ion.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-4-3)
   (D)   Materials impairing the system.
      (1)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance capable of
causing:
         (a)   Obstruction to the flow in sewers;
         (b)   Interference with the operation of treatment processes of
facilities; or
         (c)   Excessive loading of treatment facilities.
      (2)   Discharges prohibited by division (D)(1) above include, but are not
limited to, materials which exert or cause concentrations of:
         (a)   Inert suspended solids greater than 250 mg/l including, but not
limited to:
            1.   Fuller’s earth;
            2.   Lime slurries; and
            3.   Lime residues.
         (b)   Dissolved solids greater than 500 mg/l including, but not
limited to:
            1.   Sodium chlorides; and
            2.   Sodium sulfates.
         (c)   Excessive discoloration including, but not limited to:
            1.   Dye wastes; and
            2.   Vegetable tanning solutions.
         (d)   BOD, COD or chlorine demand in excess of normal plant capacity.
      (3)   No person may discharge into the public sewers any substance that
may:
         (a)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as to
clog the sewers;
         (b)   Overload skimming and grease handling equipment;
         (c)   Pass to the receiving waters without being effectively treated
by normal wastewater treatment processes due to the non-amenability of the
substance to bacterial action; or
         (d)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
      (4)   No person may discharge any substance into the public sewers which:
         (a)   Is not amenable to treatment or reduction by the processes and
facilities employed; or
         (b)   Is amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the
treatment plan effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
      (5)   The approving authority shall regulate the flow and concentration
of slugs when they may:
         (a)   Impair the treatment process;
         (b)   Cause damage to collection facilities;
         (c)   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
         (d)   Render the waste unfit for stream disposal or industrial use.
      (6)   No person may discharge into public sewers solids or viscous
substances which may violate division (D)(1) above if present in sufficient
quantity or size including, but not limited to:
      (a)   Ashes;
   (b)   Bulk solids;
      (c)   Chemical residues;
      (d)   Cinders;
      (e)   Entrails;
   (f)   Feathers;
      (g)   Glass;
      (h)   Hair and fleshings;
      (i)   Metal;
      (j)   Mud;
      (k)   Paint residues;
      (l)   Paper products, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (m)   Paunch manure;
      (n)   Plastics;
      (o)   Rags;
      (p)   Sand;
      (q)   Shavings;
      (r)   Slops;
      (s)   Straw;
      (t)   Tar;
      (u)   Unground garbage;
      (v)   Whole blood; and
      (w)   Wood.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-4-4)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.39 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION.
   (A)   If pretreatment or control is required, the approving authority shall
review and approve the design and installation of equipment and processes.
   (B)   The design and installation of equipment and processes must conform to
all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances and other laws.
   (C)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring pretreatment, flow
equalizing or other facilities shall provide and maintain the facilities in
effective operating condition at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-5)
§ 52.40 SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   Sampling shall be conducted according to customarily accepted methods,
reflecting the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and determining the
existence of hazards to health, life, limb and property, and shall be conducted
in accordance with the standard methods of sampling effluent and wastewater
which are employed by the state’s Department of Health.
   (B)   Examination and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes
required by this subchapter shall be:
      (1)   Conducted in accordance with the latest edition of Oklahoma State
Health Department Standards;
      (2)   Determined from suitable samples taken at the control manhole
provided or other control point authorized by the approving authority;
      (3)   BOD and suspended solids shall be determined from composite
sampling, except to detect unauthorized discharges;
      (4)   The town may select an independent firm or laboratory to determine
flow, BOD and suspended solids; and
      (5)   The town will take samples of the lagoon each month and record the
results of the sample. This will help the operator to understand the functions
of the treatment and the results and to compare them from time to time to make
sure the plant operates in a consistent and appropriate manner.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-6)
§ 52.41 INDUSTRIAL CHARGES.
   At any time a permit is issued for an industrial discharge, the town shall
determine the actual cost to treat waste and shall assess such fees as are
necessary to at least recover all costs of collection and treatment. Costs of
treatment shall be reviewed annually and fees adjusted accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-7)
§ 52.42 USER RATES.
   Rates for the use of the public sewer system are established by the town’s
Board of Trustees and are on file in the town offices for public use and
inspection. Said rates will be subject to the annual percentage increase
determined by the Consumer Price Index.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-8)
§ 52.43 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The town may grant a permit to discharge to persons meeting all
appropriate requirements; provided that, the person:
      (1)   Submit an application within 180 days after the effective date
hereof on forms supplied by the approving authority;
      (2)   Secure approval by the approving authority of plans and
specifications for pretreatment facilities when required;
      (3)   Has complied with all requirements for agreements or arrangements
including, but not limited to, provisions for:
         (a)   Payment of charges;
         (b)   Installation and operation of pretreatment facilities;
         (c)   Sampling and analysis to determine quantity and strength; and
      (4)   Provides a sampling point subject to the provisions of this
subchapter and approval of the approving authority.
   (B)   A person applying for a new discharge shall:
      (1)   Meet all conditions of division (A) above; and
      (2)   Secure a permit prior to discharging any waste.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-9) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.44 ENTRY POWERS.
   (A)   The Public Works Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled to enter
any public or private property at any reasonable time for the purpose of
enforcing this subchapter.
   (B)   Anyone acting under this authority shall observe the establishment’s
rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security and fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-10)
§ 52.45 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   The town may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and disconnect
an industrial customer from the system when:
   (A)   Acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment process are
released to the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or
interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
   (B)   A governmental agency informs the town that the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to
a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is delivering wastewater to
the town’s system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment
that is not provided by the town as normal domestic treatment; or
   (C)   The industrial customer:
      (1)   Discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in violation of
the permit issued by the approving authority;
      (2)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
      (3)   Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer service
when due; or
      (4)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-11)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation, or agents thereof, who neglect, fail
or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.05 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, when
convicted, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and each day such person, firm or
corporation, or agents thereof, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.05 of this chapter, after notice to so do, shall be deemed a separate
offense and punishable as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-2A-6)
   (C)   A person who continues prohibited discharges, as per §§
52.35 through
52.45 of this chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances for each act of violation and for each day of
violation. In addition to proceeding under authority of this division (C), the
town is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies to which it is
entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against a person
continuing prohibited discharges.
(Prior Code, § 9-2C-12)
CHAPTER 53: GAS
Section
   
53.01   Rules established
   
53.02   Deposit required
   
53.03   Connection charges
   
53.04   User rates
   
53.05   Theft of gas
   
53.06   Damage to, tampering with system
§ 53.01 RULES ESTABLISHED.
   The rules established by this chapter shall govern the gas system for
connecting houses and other users of the gas system with the public users of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 2009-7, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 53.02 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to purchase gas from the town and
desiring gas service from the town’s gas system shall make a gas service
deposit of $250 for renters and $150 for homeowners as security for payment of
charges for gas service and other charges related thereto which may become
overdue. Any or the entire amount deposited may be applied by the town for the
payment of such charges. Any of the amount deposited which remains to the
credit of the customer, less any amount owed by him or her to the town, shall
be refunded to him or her when gas service is discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 2009-7, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 53.03 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Residential customers. Service will be installed at the customer’s
residence at a cost calculated by the Public Works Superintendent of time
(labor) and materials. Charges shall be calculated to the meter location.
Service relocation will be done at the customer’s request at a cost of time
(labor) and materials. The town’s Public Works Authority will extend a gas line
for a residential customer located outside of the town. Charges will be
calculated by the Public Works Superintendent of time (labor) and materials.
Charges will be calculated to the meter location.
   (B)   Commercial, industrial and development customers. The town’s Public
Works Authority shall determine pricing for commercial and industrial gas line
extensions and pricing for developments to be served by the town gas system on
a case by case analysis.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 2009-7, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 53.04 USER RATES.
   (A)   Rates established. There are hereby established by the town’s Board of
Trustees uniform residential and commercial rates for the volume of natural gas
delivered during each calendar month at each connection to the natural gas
system of the authority as shown by the meter at each connection; provided
that, the monthly charge for each said connection shall not be less than the
minimum charge established.
   (B)   Rate adjustments. All rates for all natural gas customer usage shall,
each month, increase or decrease from the gas rate by an amount equal to the
purchase gas adjustment (PGA) as shown on the most recent natural gas wholesale
bill and the natural gas transportation bill to the town’s Public Works
Authority.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4) (Ord. 2009-7, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 53.05 THEFT OF GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who, by fraud or larceny, in any way obtains gas from
the gas system of the town, or who turns on the gas service without having
first made application to the town’s Public Works Authority in regular form is
guilty of an offense.
      (2)   Each day gas is used unlawfully constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   The amount of gas that has been used by a person without the gas being
permitted to go through the meter designated and placed for such person shall
be estimated by the amount used by such person during the last month previous
when the meter operated, and the person shall pay the same at the rate fixed by
ordinance.
   (C)   In any case where theft of gas is committed, the town shall have the
right to install a lock for the gas meter as a precaution against further
theft.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 2009-7, passed 7-13-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM.
   (A)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface or in any
way tamper with any portion of the municipal gas system, or to turn the gas off
or on from any main at any time or place unless he or she is duly authorized so
to do by the town’s Public Works Authority, or in the case of an emergency.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized officer
or employee of the Gas Department, to alter, change or in any manner interfere
or tamper with the gas meter in use by any consumer or with any other equipment
used by the town in operation of the gas system.
   (B)   Report of emergency action. Any emergency action must be reported to
the Town Administrator no later than 10:00 a.m. on the first working day
following the emergency action. Alteration of any gas meter shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Fines and costs. In addition to the payment of any fines and gas
service fees and charges due, any alteration of a gas meter or system element
which results in damage to said elements shall also be grounds for payment of
costs related to said damages for replacement and repair. Service shall not be
resumed until all costs have been paid to the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) (Ord. 2009-7, passed 7-13-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL AND TOY VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Jurisdiction of town
   
70.02   Highway Safety Code adopted
   
70.03   Traffic-control signs, signals and devices
   
70.04   Jake brakes prohibited
   
70.05   Parking methods
   
70.06   Parking, storage of boats, trailers and the like
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Court, see
Chapter 33
   Traffic Violations Bureau, see §
33.11
§ 70.01 JURISDICTION OF TOWN.
   The operation of motor vehicles and other traffic upon roads, streets and
highways that form the boundary line of the town shall be subject to all
ordinances otherwise governing and regulating the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 70.02 HIGHWAY SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   47 O.S., the Oklahoma Highway Safety Code, is hereby adopted and hereby
incorporated as the traffic code for the town, as the same is presently in full
force and effect and as subsequently amended by the state legislature.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND DEVICES.
   (A)   Manual adopted. The Manual On Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, 1988
edition, as approved by the Federal Highway Administrator and as adopted by the
state’s Department of Transportation, is adopted and incorporated as currently
approved or as subsequently amended.
   (B)   Compliance required. All traffic-control signs, signals and devices
and other highway and street markings shall conform to the Manual on Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices, as approved by the Federal Highway Administrator and
as adopted by the state’s Department of Transportation.
   (C)   Uniformity; official devices. All signs and signals required hereunder
for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type
and location throughout the town. All traffic-control devices so erected and
not inconsistent with the provisions of this traffic code shall be official
traffic- control devices.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 70.04 JAKE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense within the town limits for any person,
firm or corporation to use vehicle or trailer brakes which create an excessive
or unusual noise such as is created by the use of “Jake” brakes.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PARKING METHODS.
   (A)   Park within markings. It shall be mandatory for all vehicles to park
according to painted designations on streets constructed and/or maintained by
the town.
   (B)   Angle parking.
      (1)   Where street markings designate angle parking, any vehicle parked
in any other manner, such as parallel across said markings, shall be in
violation of this section.
      (2)   No such angle designations will be permitted on any federal or
state highway unless determined by the state’s Department of Transportation.
      (3)   A special exception shall apply for funeral purposes, and no
violation shall exist in that regard.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 2012-2, passed 2-13-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 PARKING, STORAGE OF BOATS, TRAILERS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      BOAT. Any boat, ship, jet ski or any other boat or open watercraft.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any item belonging to a citizen, regardless of size.
      TRAILER. Any camper trailer, travel trailer, stock trailer, flatbed
trailer or any other kind of trailer.
   (B)   Intent.
      (1)    It is the intent of the Town Board to prohibit long-term storage
of personal property on town streets, alleys, rights-of-way or other public
property.
      (2)   Moving a vehicle or personal property from place to place on public
ways or property does not constitute compliance with division (C) below.
   (C)   Parking or storage prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall store, or permit to be stored, on a public right-
of-way or other public property, a recreational vehicle, travel trailer or any
other trailer, boat, camper or any other personal property within a period in
excess of 72 hours. Failure to remove such property from the street or public
property within a period of 72 hours constitutes prima facie evidence of a
violation of this division (C)(1).
      (2)   No person shall store, or permit to be stored on a public right-of-
way or other public property an inoperable motor vehicle for a period in excess
of 24 hours. Failure to remove such a motor vehicle from public property within
24 hours constitutes prima facie evidence of a violation of this division (C)
(2).
   (D)   Written warning or notice; citation.
      (1)   When a Code Enforcement Officer finds a vehicle or property in
violation of this section, a written warning may be issued to the registered
owner or other person responsible for the vehicle or property and/or a notice
of intent to impound, allowing a reasonable period for the person to comply
with this section.
      (2)   Failure of the person to comply within the time allowed shall
result in the issuance of a citation and the vehicle or property in violation
of this section may be towed/removed at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 2008-3, passed 2-14-2008; Ord. 2023-6, passed 8-14-
2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, association, corporation or copartnership who shall
violate any of the provisions of §
70.04 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
   (C)   Any person, firm, association, corporation or copartnership who shall
violate any of the provisions of §
70.05 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
   (D)   In addition to paying any expense incurred by the town in connection
with the impoundment and/or storage of a vehicle or property which is in
violation of §
70.06 of this chapter, a person found guilty of violating §
70.06(C)(1) or (C)(2) of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, plus impoundment and storage fees.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 2-14-2008; Ord. 2012-2, passed 2-13-2012; Ord. 2023-6,
passed 8-14-2023)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL AND TOY VEHICLES
Section
Toy Vehicles
   
71.01   Bicycles
   
71.02   Rollerblades, roller skates and the like
   
71.03   Attachment to vehicles prohibited
Golf Carts and Recreational Off-Highway Vehicles
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Permits, inspections and insurance requirements
   
71.17   Traffic laws apply
   
71.18   Operation restrictions
   
71.19   Equipment and condition requirements
 
   
71.99   Penalty
TOY VEHICLES
§ 71.01 BICYCLES.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, the term BICYCLE shall mean every
device propelled solely by human power upon which any person may ride, having
two tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices, and including any
device generally recognized as a bicycle though equipped with two front or rear
wheels.
   (B)   Traffic laws apply. Every person riding a bicycle on a street or upon
any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the state’s Traffic Code.
   (C)   Riding on bicycles.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person propelling a bicycle to ride other
than upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      (2)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except on a baby seat attached to
the bicycle; provided that, the seat is equipped with a harness to hold the
child securely in the seat and that protection is provided against the child’s
feet hitting the spokes of the wheel, or in a seat attached to the bicycle
operator.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry
any package, bundle or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least
one hand on the handlebars.
   (D)   Operation of bicycles.
      (1)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then
existing shall ride as close as is safe to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway, except under any of the following situations:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway;
         (c)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions and while
exercising due care including, but not limited to:
            1.   Fixed or moving objects;
            2.   Parked or moving vehicles;
            3.   Pedestrians or animals;
            4.   Surface hazards; or
            5.   Any time it is unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway.
         (d)   When riding in the right turn only lane.
      (2)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal and
reasonable flow of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a single
lane.
      (3)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
shall yield the right-of- way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing a pedestrian.
      (4)   No person shall ride a bicycle on any sidewalk in the business
district of the town. The business district shall consist of sidewalks on Main
Street within an area bounded on the north by County Line Road, on the south to
SE 4th and one block east and west of Main Street.
   (E)   Equipment required.
      (1)   Front lamp. Every bicycle in use at the times described in 47 O.S.
§ 12-201, sub. B, shall be equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white
light visible from a distance of at least 1,000 feet to the front. This
division (E)(1) shall not apply to a street or highway with a speed limit of 25
mph or less.
      (2)   Rear lamp and reflector. Every bicycle in use at the times
described in 47 O.S. § 12-201, sub. B, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
rear emitting a red light visible from a distance of at least 1,000 feet to the
rear. This division (E)(2) shall not apply to a street or highway with a speed
limit of 25 mph or less. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a red reflector
which shall be visible for 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Reflective material. Every bicycle when in use at the times
described in 47 O.S. § 12-201, sub. B, shall be equipped with reflective
material of sufficient size and reflectivity to be visible from both sides for
600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor
vehicle.
      (4)   Brakes. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake or brakes
which will enable its driver to stop the bicycle within 25 feet from a speed of
ten mph on dry, level, clean pavement.
      (5)   Siren not permitted. A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor
shall any person use upon a bicycle, any siren.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. 2010-6, passed 10-12-2010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 ROLLERBLADES, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT.
         (a)   Sidewalks on Main Street within an area bounded on the north by
County Line Road, on the south to SE 4th and one block east and west of Main
Street;
         (b)   Highway 60 East area bounded on the north by County Line Road
and Main Street on the west; and
         (c)   The part of the town so designated by the Board of Trustees.
      OPERATE. To ride on or upon or control the operation of rollerblades,
roller skates or a skateboard.
      OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of
rollerblades, roller skates or a skateboard.
      ROLLER SKIS. A pair of skis platformed with wheels attached which is
intended to simulate skiing.
      ROLLERBLADES/ROLLER SKATES. A shoe with wheels attached or a device with
wheels which is designed to be attached to a shoe.
      SKATEBOARD. A device for riding upon, usually while standing, consisting
of an oblong piece of wood or other composition, mounted on skate wheels.
   (B)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate rollerblades, roller
skates, roller skis or a skateboard under the following circumstances:
         (a)   On a public sidewalk, street or public parking lot within the
business district;
         (b)   On private property of another without the express permission to
do so by the owner or occupant of the property; or
         (c)   In any careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger
or be likely to endanger the safety of any person or property of any other
person.
      (2)   Any person operating rollerblades, roller skates, roller skis or a
skateboard upon a street shall ride as close as possible to the right-hand curb
or edge of the street.
      (3)   Every person operating rollerblades, roller skates, roller skis or
a skateboard upon a street shall observe the same rules of the road as required
of bicycles. Every person operating rollerblades, roller skates, roller skis or
a skateboard shall yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the
sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering the street, shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on the street.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. 2010-6, passed 10-12-2010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ATTACHMENT TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person riding upon a bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
rollerblades, skateboard, sled or toy vehicle to attach the same or themselves
to any vehicle upon a street.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) (Ord. 2010-6, passed 10-12-2010) Penalty, see §
71.99
GOLF CARTS AND RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
§ 71.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A small four-wheeled motorized vehicle having non-straddle
seating for transporting golfers and their equipment around a golf course.
   RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Manufactured and used exclusively for off
highway use, traveling on four or more non-highway tires, having non-straddle
seating and steered by a steering wheel.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1) (Ord. 2011-7, passed 12-12-2011)
§ 71.16 PERMITS, INSPECTIONS AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit, inspection and insurance required.
      (1)   A town permit and insurance are required where golf carts are used
as general transportation.
      (2)   Golf carts or recreational off-highway vehicles that require
permits must be inspected by the town’s Police Department.
      (3)   Golf carts or recreational off-highway vehicles owners must provide
an Oklahoma evidence of insurance card with application for permit.
   (B)   Permit fee and disposition.
      (1)   Permits cost $20 per year.
      (2)   Ten dollars shall be deposited into the DARE Restricted Fund and
$10 into the General Fund.
   (C)   Term of permit; renewals. All permits will expire on December 31 of
the year issued. Inspection certificate renewal notices will not be provided by
the town. It is the responsibility of the vehicle owner to ensure that his or
her permit is renewed.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) (Ord. 2011-7, passed 12-12-2011)
§ 71.17 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Golf carts and recreational off-highway vehicles will be governed by all
motor vehicle laws as applied by town, state and federal agencies.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3) (Ord. 2011-7, passed 12-12-2011)
§ 71.18 OPERATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts and recreational off-highway vehicles may be operated in
the town limits on residential streets where the town has approved their use.
It is the responsibility of the vehicle owner to know what roads are designated
as permissible for operation of the golf carts and recreational off- highway
vehicles.
   (B)   Remaining on town streets with a speed limit of 25 mph will be
strictly enforced.
   (C)   The crossing of state highways can only be completed within a 25 mph
speed zone and only at an intersection. Golf carts and recreational off-highway
vehicles cannot travel upon any state or federal highway.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4) (Ord. 2011-7, passed 12-12-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Equipment required. Golf carts and recreational off highway vehicles
must have the following minimum equipment:
      (1)   A working amber colored rotating or strobe light that can be seen
from all directions or a slow moving vehicle orange triangle on the rear;
      (2)   Full windshield;
      (3)   Full roof; and
      (4)   If equipped with headlamps, taillights, stop lights, mirror,
brakes, parking brake, horn and seat belts, they must all be in proper working
order and division (A)(1) above will not be required.
   (B)   Condition of vehicle. Each of the items of equipment must meet the
following town’s Police Department inspection requirements:
      (1)   No speed modifications are permitted to the engine or motor;
      (2)   Current valid driver’s license in the possession of the driver;
      (3)   Operated with all lights on and working;
      (4)   Operated solely on roadways designated by the town; and
      (5)   No rear facing seats.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5) (Ord. 2011-7, passed 12-12-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of §§
71.01, 71.02 or 71.03 of this chapter shall be fined in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   First offense: $50, plus costs;
      (2)   Second offense: $100, plus costs;
      (3)   Third offense: $200, plus costs; and
      (4)   Future violations above the third offense: the maximum fine
allowed, plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) (Ord. 2010-6, passed 10-12-2010)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   RECREATION AND LEISURE
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Certain public nuisances enumerated
   
90.03   Public nuisances prohibited
   
90.04   Persons liable
   
90.05   Lapse of time; effect
   
90.06   Remedial action
   
90.07   Abatement of public nuisances
   
90.08   Abatement of health nuisances
Cleaning and Mowing of Property
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Procedure
   
90.22   Subsequent violations; summary abatement
   
90.23   Additional regulations
   
90.24   Exemptions from provisions
   
90.25   Certification training
Abandoned, Junked Vehicles
   
90.40   Definitions
   
90.41   Prohibited acts; nuisance declared; exemptions
   
90.42   Abatement procedures
   
90.43   Disposal, sale or redemption of vehicle
   
90.44   Removal costs
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Chapter 94
   Public Safety; Emergency Management, see
Chapter 32
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, or any
thing or condition which either:
         (a)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
         (d)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use
of property.
      (2)   Provided, however, this definition shall not apply to preexisting
agricultural activities.
   PRIVATE NUISANCE. Every nuisance not included in the definition of “public
nuisance” in this section.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A nuisance which affects, at the same time, an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 90.02 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of this
code, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Unwholesome food or drink. The sale or offering for sale of
unwholesome food or drink, or the keeping of a place where such sales or
offerings are made;
   (B)   Alcoholic beverages; controlled substances. The sale, offering for
sale or furnishing of alcoholic beverages in violation of state law or town
ordinances, or the keeping of a place where alcoholic beverages are sold,
offered for sale or furnished in violation of state law or town ordinances;
   (C)   Obscene materials. The exposure, display, sale or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects, or
the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
   (D)   Gambling. The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by
cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise, except those places officially
licensed by the state;
   (E)   Bawdy, disorderly houses.
      (1)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced; and
      (2)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or town ordinances are practiced or carried on.
   (F)   Public dances. The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of
town ordinances, or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
   (G)   Noisy conditions. The continued making of loud or unusual noises which
annoy persons of ordinary sensibilities, or the keeping of an animal which
makes such noises;
   (H)   Interference with radio or television reception. The operation or use
of any electrical apparatus or machine which materially and unduly interferes
with radio or television reception by others;
   (I)   Assemblies obstructing traffic. Any use of a street or sidewalk or
place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance;
   (J)   Water flowing, ice or snow falling upon streets. Permitting water or
other liquid to flow or fall or ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk;
   (K)   Stagnant waterbodies. All wells, pools, cisterns or bodies or
containers of water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which
are so constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public
safety;
   (L)   Breeding places for insects, pests and bacteria. Rank weeds or grass,
carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or other things which are or are
likely to be breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin or disease causing
germs;
   (M)   Dangerous structures. Any building or structure which is dangerous to
the public health or safety because of damage, decay or other conditions;
   (N)   Dangerous premises. Any pit, hole or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned and/or situated as to endanger the public
safety;
   (O)   Fire and explosion hazard. No person shall cause, suffer, allow or
permit any fire explosion hazard which endangers the public safety. No person
shall cause, suffer, allow or permit open burning of refuse or other
combustible materials within the town limits.
   (P)   Dangerous businesses. Any occupation or activity which endangers the
public peace, health, safety, morals or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 2016-2, passed 6-13-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person (owner, lessee or other) to create or maintain
a public nuisance within the town, or to permit a public nuisance to remain on
premises under his or her control within the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 PERSONS LIABLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property created by a former owner is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)
§ 90.05 LAPSE OF TIME; EFFECT.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5)
§ 90.06 REMEDIAL ACTION.
   The remedies against public nuisances are:
   (A)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
   (B)   Prosecution of information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
   (C)   Civil action; and
   (D)   Abatement:
      (1)   By the person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; and
      (2)   By the town in accordance with law and ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-6)
§ 90.07 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Summary abatement. Some public nuisances are of such nature as to
constitute a grave and immediate danger to the public peace, health, safety,
morals or welfare. It is recognized that circumstances may be such as to
justify, and even to require, the Board of Trustees to take immediate and
proper action to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until
more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   Statement of nuisance; recommended abatement.
      (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department, the law enforcement personnel,
the Town Administrator and the Town Attorney may submit, through or with the
consent of the Board of Trustees, a statement as to the existence of a “public
nuisance”, as defined by §
90.02 of this chapter or by other town ordinances, and a request or
recommendation that it be abated.
      (2)   Any member of the Board of Trustees or any resident or residents of
the town may submit such a statement and request a recommendation of the Board
of Trustees.
   (C)   Determination of nuisance existence; notice. The Board of Trustees
shall determine whether or not the alleged public nuisance is a public nuisance
in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the subject, the Board of
Trustees shall have the power to subpoena and examine witnesses, books, papers
and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or to have it
abated, the Board of Trustees shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed
abatement to the owner of any property concerned and to any other persons
alleged or deemed responsible for or to be causing the public nuisance, and an
adequate opportunity to be heard if such notice and opportunity for hearing can
be given. Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be given
in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if his, her or their names
and addresses are known, and the public peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay. A notice of the
hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
town.
   (D)   Abatement by owner or town. If the Board of Trustees finds that a
public nuisance does in fact exist, it shall direct the owner and/or other
persons responsible for or causing the public nuisance to abate said nuisance
within a specified time if the public interest would not be unduly jeopardized
by the consequent delay. If the owner or other persons responsible for or
causing the public nuisance do not abate said nuisance within the specified
time, the Board of Trustees shall direct the Town Administrator to abate the
public nuisance or to have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as
authorized by 50 O.S. § 16. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall send a statement
of the cost of such summary abatement to the owner and/or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may be just under the
circumstances, if his, her or their names and addresses are known. Until paid,
such costs shall constitute a debt to the town collectible as other debts may
be collected.
   (E)   Abatement by suit in District Court. If summary abatement is deemed
impractical, the Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may direct the
bringing of a suit in the District Court to abate the public nuisance, as
authorized by 50 O.S. § 17.
   (F)   Procedures cumulative. The procedures for abating or dealing with
public nuisances, as prescribed in this section, shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other procedures authorized by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-7)
§ 90.08 ABATEMENT OF HEALTH NUISANCES.
   (A)   Order of abatement. Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011,
law enforcement personnel shall have the authority to order the owner or
occupant of any private premises in the town to remove from such premises, at
his or her own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition
conducive to the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the
transmission of disease or any other condition adversely affecting the public
health, within 24 hours, or within such other time as might be reasonable, and
a failure to do so shall constitute an offense. Such order shall be in writing
and may be served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or
authorized agent thereof, by law enforcement personnel, or a copy thereof may
be left at the last usual place of abode of such owner, occupant or agent, if
known and within the state. If the premises is unoccupied, and the residence of
such owner, occupant or agent is unknown or is without the state, such order
may be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises, or by publication in
at least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in town.
   (B)   Abatement by town; costs. If there is not compliance with such order,
law enforcement personnel may cause the order to be executed and complied with,
and the cost thereof shall be certified to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, and the
cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be added to the water bill or
other town utility bill of the owner or occupant if he or she is a user of
water from the town water system or such other utility service. The said cost
shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it is added, and shall
become due and payable, and be subject to the same regulation relating to
delinquency in payment, as the utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant
is not a user of such town utility service, such cost, after certification to
the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, may be collected in any manner in which any other
debt due the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-8)
CLEANING AND MOWING OF PROPERTY
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CLEANING. The removal of trash from property.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal or waste, or matter of any kind or form which is
uncared for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEED.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEED shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1-1)
§ 90.21 PROCEDURE.
   The town’s Board of Trustees may cause property within the town limits to be
cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the
following procedure.
   (A)   Notice requirements. At least ten days’ notice shall be given to the
owner of the property by mail at the address shown by the current year’s tax
rolls in the County Treasurer’s office before the town’s Board of Trustees
holds a hearing or takes action. The notice shall order the property owner to
clean the property of trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the
property, as appropriate, and the notice shall further state that unless such
work is performed within ten days of the date of the notice, the work shall be
done by the town, and a notice of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk
against the property for the costs due and owing the town. At the time of
mailing of notice to the property owner, the town shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if the property owner
cannot be located within ten days from the date of mailing by the town’s Board
of Trustees, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the
property or by publication, as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102, one time not less
than ten days prior to any hearing or action by the town. If the town’s Board
of Trustees anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the
provisions of §
90.22 of this chapter, the notice, whether by mail, posting or publication,
shall state: that any accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth
on the owner’s property occurring within six months from and after the date of
this notice may be summarily abated by the town’s Board of Trustees; that the
costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the owner; and that a lien
may be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further
prior notice to the property owner.
   (B)   Consent of property owner for town to clean and mow. The owner of the
property may give written consent to the town authorizing the removal of the
trash or the mowing of the weeds or grass. By giving written consent, the owner
waives the owner’s right to a hearing by the town.
   (C)   Hearing. A hearing may be held by the town’s Board of Trustees to
determine whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has
caused the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit and welfare of
the public and the community or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire hazard
to the danger of property.
   (D)   Cleaning and mowing by town; notice of lien. Upon a finding that the
condition of the property constitutes a detriment or hazard, and that the
property would be benefitted by the removal of such conditions, the agents of
the town are granted the right of entry on the property for the removal of
trash, mowing of weeds or grass and performance of the necessary duties as a
governmental function of the town. Immediately following the cleaning or mowing
of the property, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall file a notice of lien with
the County Clerk describing the property and the work performed by the town,
and stating that the town claims a lien on the property for the cleaning or
mowing costs.
   (E)   Costs; lien provisions.
      (1)   The town’s Board of Trustees shall determine the actual cost of
such cleaning and mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in
connection therewith, including the cost of notice and mailing. The town’s
Clerk-Treasurer shall forward by mail to the property owner specified in
division (A) above a statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If
the cleaning and mowing are done by the town, the cost to the property owner
for the cleaning and mowing shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor,
maintenance and equipment required. If the cleaning and mowing are done on a
private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best
bidder.
      (2)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing
of the statement, then, within the next 30 days, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the County
Treasurer, and the same shall be levied on the property and collected by the
County Treasurer as other taxes authorized by law.
      (3)   Once certified by the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to
the County Treasurer, except as otherwise provided in this section. In
addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the cost is certified to the County Treasurer, coequal
with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments
and prior and superior to all other titles and liens against the property, and
the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully paid. At the time of
collection, the County Treasurer shall collect a fee of $5 for each parcel of
property.
      (4)   The fee shall be deposited to the credit of the General Fund of the
county. If the County Treasurer and the town agree that the County Treasurer is
unable to collect the assessment, the town may pursue a civil remedy for
collection of the amount owing and interest thereon by an action in personam
against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against
the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this division (E). Upon receiving payment, if any, the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such
payment and directing discharge of the lien.
   (F)   Administrative officer; appeals.
      (1)   The town may designate by ordinance an administrative officer or
administrative body to carry out the duties of the town’s Board of Trustees in
this section.
      (2)   The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the town’s Board
of Trustees from any order of the administrative officer or administrative
body.
      (3)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with
the town’s Clerk- Treasurer within ten days after the administrative order is
rendered.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1-2)
§ 90.22 SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS; SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   If a notice is given by the town’s Board of Trustees to a property owner
ordering the property within the town limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds
or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the procedures provided in §
90.21 of this chapter, any subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed
or grass growth on the property occurring within a six-month period may be
declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior
notice to the property owner. At the time of each such summary abatement, the
town shall notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof.
The notice shall state that the property owner may request a hearing within ten
days after the date of mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as
provided in §
90.21 of this chapter. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of
such abatement shall be determined and collected as provided in §
90.21(E) of this chapter. This section shall not apply if the records of the
County Clerk show that the property was transferred after notice was given
pursuant to §
90.21 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1-3)
§ 90.23 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town’s Board of Trustees may enact ordinances to prohibit owners
of property or persons otherwise in possession or control located within the
town limits from allowing trash to accumulate, or weeds to grow or stand upon
the premises and may impose penalties for violation of said ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1-4)
   (B)   (1)   The owner of a lot abutting or fronting on or adjacent to any
portion of a street or alley shall ensure the maintenance of any trees, shrubs,
hedges or other landscaping along said street, including street rights-of-way,
and to the centerline of the alley; also including all property or right-of-way
that lies outside of a fence, sidewalk or curbing, maintaining said property in
such condition set forth in the town’s code of ordinances and adopted so that
the trees, shrubs, hedges or other landscaping will not interfere with the
public convenience or safety in the use of the streets, alleys, trails, paths,
sidewalks and parking lots.
      (2)   The owner of a lot abutting or fronting on or adjacent to any
portion of a street, alley, curbing or sidewalk shall ensure the mowing and
weed control of all property along said street, including street right-of-way
and to the centerline of the alley; also including all property or right-of-way
that lies outside of a fence, sidewalk or curbing, is maintained in such
condition set forth in the town’s code of ordinances and adopted so that the
grass and weeds will not interfere with the public convenience or safety in the
use of streets and alleys.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 90.24 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any property zoned and
used for agricultural purposes or to railroad property under the jurisdiction
of the state’s Corporation Commission. However, the town’s Board of Trustees
may cause the removal of weeds or trash from property zoned and used for
agricultural purposes pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, but only
if such weeds or trash pose a hazard to traffic and are located in, or within
ten yards of, the public right-of-way at intersections.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1-5)
§ 90.25 CERTIFICATION TRAINING.
   (A)   Employees of the town employed or otherwise assigned to enforce
provisions of this subchapter shall complete certification training
specifically applicable to this section as adopted and administered by the
state’s Code Enforcement Association, an internationally recognized model code
organization, career technical education program or an institution of higher
education.
   (B)   The certification training shall be completed within one year of
employment or assignment for such enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1-6)
ABANDONED, JUNKED VEHICLES
§ 90.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE, CLASSIC OR SPECIAL INTEREST AUTOMOBILE. Any vehicle 25 years or
older or which the owner thereof can affirmatively show to be of special
interest to automobile collectors.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any “motor vehicle” or “vehicle”, as defined herein, which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded,
except an antique, classic or special interest automobile.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground or water, and the term shall include, but is not limited to,
automobiles, boats, buses, motorbikes, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-
carts and golf carts.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not public
property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property which is dedicated to the public use
which the federal or any state or municipal government, or any political
subdivisions thereof, owns or leases, or exercises control and dominion over
for public purposes.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and used to
transport persons or property or pull machinery and includes, without
limitation, an automobile, truck-trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 90.41 PROHIBITED ACTS; NUISANCE DECLARED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to park,
store or leave, or to permit the storing or leaving, of any junk vehicle of any
kind which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked
or partially dismantled condition, whether attended or not, upon any private
property within the town limits for a period of time in excess of ten days.
   (B)   Nuisance declared. The presence of any junk vehicle or any abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially dismantled
vehicle or boat or parts thereof on private property is hereby declared a
public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (C)   Exemptions. The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above shall not
apply to any vehicle or motor vehicle enclosed within a building on private
property or to any vehicle held in connection with a lawful business enterprise
and properly operated as such business enterprise in the appropriate zone,
pursuant to the town zoning ordinances, or to any vehicle or motor vehicle in
operable condition, or any vehicle retained by the owner in an enclosed storage
place maintained in a lawful place and manner, which such enclosure is such
that prevents public viewing thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Public property.
      (1)   Exemptions from general abatement provisions. The provisions of
abatement of “public nuisances” contained in §§
90.01 through
90.08 of this chapter shall not apply to junk vehicles or to those which are in
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or partially
dismantled condition, whether attended or not, upon any public property within
the town for a period of time in excess of 24 hours. The notice, hearing and
abatement shall be pursuant to the procedures described in this chapter for
public nuisances on public property.
      (2)   Notices to remove; citation; failure to remove.
         (a)   Whenever it comes to the attention of any official of the town
that any “junk vehicle”, as defined in §
90.40 of this chapter, exists as a public nuisance upon public property in the
town, a notice in writing shall be served upon the owner or person in charge
thereof, notifying him or her of the existence of the nuisance and requesting
its removal in the time specified in this section.
         (b)   A written public nuisance “notification to remove” shall be
placed on the vehicle advising the owner of the violation of this code and of
the 24 hours to remove the nuisance from the public property.
         (c)   Concurrent with the abatement notice placed on the vehicle or
motor vehicle, the owner of the vehicle or motor vehicle shall be issued a
citation.
         (d)   Failure to remove the vehicle or motor vehicle shall be an
offense, and shall be punishable as provided in §
90.99(C) of this chapter. Each day upon which any such violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
         (e)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the appropriate
authorities from removing or causing to be removed any such vehicle which is
located on a public thoroughfare or alley.
   (B)   Private property.
      (1)   Presumption of abandonment. A rebuttable presumption shall exist
that vehicles have been abandoned when:
         (a)   Weed or grass undergrowth would indicate to a reasonable person
that the vehicle has not been moved, thereby permitting such growth to occur;
         (b)   One or more tires or wheels are flat or missing, and the vehicle
or boat displays an expired license;
         (c)   Portions of the vehicle which are needed for its operation or
control are missing;
         (d)   The town has received reports from others as to the length of
time such vehicle has been standing in one place without being moved, or that
parts are being taken from or added to such vehicle, indicating a salvage or
garage operation; or
         (e)   Evidence exists that provisions of this code pertaining to
zoning or to junk and salvage yards are being violated.
      (2)   Notice to remove.
         (a)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, or other person
designated by the Board of Trustees, shall give notice of removal to the owner
or occupant of the private property where any junk vehicle or any abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or boat is located at least ten days
before the time set for compliance. It shall constitute sufficient notice when
a copy of a notice to remove is posted in a conspicuous place upon the private
property upon which the vehicle or boat is located.
         (b)   The notice to remove shall contain the demand for removal within
ten days, and the notice to remove shall state that upon failure to comply with
the notice to remove, the town may prosecute a criminal complaint and issue a
summons for failure to abate the nuisance or undertake such removal with the
costs to be levied against the owner of the junk vehicle or the occupant of the
property. Failure to remove the vehicle shall be an offense and shall be
punishable as provided in §
90.99(C) of this chapter.
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   Any person to whom any notice to remove is directed pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, or any duly authorized agent thereof, may file a
written request for a hearing before the Municipal Court within the ten-day
compliance period for the purpose of contesting the town demand for removal.
Such hearing shall be scheduled by the Municipal Court upon completion of
filing with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer of an application therefor.
      (2)   The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable, but not earlier
than five days after receipt of the request, and not later than 35 days after
such receipt. Notice of the time and place of hearing shall be directed to the
persons making the request. At any such hearing, the town and the persons to
whom the notice have been directed may introduce witnesses and evidence.
      (3)   Persons to whom the notice to remove is directed pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, or their duly authorized agent, shall appear in
Municipal Court pursuant to the citation or summons. Those convicted of failing
to abate a public nuisance pursuant to this subchapter shall be assessed court
costs in addition to any fine assessed by the Municipal Court as provided in §
90.99(C) of this chapter. If the public nuisance is abated prior to the hearing
date stated on the summons, and the person issued the summons to appear in
Municipal Court signs an affidavit before the Court Clerk attesting to the
abatement, the Town Attorney may dismiss the charges. The Municipal Court may,
for good cause, combine the hearing with the criminal action.
   (D)   Removal by town; notice.
      (1)   If the violation described in the notice to remove has not been
remedied within the ten-day period of compliance or in the event that a notice
requesting a hearing is timely filed, a hearing had and the existence of the
violation is affirmed by the Municipal Court, the Town Attorney shall institute
and prosecute additional charges on a daily basis for failure to abate the
nuisance, and the town shall, in its discretion, take possession of the junk
vehicle and remove it from the premises.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or hinder
anyone whom the town authorizes to enter upon private property for the purpose
of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Within 48 hours of the removal of such junk vehicle, the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer or other designated town employee shall give notice to the
owner of the junk vehicle, if known, that the vehicle or motor vehicle was
removed and that the vehicle has been impounded and stored for violation of
this subchapter. The notice shall give the location where the vehicle is stored
and the proper procedure for redeeming the vehicle, including costs of
redemption.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)
§ 90.43 DISPOSAL, SALE OR REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Disposal or sale.
      (1)   Upon removing a junk vehicle under the provisions of this
subchapter, the town shall, after ten days, cause it to be appraised. If the
vehicle appraises at $75 or less, the Chief of Police, or appropriate designee,
shall execute an affidavit so attesting and describing the vehicle, including
the license plates, if any, and stating the location and appraised value of the
vehicle or motor vehicle.
      (2)   After compliance herewith, the town may summarily dispose of the
vehicle or boat and execute a bill of sale. If the vehicle or boat is appraised
at over $75, notice of public sale shall be given and posted in three
conspicuous places within the town not less than ten days before the date of
the proposed sale.
   (B)   Redemption. The owner of any vehicle impounded under the provisions of
this subchapter may redeem such vehicle at any time after its removal, but
prior to the sale thereof, upon proof of ownership and payment to the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer of such sum as may be determined by the Board of Trustees and
fixed as the actual and reasonable expense of removal, plus storage.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4)
§ 90.44 REMOVAL COSTS.
   (A)   Liability for costs. Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard,
the owner or person in charge of the junk vehicle or other abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicle or boat on public or private property shall
be liable for all expenses reasonably incurred by the removal and disposition.
   (B)   Collection of costs.
      (1)   Upon failure of the owner or occupant of property on which a junk
vehicle has been removed by the town to pay the unrecovered expense incurred by
the town in such removal, the amount of the unrecovered cost may be added to
the municipal utility bills directed to the occupants of the private property
from which the junk vehicle was removed and may be recovered in the same manner
of such utility bills.
      (2)   The town may collect any reasonable sum due for the expense of
removal or sale by deducting same from the sale proceeds of any vehicle sold
under the provisions of this subchapter, after deducting therefrom proper fees
for storage and sale thereof.
      (3)   If the private property is not served by the municipal utilities,
or if collection efforts are not successful, the costs may be certified by the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer to the County Clerk, who shall add the same to the ad
valorem taxes assessed against the property, until paid, and shall be collected
in the same manner as ad valorem taxes against the property and, when
collected, shall be paid to the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.08 of this chapter, by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful
hereby, or declared to be a nuisance, an offense or a misdemeanor hereby, or
who shall fail to do any act required by any such provision, or who shall fail
to do any act when such provision declares such failure to be unlawful or to be
an offense or misdemeanor, or who shall violate any legal order or regulation
made pursuant to §§
90.01 through
90.08 of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day upon which any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9)
   (C)   In addition to the procedures for removal of vehicles, any person who
shall violate any of the provisions of §§
90.40 through
90.44 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of an offense
against the town. Each act in violation of any of the provisions hereof shall
constitute a separate offense and may be chargeable as such. Each day’s
continued violation of any of the provisions hereof, after proper notice, shall
constitute a separate offense and may be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Certain animals prohibited
   
91.03   Staking, pasturing animals
   
91.04   Noisy animals
   
91.05   Animal premises
Dogs
   
91.20   Rabies vaccination and license requirements
   
91.21   Number of dogs restricted
   
91.22   Location of kennels
   
91.23   Dogs at large prohibited
   
91.24   Vicious dogs
   
91.25   Impoundment, redemption and disposal requirements
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey or other animal or fowl.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, contracted with or
appointed by the town for the purpose of aiding the enforcement of this act or
any other law or ordinance relating to the licensure of animals, control of
animals or seizure and impoundment of animals, and including any state, county
or local law enforcement officer or other employee whose duties in whole or in
part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
   AT LARGE.
      (1)   Not under the control of the owner either by leash, chain, cord or
other suitable material attached to a collar or harness; or
      (2)   Not restrained securely within an enclosure or fence.
   HARBORING. Allowing any animal to habitually remain or lodge or to be fed
within a person’s home, store, yard, enclosure or place of business, or any
other premises in which such person resides or controls.
   KENNEL. Any place, other than a federal, state or municipal facility,
veterinary hospital or medical research institute, where more than five dogs
beyond the age of four months are kept, harbored, boarded, sheltered or bred.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning or keeping or harboring or
having control or custody of a dog.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog which has bitten or attempted to bite any person without
undue provocation, or which attacks, or barks or growls at the acts as if it
intends to attack or bite, or bites a person or persons, when not unduly
provoked.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-9-2007; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-9-
2023)
§ 91.02 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No animals, except dogs and cats, shall be kept or harbored within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 STAKING, PASTURING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine or pasture any animal on any
public school ground or other public property, federal, state, town or other,
on any railroad right-of-way, or any property without the consent of the person
owning or controlling such property.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 NOISY ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the town any dog or
other animal which, by barking, howling or otherwise, disturbs the peace and
quiet of any person or persons.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ANIMAL PREMISES.
   (A)   Sanitary premises. Every structure, pen, coop, enclosure or place
wherein an animal is kept or permitted shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition, devoid of rodents and vermin and free from objectionable
odors.
   (B)   Inspections authorized. Any town employee or official designated by
the Board of Trustees, upon complaint of any person, shall inspect any
structure or place where any animal is kept and may do so on his or her own
initiative. He or she may issue any such reasonable order as he or she may deem
necessary to the owner of such animal to cause such animal to be kept as
provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He
or she may make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any person for
violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order, but
this shall not abridge the right of others to make such complaint.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.20 RABIES VACCINATION AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Vaccination and license required; exemptions.
      (1)   The owner of a dog shall have the dog vaccinated against rabies by
a veterinarian or other authorized person every calendar year before January 1
thereof or, in the case of a pup, before he is three months old. The person
vaccinating the dog shall furnish the owner a certificate of vaccination.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep or cause to be kept
within the territorial limits of the town any dog over three months old without
first causing the dog to be vaccinated for rabies, presenting a valid
certificate of said vaccination to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer and obtaining a
license for the keeping of said dog within the town. The owner of the dog
shall, at the time of obtaining the license, register the dog by giving to the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer the name and address of the owner, the name, breed,
color and sex of the dog and such other reasonable information as the town’s
Clerk- Treasurer may request.
      (3)   The licensing requirement shall not apply to a dog only temporarily
brought and kept within the town, nor to a dog brought within the town to
participate in a dog show, nor to a guide dog when such dog is actually being
used by a person with disabilities to aid him or her in going from place to
place, nor to dogs being kept in kennels or pet shops for sale.
   (B)   License fee. There is hereby levied and assessed upon each dog kept or
owned within the town an annual license fee of $3 due and payable on January 1
of each year, and it is hereby made the duty of the owner of any dog to pay to
the town’s Clerk-Treasurer or her duly authorized agent the said license fee on
or before January 1 of each year.
   (C)   License tag.
      (1)   Required.
         (a)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
or her duly authorized agent shall furnish the owner of said dog or dogs with a
tag on which is stamped the number of registration with the year for which the
license is paid, which tag the owner shall attach to a collar securely fastened
around the neck of the dog, and no dog shall be allowed without the proper tag
attached to the collar around the neck of said dog.
         (b)   In no event shall the town’s Clerk-Treasurer or his or her duly
authorized agent issue a license tag to any owner of a dog unless and until
such owner shall furnish a vaccination certificate issued by a licensed
veterinarian stating that such dog or dogs have been vaccinated by him or her
against rabies.
         (c)   The owner shall cause the tag received from the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer to be affixed to the collar of the dog upon which the fee has been
paid so that the tag can easily be seen by officers of the town, and the owner
shall see that the tag is so worn by the dog at all times.
      (2)   Replacement tags. In case the tag is lost before the end of the
year for which it is issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by
applying to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, presenting to him or her the original
receipt and paying to him or her a fee of $3.
      (3)   Counterfeit tags, use of other tags prohibited. No person shall
counterfeit, or attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued for a dog as provided in
this division (C), or take from any dog a tag legally placed thereon, or place
such tag upon a dog for which the tag was not specifically issued.
   (D)   Unlicensed dog suspects; inspections authorized.
      (1)   If the authorized agent of the town or other officer has reason to
believe that there is an unvaccinated or unlicensed dog within the town located
on private property, such officer shall first request permission of the person
in control of said property to enter upon such property for the purpose of
inspection to determine if such a violation of this section exists.
      (2)   If permission is refused, such officer shall then obtain a search
warrant from the Municipal Judge or other judge or magistrate for the purpose
of entering upon such property for determining if said dog is licensed and
vaccinated.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 NUMBER OF DOGS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor or keep dogs totaling
more than three over the age of four months in any household. The owner or
occupant shall be held responsible for any violation of this section by any of
the members of such household.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6-2) (Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-9-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 LOCATION OF KENNELS.
   No dog kennel wherein dogs are kept shall be maintained closer than 40 feet
from any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail
food store, building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 DOGS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, having control over or having
custody of any dog to permit or allow such dog to run or be at large upon any
public highway, street, alley, court, square, park, sidewalk or any other
public grounds or public property within the corporate limits of the town. It
shall be unlawful for any person owning, having control over or having custody
of any dog to permit or allow such dog to run or be at large upon any unfenced
lot, tract or parcel of land, or for such dog to be unrestrained in some
nature, within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6-4; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-9-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Any person may kill a vicious or dangerous animal in his or her self-
defense, or in defense of another, or in defense of his or her personal
property, or in defense of an animal belonging to him or her.
   (B)   If any dog within the town which shall bite, scratch or otherwise
attack any person, if the person so attacked was not at the time trespassing
upon the property of the owner or person having control of such dog or if it
cannot be proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the person so attacked was
provoking or teasing such dog, the Municipal Court of the town shall have the
authority to order and hold a hearing, and if the Court shall determine at such
hearing that such dog is vicious or dangerous to persons or other animals, the
Court may order that such dog be muzzled, or that such dog be kept within a
sufficient enclosure, or that such dog be delivered to the authorized agent of
the town to be destroyed thereby.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6-5; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-9-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Impoundment. It shall be the duty of the authorized agent of the town
or any town police officer, while on duty, to seize all dogs found running at
large upon any unfenced lot, tract or parcel of land within the corporate
limits of the town, whether in the immediate presence of the owner or custodian
or otherwise, and the authorized agent of the town or town police officer is
hereby authorized to enter upon any unfenced lot, tract or parcel of land for
the purpose of seizing and impounding any dog running at large thereon.
   (B)   Application for release of dog.
      (1)   If any animal control officer has probable cause to believe a dog
is vicious or dangerous, or is a threat to the health, safety or welfare of any
person, livestock or other animals, the officer may seize and impound said dog.
Upon impoundment, the animal’s owner may make application to the Municipal
Court for release of the dog.
      (2)   If application is made, the animal shall be held until the
Municipal Court renders a decision determining that the animal is not vicious
or dangerous, or that the owner has complied with the requirements of O.S.
Title 4, §§ 44 et seq. The owner shall pay a holding fee of $5 per day and any
other licensing and vaccination fees applicable hereunder.
   (C)   Notice of impoundment; disposal.
      (1)   Licensed dogs.
         (a)   After the impounding of any licensed dog, the owner, if known,
shall be notified. If not redeemed within five days from the date of
impounding, said dog may be disposed of by destruction.
         (b)   If any dog captured by any authorized agent of the town is
wearing a town license, every attempt will be made to contact the owner to
retrieve the dog before impoundment penalties apply, unless the dog has already
been captured multiple times.
      (2)   Unlicensed dogs. If there is no license tag for the current year
attached to any dog impounded, and such dog has not been redeemed by its owner
within five days from the time of impounding, such dog shall be disposed of by
sale, adoption or destruction.
   (D)   Redemption and disposal fees.
      (1)   The owner of any licensed dog impounded may redeem such dog at any
time prior to destruction by the payment of $25, plus $5 a day for each day,
including the day of impoundment. The owner of any dog that is destroyed,
whether by request, necessity or violation, shall pay a fee of $20 per dog.
      (2)   The owner of any unlicensed dog impounded may redeem such dog at
any time prior to destruction by the payment of $25, plus $5 a day for each day
the dog was in the pound. The owner will pay an additional fee for a rabies
vaccination voucher to be redeemed at the Seiling Vet Clinic. Upon presenting
this voucher to the Seiling Vet Clinic, the clinic has agreed to provide rabies
shots at no additional cost to the dog owner. The owner of any dog that is
destroyed, whether by request, necessity or violation, shall pay a fee of $20
per dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6-6) (Ord. 2007-4, passed 10-9-2007; Ord. 2021-5, passed 9-
20-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner found violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in
§
10.99 of this code of ordinances for such offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6-7) (Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-9-2023)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practices
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in financing or housing
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
92.07   Exemptions
   
92.08   Administration
   
92.09   Education and conciliation
   
92.10   Enforcement
   
92.11   Investigations, subpoenas, giving of evidence
   
92.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
92.13   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
92.14   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04, 92.05 and 92.06 of this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed or intended for occupation as a residence by one or more families and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts and incorporated organizations, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let or otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
92.07 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in §
92.04 of this chapter shall apply to: all dwellings, except as exempted by
division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
92.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner:
         (a)   Provided that, such private individual owner does not own more
than three such single- family houses at any one time;
         (b)   Provided further that, in the case of the sale of any such
single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such house at
the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such house
prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this section shall apply only with
respect to one such sale within any 24-month period;
         (c)   Provided further that, such bona fide private individual owner
does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her
behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all
or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such
single-family houses at any one time; and
         (d)   Provided further that, the sale or rental of any such single-
family house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if
such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesperson or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any such facilities
or services of any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings or of
any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesperson or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04 of this chapter. However, nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as is necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the proceeding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the proceeding 12 months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sale or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and 92.07 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, disability or familial status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, disability or familial status;
   (C)   To make, print or publish or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability or familial status or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, disability or familial status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is, in fact, so
available; and
   (E)   To induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any
dwelling, for profit, by representations regarding the entry or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, sex,
color, religion, national origin, disability or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN FINANCING OR HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance because of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability
or familial status of such person or of any person associated with him or her
in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of
such loan or other financial assistance or of the present or prospective
owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation
to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given;
provided that, nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exception contained in §
92.03(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-5) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple- listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or
her in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on
account of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability or familial
status.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-6) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society or any non- profit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association
or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, disability or familial status; nor shall anything in this chapter
prohibit a private club not, in fact, open to the public which, as an incident
to its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of
such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-7) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 92.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the chief executive officer of the town.
   (B)   The chief executive officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties and powers to employees of the town or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties and powers, with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this chapter. The
chief executive officer shall, by rule, prescribe such rights of appeal from
the decisions of his or her hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to
other officers in the town, to boards of officers or to himself or herself, as
shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner to
affirmatively further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with the
chief executive officer to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-8) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 92.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the chief executive officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the
housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it
and shall endeavor, with their advice, to work out programs of voluntary
compliance and of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-9) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 92.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the chief executive officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the chief executive officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
chief executive officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) below, the chief executive officer shall investigate the complaint and give
notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve
it. If the chief executive officer decides to try to eliminate or correct the
alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation and persuasion, nothing said or done in the course of such
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and, with the leave of the chief executive officer which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the chief executive
officer, the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The chief executive officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the
respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights granted or protected by
this chapter insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint. If
the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about
to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such practice or
order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceedings brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action by an individual shall come to trial, the chief
executive officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-10) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 INVESTIGATIONS, SUBPOENAS, GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   (1)   In conducting an investigation, the chief executive officer
shall have access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents,
individuals and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine,
record and copy such materials and take and record the testimony or statement
of such persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the
investigation; provided, however, that, the chief executive officer first
complies with the provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable
searches and seizures.
      (2)   The chief executive officer may issue subpoenas to compel this
access to or the production of such materials or the appearance of such persons
and may issue interrogatories to a respondent to the same extent and subject to
the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were
issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United States District Court
for the district in which the investigation is taking place. The chief
executive officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   (1)   Upon written application to the chief executive officer, a
respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of
subpoenas by and in the name of the chief executive officer to the same extent
and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas by and in the name of the
chief executive officer to the same extent and subject to the same limitations
as subpoenas issued by the chief executive officer himself or herself.
      (2)   Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their
face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they were
issued at his request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the chief executive officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the chief executive officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The chief executive officer shall grant the petition if he or she
finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable
time or place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to
any matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous or for other good reason.
   (E)   In the case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the chief
executive officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the Municipal or State Court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts
business.
   (F)   The Town Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the chief
executive officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-11) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted herein by §§
92.03,
92.04,
92.05 and
92.06 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred:
      (1)   Provided, however, that, the Court shall continue such civil case
brought pursuant to this section or §
92.10(D) of this chapter from time to time before bringing it to trial if the
Court believes that the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer are
likely to result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing
practice complained of in the complaint made to the Chief Executive Officer and
which practice forms the basis for the action in court; and
      (2)   Provided, however, that, any sale, encumbrance or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any Court order issued under the authority
of this chapter and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant,
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter, shall not be affected.
   (B)   The Court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees in the case
of a prevailing plaintiff; provided that, the said plaintiff, in the opinion of
the Court, is not financially able to assume said attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-12) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 92.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any
other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by
§§
92.03,
92.04,
92.05 and
92.06 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-13) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, disability or familial status and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the
sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling or applying for
or participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating without discrimination on account of race, sex,
color, religion, national origin, disability or familial status in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, sex, color,
religion, national origin, disability or familial status, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above or from participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to so participate shall be fined
(Prior Code, § 6-6-15) (Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any employee of the chief executive officer who shall make public any
information in violation of §
92.10(A) of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000
or imprisoned more than one year.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-10)
   (C)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the chief executive officer shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent to
mislead the chief executive officer, shall make or cause to be made any false
entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record or other document
submitted to the chief executive officer pursuant to his or her subpoena or
other order or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to be made
full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or other
documents or shall willfully mutilate, alter or by any other means falsify any
documentary evidence shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more
than one year, or both.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-11)
   (D)   Any person violating §
92.14(C) shall be fined not more than $1,000; and, if bodily injury results,
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or
both; and, if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of
years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-15)
(Ord. 2018-7, passed 11-13-2018)
CHAPTER 93: RECREATION AND LEISURE
Section
   
93.01   Public library
   
93.02   Public parks
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   (A)   Multi-county library system.
      (1)   Organized per statute authority; composition.
         (a)   A multi-county library system, legally organized and operated
according to the laws of the state in accordance with the state’s Library Code,
and the Constitution of the state, Art. 10, § 10A, serves the following
counties: Custer; Dewey; and Washita; provided, however, that, additional
counties may be added to the District if approved by the state’s Department of
Libraries Board.
         (b)   The town is located within the district served by said multi-
county library system legally established and operating.
      (2)   Participation by town. The town is the possessor of the Seiling
Public Library and operates it for the benefit of the people of the town and
under the benefit of the people of the town, and under the provisions of the
state’s Library Code, the town is a legally and active participant in the
multi-county library system.
      (3)   Governing board. The governing board of the multi-county library
system consists of three members from each county appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners; provided that, by 4-6-1970, Board members shall be
reconstituted to conform with the provisions of 65 O.S. § 4-103.
      (4)   Funding. The multi-county library system is supported by a special
recurring ad valorem tax levy approved by vote of the people for this purpose
and by funds from other sources appropriated or otherwise made available for
this purpose in accordance with the state’s Library Code and the Constitution
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
   (B)   Town Library. The Seiling Public Library is hereby incorporated into
the multi-county library system in accordance with the provisions of the
state’s Library Code, and the town will provide suitable quarters and
maintenance and necessary utility services of such quarters for the Seiling
Public Library, and the multi-county library system will assume the operation
and direction of said library and bear all other expenses; except that, the
town may, from time to time at its option, appropriate funds for the operation
and/or improvements of the Seiling Public Library.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)
   (C)   Library Advisory Board.
      (1)   Created; members. The town’s Public Library Advisory Board of the
Town Board is hereby created. The Library Advisory Board shall consist of six
appointive members.
      (2)   Appointment and terms. The Mayor shall appoint two members on or
before May 1 of each year. The term of office of each appointive member shall
be for three years, beginning May 1 of the year of appointment or until a
successor has been appointed and qualified. The present Board of the Seiling
Library shall become members of the Library Advisory Board and shall continue
in office until their respective terms expire.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 O.S. §§ 1-101 through 7-102
§ 93.02 PUBLIC PARKS.
   (A)   Declaration of public parks; compliance with provisions. All places
heretofore owned by the town and used as parks are hereby declared to be public
parks within the meaning of this section, and are subject to the rules and
regulations set out in this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   Defacing, improper use of property. No person shall write upon or
mark or deface in any manner or use in any improper way any water closet, park
seat, building, fence or other property in any park.
      (2)   Injury to, removal of property. No person shall break, cut,
mutilate or injure, remove or carry away any trees, shrubs, plants, flowers,
stone or stone walk, bench, stand, structure, fence or anything whatsoever in,
upon or near any park.
      (3)   Nuisance; indecent conduct. No person shall commit any nuisance or
any offense against decency and good morals in the parks.
      (4)   Littering.
         (a)   No person shall throw stones or rubbish of any kind into any
lake, pond or stream or other place in the parks, except into receptacles
designated for that purpose.
         (b)   No person shall foul in any manner any pool, spring or drinking
fountain in any park.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)
   (C)   Permit required for peddling. No person shall set up any booth, table,
stand or device for vending or retailing any candies, ice cream or other
articles whatsoever without being in compliance with §§
111.30 through
111.38 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
93.02 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
94.01   Limits for storage of flammable liquids and explosives
   
94.02   New materials, processes and occupancies; permits
   
94.03   Fireworks
   
94.04   Flammable liquids sales
   
94.05   Appeals
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Flammable liquids.
      (1)   The limits referred to in the Fire Prevention Code in which storage
of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited are hereby
established as those use districts created by the zoning regulations of the
town wherein such storage is prohibited.
      (2)   The limits referred to in the Fire Prevention Code in which new
bulk plants for flammable liquids are prohibited, are hereby established as
those use districts created by the zoning regulations of the town wherein such
bulk plants are prohibited.
   (B)   Explosives and blasting agents. The limits referred to in the Fire
Prevention Code in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is
prohibited are hereby established as the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES AND OCCUPANCIES; PERMITS.
   (A)   The town’s Board of Trustees and the Chief of the Fire Department
shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving affected
persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies
which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the code.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall post such list in a conspicuous
place in his or her office and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2)
§ 94.03 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Discharges restricted to certain days and hours. It shall be unlawful
and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to discharge or ignite, or
to in any manner aid, assist or abet in discharging or igniting, any
firecrackers of any size, type or description, skyrockets, pistols, torpedoes,
Roman candles, flash salutes, flash crackers, balloons or other fireworks, or
substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic display within the corporate
limits of the town, except on each July 3 and 4, between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 12:00 midnight.
   (B)   Prohibited sales. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, at any time, to sell, or in any manner to aid, assist or abet in
selling, any firecrackers of any type or description, skyrockets, pistols,
torpedoes, Roman candles, flash salutes, flash crackers, balloons or other
fireworks, or substances designed and intended for pyrotechnic display, within
the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3) (Ord. 2018-3, passed 8-13-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS SALES.
   (A)   Sales through coin-operated machines prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to vend any inflammable liquid, such as
gasoline, motor fuel or other derivative of petroleum, or any of its
byproducts, from any automatic vendor or vending machine whereby a coin is
deposited by the purchaser and such liquid automatically dispensed by such
vending machine, within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Nuisance sales. By reason of the hazards entailed in the handling of
inflammable liquids, such as gasoline, motor fuel or other derivative of
petroleum, and its byproducts, in addition to the penalties provided herein,
the vending or furnishing of any such inflammable liquids, except as herein
provided, is declared to be a nuisance and may be abated as other nuisances
provided by the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a license or permit for which applied, the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the town’s Board of
Trustees within 30 days from the date of the decision of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-6)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   SALES AND SERVICES
      
112.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Location restrictions
   
110.03   ABLE governance
   
110.04   Certificates of compliance
   
110.05   Occupational tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, words and phrases shall have the same meaning as
defined pursuant to the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, at 37A O.S. §§
1-101 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 2018-6, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.02 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any package store, mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle club which has been
licensed by the ABLE Commission and which has as its main purpose the selling
or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or package
store, to be located within 300 feet of any public or private school or church
property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities.
   (B)   The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such public or private school or church to the nearest
perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage establishment, beer
and wine establishment, bottle club or package store which has been licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments or
bottle clubs, which have been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-
premises consumption or retail package stores prior to 11-1-2000; provided, if
at the time of application for license renewal the licensed location has not
been in actual operation for a continuous period of more than 60 days, the
license shall not be renewed; or
      (2)   Establishments licensed prior to 10-1-2018 to sell low-point beer
which were permitted to be located within 300 feet of any public or private
school or church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and
religious activities. Such establishments shall be permitted to have any
license in effect on 10-1-2018 transferred to a mixed beverage license;
provided, if such an establishment ceases to regularly be open to the public or
changes ownership, the provisions of this division (C)(2) shall cease to apply.
   (D)   If any school or church shall be established within 300 feet of any
package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or
bottle club subject to the provisions of this section after such package store,
mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle club has
been licensed, the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the
renewal of such license if there has not been a lapse of more than 60 days.
When any mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle
club subject to the provisions of this section which has a license to sell
alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption, or package store, changes
ownership or the operator thereof is changed and such change of ownership
results in the same type of business being conducted on the premises, the
provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the issuance of a
license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise qualified.
   (E)   Any interested party may protest a location as follows:
      (1)   Any interested party may protest the application for or granting of
a license for a package store, or for a mixed beverage establishment, beer and
wine establishment or bottle club which has as its main purpose the selling or
serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, based on an
alleged violation of this section. To be considered by ABLE Commission, the
protest must:
         (a)   Be submitted in writing;
         (b)   Be signed by the person protesting;
         (c)   Contain the mailing address and address of residence, if
different from the mailing address of the protester;
         (d)   Contain the title of the person signing the protest, if the
person is acting in an official capacity as a church or school official; and
         (e)   Contain a concise statement explaining why the application is
being protested.
      (2)   Within 30 days of the date of receipt of a written protest, the
ABLE Commission shall conduct a hearing on the protest if the protest meets the
requirements of division (E)(1) above.
      (3)   As used in this division (E), INTERESTED PARTY means:
         (a)   A parent or legal guardian whose child or children attend the
church or school which is alleged to be closer to the mixed beverage
establishment, bottle club or beer and wine establishment which has as its main
purpose the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the
premises, or package store, than is allowed by this section;
         (b)   An official of a church which is alleged to be closer to the
mixed beverage establishment, bottle club or beer and wine establishment which
has as its main purpose the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises, or package store, than is allowed by this section;
or
         (c)   An official of a school which is alleged to be closer to the
mixed beverage establishment, bottle club or beer and wine establishment which
has as its main purpose the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises, or package store, than is allowed by this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 2018-6, passed 3-11-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 ABLE GOVERNANCE.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, all matters relating to
the regulation of alcoholic beverages shall be governed by the provisions of
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, codified in 37A O.S., except as may be
provided for by the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 2018-6, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.04 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Town Clerk-Treasurer to
issue certificates of compliance with municipal zoning ordinances.
      (2)   Applicants shall furnish to the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer
such information as the town staff may require, together with bond or surety
sufficient to satisfy the occupational tax imposed by this chapter.
      (3)   Said bond or surety shall be payable to the town at such time as
the applicant is licensed by the ABLE Commission.
   (B)    An applicant’s proposed location and use thereof shall be in
conformance with the laws of the state and with the ordinances of the town and
shall pass all necessary Health, Safety and Fire Code inspections from the
State of Oklahoma or no certificate of compliance shall issue. The Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall act with regard to and with the direction of the Town Council,
the issuance or refusal of said certificates of compliance within 20thirty (30)
days after the receipt of an application therefor.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 2018-6, passed 3-11-2019; amd. Ord. 2025-3, 4-14-
2025)
§ 110.05 OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   (A)   The fee schedule hereinafter set forth, shall be levied and collected
by the Town Clerk- Treasurer, or the Clerk-Treasurer’s designee, for the
applicable license, fees, permits or occupational tax levies, prior to the
issuance of any such license permit or conducting of the business of serving
alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   There is hereby levied upon each person, firm, partnership or
corporation holding a license for a principal place of business located in the
town an annual occupation tax in the following amounts:
Bottle club                                      $100
Class B wholesaler - interim beer distributor    $100
Distiller                                        $100
Large brewer                                     $100
Mixed beverage                                   $100
Mixed beverage/caterer combination               $100
Oklahoma winemaker                               $100
On-premises beer and wine                        $100
Package store retailer                           $100
Rectifier                                        $100
Retail beer                                      $100
Retail wine                                      $100
Small brewer                                     $100
Special event (per day)                          $100
Wholesaler - interim wine and spirits wholesaler $100
Winemaker                                        $100
 
   (C)   The tax hereby levied shall be paid no later than July 1 following the
issuance or renewal of a liquor license by the state and on or before the same
day for each year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 2018-6, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to timely pay to the town any initial or renewal occupation tax as
required hereunder shall constitute a municipal offense, the penalty for which
upon conviction shall be fined in an amount not to exceed the maximum amount
provided by law, excluding court costs, or by imprisonment as provided by law,
or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day in which such tax remains due and
unpaid shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 2018-6, passed 3-11-2019)
CHAPTER 111: SALES AND SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Obstructing public ways
Specific Businesses
   
111.15   Building contractors
   
111.16   Garage, yard and neighborhood sales
   
111.17   Auctions
   
111.18   Amusement centers; Sunday operation
Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient Merchants
   
111.30   Definitions
   
111.31   Licenses required; fees
   
111.32   Applications for licenses
   
111.33   Display of license
   
111.34   Revocation of license
   
111.35   Location restrictions
   
111.36   Uninvited soliciting
   
111.37   Food sales
   
111.38   Exemptions from provisions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or
permit to be placed upon sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys, any goods,
wares, articles or merchandise, or any other obstruction, and leave same
thereon, or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or trade without
first obtaining permission from the town’s Board of Trustees.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct
sidewalks in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian traffic
thereon, or to use or obstruct streets and alleys in any manner so as to
interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon without first
obtaining permission from the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3) Penalty, see §
111.99
SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
§ 111.15 BUILDING CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   All persons desiring to do plumbing, mechanical or electrical work
within the town shall have secured a town license before any work for the
installation or repair of plumbing, mechanical or electrical shall be started.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
   (B)   The license fee for plumbers, mechanical licensures and electricians
shall be $50 for the first year and $25 for each year thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
   (C)   All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. If a license has
expired and is to be revived, the revival fee shall be the same as for a new
license unless it has not lapsed for a period of more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
   (D)   It shall be the duty of every person doing plumbing, mechanical or
electrical work to show his or her town license to the proper town inspector or
to the Chief of Police when either shall ask to see the same.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4)
   (E)   The proper town inspector is hereby authorized to cancel and recall
the town license of any plumber, mechanical licensure or electrician who has
been convicted of a violation of the Building Codes adopted by the town, or who
refuses to do any specified job or work in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the proper town inspector.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5)
(Ord. 2018-5, passed 8-13-2018; Ord. 2021-9, passed 9-20-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 11 O.S. § 11-22-106
§ 111.16 GARAGE, YARD AND NEIGHBORHOOD SALES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the terms GARAGE SALE, YARD SALE,
NEIGHBORHOOD SALE, COMMUNITY SALE and/or PORCH SALE shall mean any collection
of items/merchandise offered for sale, that is open or advertised to the
public, conducted from or at a residence (single-family, duplex or apartment)
or within any area zoned residential, and includes the sale of tangible
personal property. Garage sales/yard sales shall not include sales on
commercial lots.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
   (B)   (1)   Permit required; fee. Prior to conducting a garage or similar
sale within the town, the person conducting the same is required to obtain a
permit from the town’s Clerk-Treasurer or designee. The fee for such permit
shall be $5 as set by town’s Board of Trustees by motion or resolution.
      (2)   Application for permit. Request for application to conduct the sale
shall be made at the Town Hall. The request must include the name of the
applicant, address of the applicant, location of the sale and dates of the
sale.
      (3)   Issuance of permit. Payments will be accepted at the Town Hall, and
a permit shall be issued to the requesting party upon approval of the sale.
Permits shall be issued prior to the close of business at least a day prior to
the sale.
      (4)   Display of permit. The permit must be clearly posted at the
location of the sale for the duration of the sale.
      (5)   Failure to obtain permit. Sales conducted without a current permit
will result in a non- compliance fee of $75 per day.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2)
   (C)   No sale may exceed three consecutive days, and per location, no more
than four permits shall be issued in any calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
   (D)   Signs and sale items may not obstruct the public right-of-way. Signs
and all evidence of signage (tape, adhesive, streamers, balloons and the like)
as well as sale items must be removed at the conclusion of the sale. Any
signage or sale items not removed will result in a non-compliance fee of $75
per day.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-4)
   (E)   Sale items, trailers, exhibits or signage may not be displayed or sold
in the public right-of-way, such as on a sidewalk or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-5)
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 4-14-2014) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 AUCTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to hold any public or private auction for sale
of property on any of the streets or sidewalks of the town; provided that, this
section shall not apply to the sale of property under any lien or execution or
order of any court of the state or of the United States of America.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 AMUSEMENT CENTERS; SUNDAY OPERATION.
   No amusement or recreation hall or pool or billiard hall may be operated
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 111.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL. Soliciting for a business purpose which is intended to be for
profit and is not intended to be charitable, religious, not-for-profit or
political.
   ITINERANT. Having no regular place of doing business or soliciting in the
town and includes, but is not limited to, making regular delivery or providing
goods over an established route through the town.
   PEDDLER. A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided from stocks or goods carried with the peddler or which are
services provided by the peddler at the time the order is made.
   SOLICITING. All activities of peddlers, solicitors and vendors attempting to
obtain business. Such activities may include, but are not limited to, coming
personally onto any property for the purposes defined herein; or calling or
inviting any prospective customers to purchase or obtain merchandise, product
or service.
   SOLICITOR. A person soliciting commercial orders for goods or services which
are to be provided or shipped to the consumer at a later date.
   VENDOR. Any person engaged in a business or occupation selling or offering
to sell any merchandise, product or service and includes, but is not limited
to, peddlers and solicitors.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 111.31 LICENSES REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   Any itinerant vendor, solicitor or peddler shall obtain a license from
the town prior to any soliciting in the town, unless exempted herein, to cover
each person who will be soliciting and each location or separate place of
business. The fee for said license is $100 per day.
   (B)   Owners or lessees of buildings or properties in which itinerant
vendors operate or locate must obtain a blanket license covering all itinerant
vendors who will be established in the building or on the property controlled
by the owner or lessee. The fee for said license is $100 per year. The fees set
out in this section may be waived for educational, charitable and religious
groups qualifying as 501(c)(3) organizations who make house to house
solicitations.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
§ 111.32 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   Applicants for licenses shall file with the licensing officer, during
regular business hours, a written application signed by the applicant if an
individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by a qualified corporate
officer if a corporation, showing:
   (A)   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated;
   (B)   The place or places in the town within the proper zoning
classification where it is proposed to carry on the applicant’s business and
the length of time during which it is proposed that the business be conducted;
   (C)   The nature of the goods or products being sold;
   (D)   A statement that the applicant agrees to the requirement to pay all
state and town sales taxes due on all items which are subject to sales taxes;
   (E)   Current state sales tax permit number;
   (F)   Current license or permit, if any, which may be required by state law
or ordinances of the town for the particular activity or business;
   (G)   If a motor vehicle is to be used in the business, a description of the
vehicle, together with motor vehicle registration number, the license number
for the vehicle and proof of liability insurance required by state law; and
   (H)   Proof of 501(c)(3) tax status if claiming exemption from the license
fees.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
§ 111.33 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every holder of a license to engage in “peddling”, as defined in §
111.30 of this chapter, shall conspicuously display the license at all times in
some part of his or her place of business or activity where it may be readily
seen by the person who has entered the place, or if he or she has no particular
place of business or activity, he or she shall carry the license and shall
display it to any person who requests to see it.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-4)
§ 111.34 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued for any stand or fixed establishment for the purpose of
peddling goods, wares or merchandise may be revoked at any time on breach of
any conditions or on complaint in writing by any person living, residing or
rooming within 300 feet of the same.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-5)
§ 111.35 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent to peddle any
merchandise in, along or upon the streets, avenues, alleys or sidewalks within
the limits of the town, except Main Street.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-6) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 UNINVITED SOLICITING.
   (A)   Prohibited; nuisance declared. The practice of going in and upon
private residences in the town by any peddler who has not been requested or
invited to do so by the owners or occupants of said private residence shall be
declared to be a nuisance and punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Nuisance abatement. The town police are hereby required and directed
to suppress the same and to abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 FOOD SALES.
   All applicants for a license to sell foods and merchandise for human or
animal consumption shall have their application for license approved in
accordance with the applicable state food establishment requirements before the
licenses are issued.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-8)
§ 111.38 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The following are exempt from the license requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Town resident, merchant or organization or a person or organization
whose principal place of residence or principal place of business is located
within 14 miles of the corporate limits of the town;
   (B)   The sale at retail of locally grown fruits and vegetables which
require peeling or cooking prior to consumption; and
   (C)   Needy ex-service persons holding a certificate duly issued by a
district judge having jurisdiction, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-9)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association or corporation, who shall engage in any
business, profession, trade or occupation, or exercise any privilege, or who
shall violate any provision of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Every day upon which a violation occurs or
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4)
   (B)   Any person guilty of perpetrating a nuisance as described in §
111.36 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-7)
CHAPTER 112: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
Section
   
112.01   Permits; location regulations
   
112.02   Security provisions for personal-use growing facilities
   
112.03   Town not liable
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PERMITS; LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Medical marijuana business permits and licensing requirements. All
persons or business entities required by the state to be licensed as a medical
marijuana commercial growing facility, medical marijuana dispensary, medical
marijuana processing facility or medical marijuana transporter and doing
business in the town are required to register with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and
pay an annual permit fee of $500 for each of the businesses listed above to be
operated by the registrant. Failure to renew the annual permit within 30 days
after expiration shall void registration and business operations may be revoked
or suspended until permit compliance is obtained. The location of the proposed
medical marijuana business must be properly zoned prior to registration.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-1)
   (B)   Location restrictions for medical marijuana commercial grow
facilities, medical marijuana dispensaries, medical marijuana processing
facilities and medical marijuana transporters.
      (1)   Medical marijuana business permits will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of
public or private school entrances. The distance specified shall be measured
from any entrance of the school to the nearest property point of the medical
marijuana business.
      (2)   Medical marijuana business permits will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location is not allowed by the town’s zoning
ordinances.
      (3)   Medical marijuana business permits will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within 300 feet of any
church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities, with said distance measured from the nearest property line of such
church property to the nearest perimeter wall of the proposed medical marijuana
business.
      (4)   Medical marijuana business permits will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within 300 feet of any
public park, pool or recreational facility, with said distance measured from
the nearest property line of such public park, pool or recreational facility to
the nearest perimeter wall of the proposed medical marijuana business.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-20-2021; Ord. 2022-3,
passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 SECURITY PROVISIONS FOR PERSONAL-USE GROWING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for marijuana
cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key, or
equivalent, at all times, except when the residential facility is actively
being supervised in person by the holder of an Oklahoma state-issued medical
marijuana license.
   (B)   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to the
interior of a single private residence.
   (C)   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes
a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing
marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (D)   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is
grown shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning
cooking, eating, sleeping and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress
and egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation
will impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping or
sanitation/bathing.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-2) (Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-14-
2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 TOWN NOT LIABLE.
   By accepting a license issued pursuant to this chapter, the licensee
releases the town, its officers, elected officials, employees, attorneys and
agents from any liability for injuries, damages or liabilities of any kind that
result from any arrest or prosecution of retail marijuana store or facility
owners, operators, employees, clients or customers for a violation of state or
federal laws, rules or regulations. The Town Clerk-Treasurer may require the
licensee to execute a written instrument confirming the provision of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-4) (Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500. Each day that a
violation of this chapter continues shall be considered a separate offense, and
such violation may be charged and conviction had for each day that such
violation continues or is allowed to continue.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-3) (Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-8-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Attempt to commit offense
   
130.02   Aiding in offense
   
130.03   Assisting law enforcement personnel
   
130.04   Resisting, eluding police
   
130.05   Escape from custody
   
130.06   Impersonating a public official
   
130.07   False representation; perjury
Offenses Involving Peace and Persons
   
130.20   Assault and battery
   
130.21   Unlawful assemblies
   
130.22   Disturbing the peace, worship and assemblies
   
130.23   Insulting items and language
   
130.24   Weapons
   
130.25   Indecent conduct
   
130.26   Vagrancy; begging; sleeping in public
   
130.27   Curfew
   
130.28   Social hosting
Offenses Involving Property
   
130.40   Petit larceny
   
130.41   Receiving stolen property
   
130.42   Tampering with, damaging, destruction of property
   
130.43   Placing signs and advertisements
   
130.44   Throwing or shooting objects
   
130.45   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
130.46   Illegal entrance
   
130.47   Littering; disposal of burning substances
   
130.48   False fire alarms
   
130.49   Removal of barricades
Offenses Involving Alcoholic Beverages and Controlled Substances
   
130.60   Unlawful manufacture, location or sale of alcoholic beverages
   
130.61   Presence on premises providing alcoholic beverages unlawfully
   
130.62   Unlawful possession or transportation of alcoholic beverages
   
130.63   Public intoxication
   
130.64   Driving under influence of intoxicants
   
130.65   Marijuana prohibitions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   Any person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town and, in such attempt, does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or is intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is
guilty of an offense and shall be punishable in the manner prescribed for the
attempted offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 AIDING IN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinances, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of the offense is guilty of an
offense, or misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal
offender.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 ASSISTING LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   Law enforcement personnel of the town making or about to make an arrest, or
executing or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with
the ordinances of the town or with state or federal law, or suppressing or
about to suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly may call upon a person or
persons to assist him or her in making such arrest, executing such process or
suppressing such riot, affray or unlawful assembly. It is unlawful for any
person lawfully called upon to assist any law enforcement personnel to refuse
or fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 RESISTING, ELUDING POLICE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to resist, hinder or obstruct in any
manner any police officer or other person or persons authorized to enforce the
ordinances of the town and the state in the discharge of their duties including
to threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any person or
persons in the discharge of their official duties or to assault, beat, revile,
abuse or use abusive language toward any officer or employee while such officer
or employee is in the discharge of his or her official duties.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a
visible and audible signal, a red light and siren from a police officer,
driving a motor vehicle showing the same to be an official police vehicle,
directing an operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, to increase his or
her speed, extinguish his or her lights, or do any other act which is
deliberately calculated to resist the stop or to elude such an officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 ESCAPE FROM CUSTODY.
   It is unlawful for any person confined in the county jail or other place of
confinement by the town, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the town in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC OFFICIAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer or employee of the
town, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers
of an officer or employee of the town without being duly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 FALSE REPRESENTATION; PERJURY.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the town government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiations with, such officer or agency, or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES INVOLVING PEACE AND PERSONS
§ 130.20 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer, with force or
violence, to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person
of another.
   (B)   Prohibitions. It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the town, and any person committing an assault or an assault and
battery within the town is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It is unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together or, being
assembled together, to act in concert, to do any unlawful act against the
peace, or to the terror of others, or to make any movement thereto or any
preparation therefor or otherwise to assemble together unlawfully or riotously.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 DISTURBING THE PEACE, WORSHIP AND ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Disturbing the peace.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of another or
others by violent, obstreperous or improper conduct or carriage, by loud or
unusual noise, or by unseemly, obscene, offensive or abusive language, or to
insult another or others by such conduct or language.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to disturb the
peace and quiet of any part of the town by operating, having operated, or
permitting to be operated any contrivance, whether electric or not, with or
without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise or words.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-3)
   (B)   Disturbing religious worship. It is unlawful for any person to disturb
any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for religious worship by making
noise; by rude, indecent or improper behavior; by profane, improper or loud
language; or in any other manner, either within the place of worship or within
hearing distance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-4)
   (C)   Disturbing public assemblies. It is unlawful for any person to disturb
lawful public gatherings or assemblies by making noise; by rude, indecent or
improper behavior; by profane, improper or loud language; or in any other
manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-5)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 INSULTING ITEMS AND LANGUAGE.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation
within the town to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device which, in
its common acceptance, is insulting, profane or abusive to the citizens of the
town, and which is calculated, or where the natural consequence is, to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault. It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person to circulate any literature or use any language within the corporate
limits of the town that casts profane ridicule on any faith which, in its
common acceptance, is calculated to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 WEAPONS.
   (A)   Certain weapons prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to carry
upon or about his or her person, either concealed or not concealed, any pistol,
revolver, Bowie knife, dirk, dagger, metal knuckle or other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument, except when doing so in the line of duty or as may be
permitted by law.
   (B)   Discharging firearms, air rifles and BB guns.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm in the town,
except when doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of
oneself, or another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law
or ordinance.
      (2)   It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun in the town.
   (C)   Transporting firearms. It is unlawful to transport a loaded firearm in
any motorized vehicle within the town limits, except as may be specifically
provided by state law, 21 O.S. §§ 1272 through 1289.23.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 INDECENT CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in a lewd or
indecent manner or in a manner offensive to the good morals of the town, or to
perform any act which is detrimental to the good morals of the town, in any
public or private place within the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 VAGRANCY; BEGGING; SLEEPING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Vagrancy.
      (1)   Definition. The following persons are VAGRANTS within the meaning
of this division (A):
         (a)   An idle person who lives without any means, or who has no
visible means of support and makes no exertion to obtain a livelihood by honest
employment;
         (b)   Any person who strolls or loiters about the streets of the town,
having no local habitation and no honest business or employment;
         (c)   Any person who strolls about to tell fortunes or to exhibit
tricks not licensed in accordance with law or ordinances;
         (d)   Any common prostitute, any manager or controller of a house of
prostitution or ill fame or anyone employed therein as a barkeeper, caller of
figures for dances or habitual frequenter thereof;
         (e)   Any professional gambler or gambler commonly known as a tinhorn
gambler, card player or cardsharp;
         (f)   Any person who goes about to beg alms who is not afflicted or
disabled by a physical malady or misfortune;
         (g)   Any habitual drunkard; and/or
         (h)   Any person who abandons or neglects or refuses to support his or
her family.
      (2)   Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to be a vagrant in the
town, and any person who is a vagrant in the town shall be punishable as
provided in this code.
   (B)   Begging. It is unlawful for any person to beg alms from any person,
organization or agency, except as an organization or agency, public or private,
whose purpose or one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need.
   (C)   Sleeping in public. It is unlawful for any person to sleep on any
street, in any other public place or on any property of another without the
express or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge of such place.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
         (d)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      PUBLIC PLACE.
         (a)   Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or place
to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business,
entertainment or other lawful purpose.
         (b)   A PUBLIC PLACE shall include, but not be limited to, any store,
shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, café, theater, drugstore, pool room,
shopping center and any other place devoted to amusement or entertainment of
the general public.
         (c)   The term shall also include the front or immediate area
described herein.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the
streets, including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors)
totaling four or more persons in which any minor involved would not be using
the streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going
home.
      STREET. A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or, in the case of
a sidewalk thereof, for pedestrian travel. The term STREET includes the legal
right-of-way including, but not limited to, the cartway or traffic lanes, the
curb, the sidewalks, whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other
grounds found within the legal right-of-way of a street.
      TIME OF NIGHT. Is based on the prevailing standard of time, whether
Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Time, generally observed at that hour
by the public.
      YEAR OF AGE. Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to, but
not including, the day of the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that 17 or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent to the
phrase under 18 years of age.
   (B)   Age and hour restrictions. It is unlawful for any person 17 years of
age or less to be or remain in any public place or upon the streets in the town
on foot, or to cruise about without a set destination in any vehicle in, about
or upon any public place in the town between the hours ending at 6:00 a.m. and
beginning at 10:00 p.m., Sunday through Thursday, and at 12:00 midnight, Friday
and Saturday, unless:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed or permitted by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor;
      (3)   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation; or
      (4)   The minor is on the premises of his or her home with the permission
of the minor’s parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody
or control of the minor.
   (C)   Responsibility of businesses. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly permit
or suffer the presence of minors between the hours of curfew designated in
division (B) above.
   (D)   Responsibility of parent or guardian. It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody or control of any
minor to suffer or permit or be in efficient control to allow such person to be
on any public place within the town between the hours of curfew designated in
division (B) above.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Enumerated. The provisions of this section do not apply if:
         (a)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or
other adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
         (b)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed by his or her parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
having the care and custody of the minor; or
         (c)   The parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a
missing person notification to the town’s Police Department.
      (2)   Special events. The town’s Board of Trustees may permit, by
resolution or motion, procedures or advance notice or registration with the
town of special events or functions sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or
other organizations which require minors to be out at a later time.
      (3)   Application for exemption; grant or denial.
         (a)   A parent, guardian or custodian of such minor may file a written
application directed to the town’s Chief of Police, who may grant a special
exemption of enforcement of the curfew provided by this section being required
as to such minor, which exemption shall not exceed five consecutive days or, in
the alternative, two days of any week for a period of not to exceed 30 days.
All requests shall be filed with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer or designee.
         (b)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to grant or reject
any request for an exemption to enforcement of the curfew provided by this
section or may reduce the time limit of such exemption. However, any applicant
for such exemption feeling aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police may
file a request for hearing before the Judge of the Municipal Court of the town
who shall summarily hear same, and his or her judgment shall be final.
   (F)   Enforcement.
      (1)   A child under 18 years of age who is taken into custody for the
alleged violation of this section may be held temporarily under the care of a
peace officer or other person employed by the Police Department only until the
parent of the child, legal guardian, legal custodian, attorney or other
responsible adult assumes custody or, if such a person cannot be located within
a reasonable time of the taking of the child into custody or if such a person
refuses to assume custody, until temporary shelter is found for the child.
      (2)   The temporary custody provided by this division (F) shall be
utilized as a means of returning the child to the home of the child or other
place of shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1) (Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-13-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 SOCIAL HOSTING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and
every liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which
contains 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
This term includes intoxicating beverages, as defined herein.
      GATHERING. A party, gathering or event where a group of three or more
persons has assembled or is assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
      INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. A beverage containing more than 3% alcohol by
weight.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, by court order, is the guardian of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
the court.
      MINOR. Any person under 21 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, a foster parent, an adoptive
parent or a stepparent of another person.
      PREMISES. Any residence or other private place or premises, including any
property, commercial or business premises.
      RESPONSE COSTS. The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire and other emergency response providers to a gathering, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire
or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding
to, remaining at or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the administrative
costs attributable to such response(s);
         (b)   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at or leaving the scene of a gathering;
         (c)   The cost of repairing any town equipment or property damaged,
and the cost of the use of any such equipment in responding to, remaining at or
leaving the scene of a gathering; and
         (d)   Any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
section.
   (B)   Consumption by minor. Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful
for any minor to:
      (1)   Consume any alcoholic beverage at any public place or any place
open to the public; or
      (2)   Consume at any place not open to public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage the minor
is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   (C)   Hosting or permitting a gathering.
      (1)   Duty of host.
         (a)   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises who
knowingly hosts, permits or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering.
         (b)   Reasonable steps are controlling access to alcoholic beverages
at the gathering, controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages present at
the gathering, verifying the age of persons attending the gathering by
inspecting driver’s licenses or other government issued identification cards to
ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the gathering,
and supervising the activities of minors at the gathering.
      (2)   Prohibitions. It is unlawful for any person having control of any
premises to knowingly host, permit or allow a gathering to take place at said
premises where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the
person having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an
alcoholic beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an
alcoholic beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the
consumption of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in division (C)(1)
above.
      (3)   Exemptions.
         (a)   This division (C) shall not apply to conduct involving the use
of alcoholic beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her
parent or legal guardian.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (C) should be interpreted to prohibit
any family activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the
use of alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents
and guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family gathering and is found
in public, then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same
manner as a non- family gathering.
         (c)   Nothing in this division (C) should be interpreted to prohibit
any religious practice, which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor
leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public,
then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
non-religious gathering.
         (d)   This division (C) shall not apply to any premises licensed by
the state to dispense alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply where prohibited or preempted
by state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2) (Ord. 2008-9, passed 11-10-2008; Ord. 2018-6, passed 3-
11-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
§ 130.40 PETIT LARCENY.
   (A)   Definition. PETIT LARCENY is the taking of personal property of value,
not to exceed $500, accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to deprive
another thereof, when the property is not taken from the person of another.
   (B)   Prohibited. Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits
petit larceny is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.41 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to buy, receive or bring into the town any
property which he or she knows has been stolen.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.42 TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGING, DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter, occupy, loiter in, take or drive away any automobile or other vehicle
belonging to another without the consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-3)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to vandalize, destroy, injure, deface,
besmear or molest, or in any manner diminish the value of property to the
owner, any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real
or personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such
property wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to
its use; or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its
owner or any other person entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-4)
   (C)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of
pipe, wire or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor
carrying gas, water, or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether
publicly or privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him or her to
consume or use the gas, water or electricity without it passing through the
meter or in any other way so as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful
for any person to damage, molest, tamper with or destroy any pipe, line, wire,
meter or any other part of any public utility, including telegraph and
telephone systems.
      (2)   It is hereby declared to be an offense against the town for any
person, firm or corporation to make any splice, tap or other connection into or
on any cable, wire, pipe or other service furnished to residents of the town by
any person, firm or corporation operating in the town not under a valid permit
issued by the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-5)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.43 PLACING SIGNS AND ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill, placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building,
fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other
property of another without the consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.44 THROWING OR SHOOTING OBJECTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where it is likely
to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot
any stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric
light or other property of another (whether public or private), except in the
case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another person, or of
property.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.45 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land within the
town without license or authority from the owner thereof, or who erects or
occupies thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without such license
or authority, and every person who places, erects or occupies within the bounds
of any street, alley or avenue of the town, any hut, hovel, shanty or other
structure whatever, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.46 ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure
is public or private) when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or
otherwise or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in the line of duty, or with the expressed or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.47 LITTERING; DISPOSAL OF BURNING SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Any person who throws, drops, deposits or otherwise places any lighted
cigarette, cigar, ashes or other flaming or glowing substances, or any
substance or thing which may cause a fire or any bottles, tin cans or other
trash, garbage or debris of any kind or character whatsoever in, upon or within
the limits of any state or federal highway, or county road, or upon other
public property shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as set out in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to litter, drop, throw or deposit any
object, trash, paper, rubbish, debris or other thing upon any public way or
public business or private property within the corporate limits of the town
without the express consent from the owner, manager or tenant of such public
way or business or private property. Any person who violates this division (B)
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be fined in an
amount not to exceed the maximum amount provided by law, including Court costs,
or penalized with community service by picking up all litter, trash, paper,
rubbish, debris and garbage at a location within the corporate limits of the
town as designated by the Municipal Judge for a period of time not to exceed
ten hours, and deposit the same in an appropriate disposal device, or both such
fine and community service.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.48 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false fire alarm, or in any
manner deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or any officer or
employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or
knowingly cause the Fire Department or its officers or employees to make a
useless run.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.49 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
§ 130.60 UNLAWFUL MANUFACTURE, LOCATION OR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to another any alcoholic beverages
of any kind, except as permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-1)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or
employee thereof, to keep or maintain or aid or abet in keeping or maintaining,
a place where alcoholic beverages are manufactured, sold, bartered, given away
or otherwise furnished in violation of law or the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-2)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.61 PRESENCE ON PREMISES PROVIDING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES UNLAWFULLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to loiter in any place where alcoholic
beverages of any kind are bartered, sold, given away or otherwise furnished
contrary to law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.62 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OR TRANSPORTATION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession or under his
or her control any alcoholic beverage of any kind, except as permitted by law,
or to transport or in any manner convey from place to place within the town any
such alcoholic beverage, except as permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.63 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any street, alley
or other place in the town in a state of intoxication. For the purposes of this
section, a STATE OF INTOXICATION means the condition in which a person is under
the influence of any alcoholic beverages, or of any narcotic, to such extent as
to deprive the person of his or her full physical or mental power.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.64 DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Definitions. All words, terms or references to blood alcohol
concentration tests, as used in this section, shall be defined in the exact and
same manner as set out in 47 O.S.
   (B)   Prohibitions. It is unlawful and punishable as provided in this
section for any person to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of a
motor vehicle within the town, whether upon public roads, highways, streets,
turnpikes, other public places or upon any private road, street, alley or lane
which provides access to one or more single- or multi-family dwellings, who:
      (1)   Has a blood or breath alcohol concentration, as defined in 47 O.S.
§ 756, of eight- hundredths or more at the time of a test of such person’s
blood or breath administered within two hours after the arrest of such person;
      (2)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
      (3)   Is under the influence of any intoxicating substance other than
alcohol which may render such person incapable of safely driving or operating a
motor vehicle; or
      (4)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any other
intoxicating substance which may render such person incapable of safely driving
or operating a motor vehicle.
   (C)   Authorized use not a defense. The fact that any person charged with a
violation of this section is or has been lawfully entitled to use alcohol or a
controlled dangerous substance or any other intoxicating substance shall not
constitute a defense against any charge of violating this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-6) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.65 MARIJUANA PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, MARIJUANA means all parts
of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the
resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin, but
shall not include the mature stalks of such plant; fiber produced from such
stalks; oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such mature stalks
(except resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake; or the sterilized seeds
of such plant which are incapable of germination.
   (B)   Prohibitions. It is unlawful for any person:
      (1)   Possess marijuana without an Oklahoma state-issued medical
marijuana license;
      (2)   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana;
      (3)   To use, have or possess marijuana upon or in any street, alley,
place of business or other public place within the town;
      (4)   To use marijuana in any place within the town, except as legally
prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the state;
      (5)   To engage in conduct that endangers or causes a public nuisance;
      (6)   To allow the use of medical marijuana for non-medial purposes;
      (7)   To loiter about a place where marijuana is sold or furnished
illegally; and/or
      (8)   To allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted
by state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-7) (Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
130.03 through
130.07,
130.48 and
130.49 of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-8)
   (C)   Upon conviction, any person violating §
130.04 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $200,
plus costs and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 6-4D-2)
   (D)   Upon conviction, any person violating §
130.24(C) of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than
$200, plus costs and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-7)
   (E)   The penalties for violation of §
130.26 of this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   Offense number one: $60;
      (2)   Offense number two: $80;
      (3)   Offense number three: $112; and
      (4)   Parent or guardian allowing minor to violate §
130.26 of this chapter: $112.
(Prior Code, § 6-4A-9)
   (F)   The penalties for violation of §
130.27 of this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   Offense number one: $36, plus Court costs;
      (2)   Offense number two: $56, plus Court costs;
      (3)   Offense number three: $88, plus Court costs; and
      (4)   Parent or guardian allowing minor to violate §
130.27 of this chapter: $88, plus Court costs.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1)
   (G)   (1)   Any person who shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the
town, per §
130.28 of this chapter, shall be punished for violation of a Class A offense
with fines up to $500, plus all Court costs.
      (2)   Violations of §
130.28 of this chapter may be prosecuted by the town criminally, civilly and/or
administratively as provided by this code of ordinances.
      (3)   The town may seek administrative fees and response costs associated
with enforcement of §
130.28 of this chapter through all remedies or procedures provided by statute,
ordinance or law.
      (4)   Section 130.28 of this chapter shall not limit the authority of
peace officers or private citizens to make arrests for any criminal offense
arising out of conduct regulated by §
130.28 of this chapter, nor shall it limit the town’s ability to initiate and
prosecute any criminal offense arising out of the same circumstances
necessitating the application of §
130.28 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2)
   (H)   Upon conviction for violation of §
130.42(B) of this chapter, any person may be fined not less than $100, nor more
than $200, plus costs and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-4)
   (I)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.47 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000,
including costs.
(Prior Code, § 6-4B-10)
   (J)   Any person, partnership, firm or corporation violating any provision
of §
130.64 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not to exceed the maximum amount provided
by law, excluding Court costs, or by imprisonment as provided by law, or both
such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6-4C-6)
   (K)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
130.65 of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2008-9, passed 11-10-2008; Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-14-2022)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
153.   FLOOD CONTROL
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Codes
   
150.01   Adoption of codes
   
150.02   Copies on file
   
150.03   Modifications to codes
   
150.04   Time for effect of codes
   
150.05   Conflicting provisions
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF CODES.
   There are hereby adopted by the town’s Board of Trustees, for the purpose of
describing regulations governing conditions as to the life of the property,
those certain codes known as the International Fire Code, International
Plumbing Code, International Building Code and National Electrical Code, save
and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended by
this subchapter. The town will adhere to the same editions of the above
mentioned codes that the state has adopted and uses. The same are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. From the date
on which said codes shall take effect, the provisions of said codes shall be
controlling within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1)
§ 150.02 COPIES ON FILE.
   One copy of the model construction codes adopted by the town are on file in
the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)
§ 150.03 MODIFICATIONS TO CODES.
   (A)   Wherever the word “city”, “town” or “municipality” is used in the
model construction codes adopted, it shall mean the “Town of Seiling,
Oklahoma”.
   (B)   Wherever the word “inspector”, “state inspector” or “administrative
official” is used in the model construction codes adopted, it shall mean the
official currently assuming the duties and responsibilities of the “Building
Inspector for the Town of Seiling, Oklahoma”.
   (C)   All official titles used in the model construction codes adopted shall
be interpreted as defined in this code. All limits, except fire limits,
referred to in any of the model construction codes adopted by this subchapter
are hereby established as the corporate limits of the town.
   (D)   Wherever the term “corporation counsel” is used in the model codes
adopted, it shall be held to mean the “Attorney for the Town of Seiling,
Oklahoma”.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)
§ 150.04 TIME FOR EFFECT OF CODES.
   From the effective date hereof, the provisions of said codes, as herein
modified, shall be controlling in those areas set forth herein within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4)
§ 150.05 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   Whenever any provision of any of the model construction codes adopted by
this chapter conflict with the town code, the latter provisions shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Maximum penalties for violation of provisions of the model
construction codes adopted in §
150.03 of this chapter shall be as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)
CHAPTER 151: DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
Section
Condemnation
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Procedure
   
151.03   Nuisance buildings
   
151.04   Non-liability of town
   
151.05   Exemptions from provisions
Boarding/Securing or Demolishing
   
151.20   Authority to board/secure or demolish
   
151.21   Cleaning and mowing of property
   
151.22   Exemptions from provisions
Boarding and Securing Procedure
   
151.35   General
   
151.36   Definitions
   
151.37   Notice requirements
   
151.38   Consent of property owner
   
151.39   Non-consent of property owner
   
151.40   Notice of lien
   
151.41   Entry powers
   
151.42   Costs; lien provisions
   
151.43   Administrative Officer; appeals
   
151.44   Subsequent violations
   
151.45   Authority without declaration
Cross-reference:
   Building Codes, see §§
150.01 through
150.05
   Construction and alteration of public ways, see §
152.01
   Zoning, see
Chapter 154
CONDEMNATION
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A structure which, through neglect or injury, lacks necessary
repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent
that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the general
public;
      (2)   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of
necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health,
safety and welfare of the general public;
      (3)   A structure which is determined by the town’s Board of Trustees or
administrative officer of the town’s Board of Trustees to be an “unsecured
building”, as defined in §
151.36 of this chapter, more than three times within any 12-month period;
      (4)   A structure which has been boarded and secured, as defined in §
151.36 of this chapter, for more than 18 consecutive months; or
      (5)   A structure declared by the town’s Board of Trustees to constitute
a public nuisance.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-1)
§ 151.02 PROCEDURE.
   The town’s Board of Trustees may cause dilapidated buildings within the town
limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with the following procedures.
   (A)   Notice requirements. At least ten days’ notice that a building is to
be torn down or removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the
town’s Board of Trustees holds a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted
on the property to be affected. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent
by mail to the property owner at the address shown by the current year’s tax
rolls in the office of the County Treasurer. Written notice shall also be
mailed to any mortgage holder as shown by the records in the office of the
County Clerk to the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing
of notice to any property owner or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a
receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the
date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if neither the
property owner, nor mortgage holder, can be located, notice may be given by
posting a copy of the notice on the property, or by publication, as defined in
11 O.S. § 1-102. The notice may be published once not less than ten days prior
to any hearing or action by the town pursuant to the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   Hearing. A hearing shall be held by the town’s Board of Trustees to
determine if the property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare of the general public and the community, or if the
property creates a fire hazard which is dangerous to other property.
   (C)   Removal by town; notice of lien.
      (1)   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property
constitutes a detriment or a hazard and that the property would be benefitted
by the removal of such conditions, the town’s Board of Trustees may cause the
dilapidated building to be torn down and removed.
      (2)   The town’s Board of Trustees shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and completion of the work. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall
immediately file a notice of dilapidation and lien with the County Clerk
describing the property, the findings of the town at the hearing and stating
that the town claims a lien on the property for the destruction and removal
costs and that such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of filing of the notice. The agents of the town are
granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the necessary
duties as a governmental function of the town if the work is not performed by
the property owner within dates fixed by the town’s Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Any action to challenge the order of the town’s Board of Trustees
shall be filed within 30 business days from the date of the order.
   (D)   Costs; lien provisions.
      (1)   (a)   The town’s Board of Trustees shall determine the actual cost
of the dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses
that may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing.
         (b)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a statement of the
actual cost attributable to the dismantling and removal of the buildings and a
demand for payment of such costs, by mail, to the property owner.
         (c)   In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder at the address provided in division (A) above. At the time of
mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the
town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee.
         (d)   If the town dismantles or removes any dilapidated buildings, the
cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor,
maintenance and equipment required for the dismantling and removal of the
dilapidated buildings. If dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings
is done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the
lowest and best bidder.
      (2)   (a)   When payment is made to the town for costs incurred, the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall file a release of lien, but if payment
attributable to the actual cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings
is not made within six months from the date of the mailing of the statement to
the owner of such property, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a
certified statement of the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer. Once
certified to the County Treasurer, payment may only be made to the County
Treasurer, except as otherwise provided for in this section. The costs shall be
levied on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as are other taxes
authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall
be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of the
notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with the County Clerk.
         (b)   In addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien
against the property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the
County Clerk. The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and
all other taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all
other titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the
cost is fully paid. At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall
collect a fee of $5 for each parcel of property. The fee shall be deposited to
the credit of the General Fund of the county.
         (c)   If the County Treasurer and the town agree that the County
Treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the town may pursue a civil
remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon including an
action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface
interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or
judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such
payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
   (E)   Administrative officer; appeals.
      (1)   The town may designate, by ordinance, an administrative officer or
administrative body to carry out the duties of the town’s Board of Trustees
specified in this section.
      (2)   The property owner shall have the right of appeal to the town’s
Board of Trustees from any order of the administrative officer or
administrative body.
      (3)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with
the town’s Clerk- Treasurer within ten days after the administrative order is
rendered.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-2)
§ 151.03 NUISANCE BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the town from abating a dilapidated
building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its police power to protect the
health, safety or welfare of the general public.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-3)
§ 151.04 NON-LIABILITY OF TOWN.
   The officers, employees or agents of the town shall not be liable for any
damages or loss of property due to the removal of dilapidated buildings
performed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter or as otherwise prescribed
by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-4)
§ 151.05 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any property zoned and
used for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2-5)
BOARDING/SECURING OR DEMOLISHING
§ 151.20 AUTHORITY TO BOARD/SECURE OR DEMOLISH.
   After a building has been declared dilapidated as provided in §§
151.01 through
151.05 of this chapter, and before the commencement of the tearing and removal
of a dilapidated building, the town’s Board of Trustees may authorize that such
a building be boarded and secured. However, if the dilapidated building is
vacant and unfit for human occupancy, the town’s Board of Trustees may
authorize the structure to be demolished pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-1)
§ 151.21 CLEANING AND MOWING OF PROPERTY.
   The town’s Board of Trustees may cause the premises on which an unsecured
building is located to be cleaned of trash and weeds in accordance with the
provisions of §§
90.20 through
90.25 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-2)
§ 151.22 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter and §§
151.35 through
151.45 of this chapter shall not apply to any property zoned and used for
agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-4)
BOARDING AND SECURING PROCEDURE
§ 151.35 GENERAL.
   The town’s Board of Trustees may cause an unsecured building to be boarded
and secured in accordance with the following procedures.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
§ 151.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOARDING AND SECURING OR BOARDED AND SECURED. The closing, boarding or
locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
structure.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY. A structure that, due to lack of necessary
repairs, is considered uninhabitable and is a hazard to the health, safety and
welfare of the general public.
   UNSECURED BUILDING. Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or
equitable owner thereof, or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner, and into
which there are one or more unsecured openings such as broken windows, unlocked
windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes in the
roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar
hatchways or other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an
unauthorized entry into the structure.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
§ 151.37 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before the town’s Board of Trustees orders such action, at least ten
days’ notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and secured shall be
given by mail to any property owners and mortgage holders as provided in §§
151.01 through
151.05 of this chapter. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner
or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. A copy of the notice shall also be posted on the
property to be affected. However, if neither the property owner, nor mortgage
holder, can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on
the property or by publication, as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102. Such notice
shall be published one time, not less than ten days prior to any hearing or
action by the town pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   If the town’s Board of Trustees anticipates summary abatement of a
nuisance in accordance with the provisions of §
151.44 of this chapter, the notice shall state: that any subsequent need for
boarding and securing the building within a six-month period after the initial
boarding and securing of the building pursuant to such notice may be summarily
boarded and secured by the town’s Board of Trustees; that the costs of such
boarding and securing shall be assessed against the owner; and that a lien may
be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further prior
notice to the property owner or mortgage holder.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
§ 151.38 CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   The owner of the property may give written consent to the town authorizing
the boarding and securing of such unsecured building and to the payment of any
costs incurred thereby. By giving written consent, the owner waives any right
the owner has to a hearing by the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
§ 151.39 NON-CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   If the property owner does not give written consent to such actions, a
hearing may be held by the town’s Board of Trustees to determine whether the
boarding and securing of such unsecured building would promote and benefit the
public health, safety or welfare. Such hearing may be held in conjunction with
a hearing on the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass on the
premises of such unsecured building held pursuant to the provisions of §
90.21(C) of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In making such determination, the town’s Board of Trustees shall apply
the following standard: the town’s Board of Trustees may order the boarding and
securing of the unsecured building when the boarding and securing thereof would
make such building less available for transient occupation, decrease a fire
hazard created by such building or decrease the hazard that such building would
constitute an attractive nuisance to children. Upon making the required
determination, the town’s Board of Trustees may order the boarding and securing
of the unsecured building.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
§ 151.40 NOTICE OF LIEN.
   After the town’s Board of Trustees orders the boarding and securing of such
unsecured building, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately file a notice
of unsecured building and lien with the County Clerk describing the property,
stating the findings of the town at the hearing at which such building was
determined to be unsecured, and stating that the town claims a lien on the
property for the costs of boarding and securing such building and that such
costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date
of filing the notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
§ 151.41 ENTRY POWERS.
   Pursuant to the order of the town’s Board of Trustees, the agents of the
town are granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the
boarding and securing of such building and for the performance of all necessary
duties as a governmental function of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
§ 151.42 COSTS; LIEN PROVISIONS.
   (A)   After an unsecured building has been boarded and secured, the town’s
Board of Trustees shall determine the actual costs of such actions and any
other expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith including the
cost of the notice and mailing. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a
statement of the actual costs attributable to the boarding and securing of the
unsecured building and a demand for payment of such costs, by mail to any
property owners and mortgage holders as provided in §§
151.01 through
151.05 of this chapter. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs to any
property owner or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing
from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and
the name and address of the mailee. If the town boards and secures any
unsecured building, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual
cost of the labor, materials and equipment required for the performance of such
actions. If such actions are done on a private contract basis, the contract
shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
   (B)   When payment is made to the town for costs incurred, the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the
actual costs of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not made
within 30 days from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of
such property, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a certified statement
of the amount of the costs to the County Treasurer. Once certified to the
County Treasurer, payment may only be made to the County Treasurer, except as
otherwise provided for in this section. At the time of collection, the County
Treasurer shall collect a fee of $5 for each parcel of property, and such fee
shall be deposited to the General Fund of the county. The costs shall be levied
on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as are other taxes
authorized by law. Until fully paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall
be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the
notice of unsecured building and lien is filed with the County Clerk. In
addition, the costs and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the County Clerk.
The lien shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes
and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all other titles and
liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the costs and
interest are fully paid.
   (C)   If the County Treasurer and the town agree that the County Treasurer
is unable to collect the assessment, the town may pursue a civil remedy for
collection of the amount owing and interest thereon by an action in personam
and against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien
against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface owner,
shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this
section. Upon receiving payment, the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward to
the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the
lien.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
§ 151.43 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER; APPEALS.
   The town may designate by ordinance an administrative officer or
administrative body to carry out the duties of the town’s Board of Trustees
specified in this section. The property owner or mortgage holder shall have a
right to appeal to the town’s Board of Trustees from any order of the
administrative officer or administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing written notice of appeal with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer within ten days
after the administrative order is rendered.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
§ 151.44 SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If the town’s Board of Trustees causes a structure within the town
limits to be boarded and secured, any subsequent need for boarding and securing
within a six-month period constitutes a public nuisance and may be summarily
boarded and secured without further prior notice to the property owner or
mortgage holder.
   (B)   At the time of each such summary boarding and securing, the town shall
notify the property owner and mortgage holder of the boarding and securing and
the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may request
an appeal with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer within ten days after the mailing of
the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided in §
151.37 of this chapter. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of
such boarding and securing shall be determined and collected as provided in §
151.42 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
§ 151.45 AUTHORITY WITHOUT DECLARATION.
   The town’s Board of Trustees may determine that a building is unsecured and
order that such building be boarded and secured in the manner provided in this
subchapter even though such building has not been declared by the town’s Board
of Trustees to be dilapidated.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3-3)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Construction and alteration; permit requirements
Billboards
   
152.15   Purpose
   
152.16   Definition
   
152.17   Permit requirements
   
152.18   General requirements
   
152.19   Construction standards
   
152.20   First Amendment protection
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 CONSTRUCTION AND ALTERATION; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. For the purpose of securing a uniform system in the
town, with respect to location, grade, construction or alteration of streets,
alleys, sidewalks, driveways and curbings, except for construction, alteration
or improvements and upon private property, hereinafter constructed, paved or
otherwise improved, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
construct, build, pave, blacktop or otherwise improve or alter any street,
sidewalk, driveway, alley or curbing within the town limits without first
filing an application with the town setting forth the location, specific change
description and grade of the proposed improvements and obtaining a permit from
the town to make said improvements.
   (B)   Application for permit.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the town, upon receiving an application, to
immediately submit the same to the designated town representative for approval
or corrections.
      (2)   Upon receiving an application from the town, it shall be the duty
of the designated town representative to immediately check said application as
to the proper location and grade, making sure same does not conflict with any
other easement, buried pipeline or other improvement.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall, upon receiving
approval or corrections from the designated town representative, issue a permit
to the applicant authorizing said improvements upon the street, alley,
sidewalk, driveway or curbing, as approved and fixed by the designated town
representative.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) Penalty, see §
152.99
BILLBOARDS
§ 152.15 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter has been enacted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To maintain and enhance the visual environment and preserve the scenic
beauty of the community;
   (B)   To maintain pedestrian and traffic safety;
   (C)   To minimize any adverse effect on public and private property; and
   (D)   To provide an orderly process for the permitting and upkeep of
billboard structures.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 152.16 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, a BILLBOARD shall be defined to be an off-
premises object, device, display, sign or structure, or part thereof, displayed
outdoors or visible from a public way, which is used to advertise, identify,
display, direct or attract attention to an object, person, institution,
organization, business, product, service, event or location, or to express a
point of view, by any means, including words, letters, figures, design,
symbols, advertising, flags, fixtures, colors, illuminations or projected
images. Each substantially different face of a billboard structure shall
constitute a separate billboard (e.g., back and front are separate faces). Off-
premises signage identifies a subject matter (whether that be goods, services
and the like) which are not sold on the premises where the billboard is
located. BILLBOARDS do not include on premises commercial or political signage,
nor small commercial or non-commercial signs temporarily placed in residential
lawns by residents, owners, contractors or realtors, or by or on behalf of
political candidates or issues, nor traffic or informational signs placed by
the town or state government.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 152.17 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. Any new billboard shall require a land use permit
prior to initial construction, relocation or major reconstruction.
   (B)   Application for permit. All applications for a land use permit shall
be submitted to the Town Administrator or his or her designee for approval by
the Town Board. All applications shall contain the following minimum
information:
      (1)   Application date;
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of the billboard owner and, if
different, the owner of the land on which the billboard will be erected;
      (3)   Address of the property where the billboard or billboard structure
will be erected;
      (4)   Signature(s) of the billboard owner and, if different, the owner of
the land on which the billboard will be displayed;
      (5)   Location of the billboard on the property in relation to public
rights of way, lot lines, buildings, sidewalks, streets, zoning districts,
other existing billboards and intersections;
      (6)   General description of structural design and construction materials
of the billboard;
      (7)   Drawings of the proposed billboard which shall contain
specifications indicating height, perimeter and area dimensions, means of
support, methods of illumination if any and any other significant aspect of the
proposed billboard;
      (8)   A boundary and sign survey showing the property and the proposed
sign;
      (9)   Certification(s) from licensed professional engineers that the soil
surface is capable of sustaining the proposed load and that the electrical and
structural strength of the proposed/actual sign is satisfactory; and
      (10)   Any other information requested by the Administrator in order to
carry out the purpose and intent of this subchapter.
   (C)   Permit fee. Any successful applicant under this section shall pay a
fee of $250 prior to construction of the permitted billboard. The purpose of
the fee is to provide revenue for enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 9-10-2007) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All billboards permitted or erected on or after the effective date hereof
shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   Height. No billboard (including structural support) shall exceed 30
feet in height from the ground level to the peak of the billboard.
   (B)   Display area. No billboard face shall exceed 175 square feet. This
measurement shall be determined by the smallest rectangle or square inclusive
of all background letters and images. This measurement shall not include the
trim or structural support.
   (C)   Illumination and animation. Billboards may be illuminated but may not
interfere with the use and enjoyment of the adjacent landowners. No billboards
shall be animated, moving, flashing or glaring.
   (D)   Location.
      (1)   No billboard shall be erected closer than 1,000 feet to an existing
billboard on either side of the street or highway.
      (2)   No billboard shall be erected closer than 20 feet to the street or
highway right-of-way line.
      (3)   No billboard shall be erected within 300 feet from the intersection
of any two or more state or federal highways.
      (4)   No billboard shall be erected within 300 feet of a church or
worship center.
      (5)   No billboard shall be erected within 300 feet of an existing
residence regardless of zoning.
      (6)   No billboard shall be erected in any area which is not zoned
commercial or industrial.
   (E)   Dangerous billboards. No billboard shall pose any immediate peril to
persons or property.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-4) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 9-10-2007; Ord. 2018-4, passed 10-
9-2018) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.19 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All billboards shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance
with the following standards.
   (A)   All billboards shall be constructed of permanent materials and shall
be permanently attached to the ground.
   (B)   All billboards shall be maintained in good structural condition.
   (C)   The face of each billboard shall be refreshed, repainted or
refurbished at least every three years.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-5) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 9-10-2007) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.20 FIRST AMENDMENT PROTECTION.
   Any billboard allowed by this subchapter may contain, in lieu of any
commercial copy, a non- commercial message, including a political message.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-6) (Ord. 2007-3, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §
152.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
   (C)   (1)   The person signing the application described in §§
152.15 through
152.20 of this chapter (or his or her assignee if the billboard is sold) shall
be personally responsible to satisfy the provisions of §§
152.15 through
152.20 of this chapter. Any violations of the provisions of §§
152.15 through
152.20 of this chapter shall constitute a civil violation by the person signing
the application (or his or her assignee if the billboard is sold). Each day of
the violation constitutes a separate offense subject to a $100 per day fine,
plus court costs.
      (2)   The town may remove or order the removal of any billboard
hereinafter erected which is not in compliance with §§
152.15 through
152.20 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-7)
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 9-10-2007)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
   
153.01   Authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Methods of accomplishing purpose
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Application; interpretation; compliance
   
153.07   Floodplain Administrator
   
153.08   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
153.09   Development permit
   
153.10   Flood hazard reduction
   
153.11   Variances
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
§ 153.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the town’s Board of Trustees does ordain as provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-1)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-2)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-3)
§ 153.04 METHODS OF ACCOMPLISHING PURPOSE.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
increase flood hazards to other lands.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-4)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the local administrator’s interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on the town’s flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one foot to three feet. This
condition occurs where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path
of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate and where velocity flow may be
evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the town
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not be limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or
contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent
or sale for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which
the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads and the
construction of streets) is completed before the effective date hereof.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete
pads or the construction of streets).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
(1)   The overflow of inland waters; and
(2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). The official map of the town, issued by
the federal insurance administration, where the areas within the boundaries of
special flood hazards have been designated as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map of the town on which the
federal insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the town.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration. The report contains flood profiles, the water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood hazard boundary-floodway map.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used for storage purposes only is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term does
not include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   NEW MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent or sale for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which the mobile
home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities,
either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads and the construction
of streets) is completed on or after the effective date hereof.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation.
      (1)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not as a part of the main structure.
      (2)   For a structure (other than a mobile home) without a basement or
poured footings, the START OF CONSTRUCTION includes the first permanent framing
or assembly of the structure or any part thereof on its piling or foundation.
For mobile homes not within a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision,
START OF CONSTRUCTION means affixing of the mobile home to it permanent site.
      (3)   For mobile homes within mobile home parks or mobile home
subdivisions, START OF CONSTRUCTION is the date on which the construction of
facilities for servicing the site on which the mobile home is to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the construction of streets, either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads and installation of utilities) is
completed.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground, as
well as a mobile home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the state’s Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-5)
§ 153.06 APPLICATION; INTERPRETATION; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Application of provisions. This chapter shall apply to all areas of
special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (C)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and other provisions conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (D)   Compliance required. No structure or land shall hereafter be located,
altered or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-6)
§ 153.07 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by §
153.09 of this chapter;
      (3)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
      (4)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Water Resources Board
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to the federal insurance administration;
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished; and
      (7)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.08 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data available from a federal,
state or other source in order to administer the provisions of §
153.10 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-7)
§ 153.08 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration on its flood hazard boundary map (FHBM), Community No.
H40043423001, dated 5-24-1974, and on revisions thereto, are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-8)
§ 153.09 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. A development permit shall be required to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for a development permit shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and
may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing
the location, dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations,
existing and proposed structures and the location of the foregoing in relation
to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is
required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure shall be flood- proofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the non-residential flood-proofed structure shall meet the flood-proofing
criteria of §
153.10(B)(2) of this chapter; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (C)   Approval or denial of permit. Approval or denial of a development
permit by the Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions
of this chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-9)
§ 153.10 FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
provisions are required.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (4)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (5)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (6)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in division (C)(3) below or
§§
153.07(B)(7) or 153.08 of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (B)(1), as
proposed in §
153.09(B)(1) of this chapter, is satisfied.
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be flood-proofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall submit a certification to the Floodplain Administrator that
the standards of this division (B)(2), as proposed in §
153.09(B)(3) of this chapter, are satisfied.
      (3)   Mobile homes.
         (a)   No mobile home shall be placed in a floodway, except in an
existing mobile home park or existing mobile home subdivision.
         (b)   All mobile homes shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse
or lateral movement. Specific requirements shall be:
            1.   Over the top ties on each of the four corners of the mobile
home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations, and mobile
homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side;
            2.   Frame ties at each corner of the home with five additional
ties per side at intermediate points, and mobile homes less than 50 feet long
requiring four additional ties per side;
            3.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds; and
            4.   Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
   (C)   Standards for subdivisions.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with §§
153.02,
153.03 and
153.04 of this chapter.
      (2)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions shall meet
development permit requirements of this section and §
153.09 of this chapter.
      (3)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which is greater than the lesser of 50
lots or five acres, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
153.07(B)(7) or 153.08 of this chapter.
      (4)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (5)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-10)
§ 153.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment, as established in §
154.46 of this code of ordinances, shall hear and render judgment on requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and render judgment on an appeal
only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Board of
Adjustment may appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Insurance
Administration upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the state’s Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot one-half acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level; provided, the relevant factors in §
153.08 of this chapter have been fully considered.
      (2)   As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Planning and Zoning Commission may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of this chapter (§
153.03 of this chapter).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flooding discharge would result.
   (I)   Prerequisites for granting variances are as follows.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation no more than two feet below the base flood elevation, and that the
cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting
from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-11)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur, and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of town’s Board of Trustees or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-12)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Rules of word construction
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Non-conforming buildings, structures and uses
   
154.04   Fencing
District Establishment; Map
   
154.15   Districts established
   
154.16   District Map
   
154.17   Zoning of annexed land
   
154.18   Zoning of vacated streets and alleys
   
154.19   General regulations applicable to all districts
Zoning Districts
   
154.30   A, Single-Family Dwelling District
   
154.31   B, Residential District
   
154.32   C, Business-Industrial District
   
154.33   D, Agricultural District
   
154.34   Public/Institutional District
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.45   Enforcement Official
   
154.46   Board of Adjustment
   
154.47   Land use permit
   
154.48   Variances
   
154.49   Appeals
   
154.50   Notice of hearings
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION.
   When used in this chapter, words used in the present tense shall include the
future, and the singular number shall include the plural; the word “building”
shall include the word “structure”; the word “lot” shall include the word
“plot”; and the word “shall” is mandatory and not directory.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BUILDING. Any structure. When separated by dividing walls without openings,
each portion of such structure so separated shall be deemed a separate
structure.
   DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed for use for
residential purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed for occupancy by three or more
families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for occupancy by two families.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling and living as a single
housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a “lodging house” or
“hotel”, as defined herein.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A living unit erected above a garage for not more than one
family.
   HOTEL. A building used as an abiding place for more than 20 persons who are,
for compensation, lodged with or without meals.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more, but not exceeding 20, persons, in contradistinction to hotels
open to transients.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by one main
building, together with its accessory buildings, and uses customarily
incidental thereto, including the open spaces required by this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. Any manufactured unit used for dwelling or to house human
beings which is so constructed that it has wheels and axles attached and can be
moved from place to place, including any such manufactured unit which has been
placed upon a permanent foundation with the wheels covered or removed.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area used to hire, to park or to place a “mobile
home”, as defined herein.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. The use of any building or premises contrary to the use
regulations of this chapter for the district in which the premises is located.
   STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public or private street
purposes or subject to public easements therefor.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
Cross-reference:
   Rules of interpretation, see §
10.08
§ 154.03 NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Continuance of use. The lawful non-conforming use of buildings,
structures or premises as of the date of annexation of same into the corporate
limits of the town or as of the time of the effective date hereof may be
continued, although such use does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-1)
   (B)   Change of use. A lawful non-conforming use of buildings, structures or
premises may be changed to another lawful non-conforming use of a more
restricted classification or to a conforming use; however, such use shall not
thereafter be changed to a less restricted use, and this chapter shall apply,
whenever the use of said buildings, structures or premises becomes non-
conforming through a change in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-2)
§ 154.04 FENCING.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish standards for the placement of fences.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-1)
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, walls, latticework and screens
shall be considered to be FENCES (and shall be used interchangeably) and shall
be built and maintained in compliance with the provisions herein. Landscaping,
shrubs, plants and the like are not considered FENCES and do not need to comply
with the provisions contained in this section. Fence posts, gates and other
fencing materials installed on a property shall also be in compliance with the
provisions herein, including, but not limited to, height, setback and material.
      (2)   No fence shall be constructed or installed in any zoning district
without conforming to these regulations.
      (3)   Fences shall be built entirely upon the property they are intended
to serve.
      (4)   Fences built across or on easements must allow access to the
entitled parties of the easements for maintenance purposes. Should maintenance
by entitled parties of said easements result in damage or dislocation of
fences, the owner of the property on which said fence is located, at his or her
expense, shall be responsible for any repairs or reconstruction of said fences.
      (5)   The property owner shall be responsible for keeping fences
structurally sound so as to not endanger life, property or become a nuisance
and for keeping fences free from graffiti.
      (6)   Fencing over three feet in height should not be allowed, placed,
erected, or constructed in any “vision triangle”. VISION TRIANGLE is defined as
measuring from the intersection of the edges of two adjacent roadways 40 feet
along each roadway and connecting the two points with a straight line. The edge
of the roadway shall be defined as the curb or where the curb would be if no
curb is installed. Driveways are not considered roadways for this definition.
      (7)   While the town generally prohibits the placement of fencing in
public right-of-way areas along residential zones, fencing that is placed in a
public right-of-way in a residentially zoned area, whether intentionally or
accidentally, is subject to the following conditions whether the fencing is
placed in existing or future public right-of-way areas when in residential
zones.
         (a)   Fencing shall be removed by and at the property owner’s expense
within five days of a request by the town to remove said fencing.
         (b)   Fencing can be removed by the town after the five-day deadline
has expired, without the property owner’s permission and without compensation
to the property owner, and with or without notification, as necessary for
utility or right-of-way maintenance/improvements for any existing or future
public right-of-way area.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-2)
   (C)   Prohibited fencing.
      (1)   (a)   Electric, concertina, barbed or razor wire fences in all
zoning districts shall be prohibited excepting: commercial and industrial
zoning districts may utilize electric, concertina, barbed or razor wire
fencing, but only as the top section of the fence.
         (b)   The beginning of said top section must be at least six feet
above grade. This exclusion shall not apply along the front property line and
the side property lines within 20 feet of the front property line for all
properties fronting a minor or major arterial roadway.
      (2)   The following materials shall not be utilized for fencing:
         (a)   Boxes;
         (b)   Broken or decaying wood;
         (c)   Broken masonry blocks;
         (d)   Sheets of plywood;
         (e)   Hubcaps;
         (f)   Pallets; and
         (g)   Other unsightly materials as determined by the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
      (3)   (a)   Decorative corrugated metal may be used as fencing material
on a case-by-case basis as determined by the Planning and Zoning Authority. To
be considered for approval, it must meet the following standards.
         (b)   If located within any residential zone or abutting a residential
zoned property, all exposed edges along the top and outer sides of the
decorative corrugated metal fence must be dressed so that no sharp edges are
exposed.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-3)
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 9-20-2021)
DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT; MAP
§ 154.15 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order to classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified uses and to
regulate and limit the intensity of the uses of land areas, the town is hereby
divided into seven classes of districts. The use and area regulations are
uniform in each district, and said districts shall be known as:
Ag1 General Agricultural
Ag2 Residential Agricultural
C1  Neighborhood Commercial
C2  General Commercial
P   Public/Institutional
PF  Public/Institutional
R1  Single-Family Dwelling
R2  Residential District
 
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1) (Ord. 2016-4, passed 7-26-2016; Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-
16-2020; Ord. 2023-4, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 154.16 DISTRICT MAP.
   The boundaries of the districts are indicated upon the district map of the
town, which map is made a part of this chapter. The district map of the town
and all the notations, references and other matters shown thereon shall be as
much a part of this chapter as if the notations, references and other matters
set forth by the map were all fully described herein. The district map is on
file in the office of the town’s Clerk-Treasurer at the Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2)
§ 154.17 ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND.
   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the town shall automatically
be classed as lying and being in the A Single-Family Dwelling District until
such classification shall have been changed by an amendment to this chapter, as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3)
§ 154.18 ZONING OF VACATED STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the particular district applying to
property fronting on any such street or alley shall automatically be extended
to the centerline of any such street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4)
§ 154.19 GENERAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used which does not
comply with all of the district regulations established by this chapter for the
district in which the building or land is located.
   (B)   The minimum yards and other open spaces, including the intensity of
use provisions contained in this chapter for each and every building existing
at the effective date hereof or for any building hereafter erected or
structurally altered, shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard or
open space requirements or intensity of use purposes for any other building.
   (C)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a “lot”, as defined in §
154.02 of this chapter, and in no case shall there be more than one main
building on one lot.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5) Penalty, see §
154.99
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.30 A, SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   A building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
         (a)   Churches;
         (b)   Garage apartments; provided that, the building shall be set back
ten feet from all lot lines;
         (c)   Gardening, but not the raising of livestock;
         (d)   Golf courses, except miniature golf courses, putting greens,
driving ranges or other forms of amusement operated as a business;
         (e)   Home occupations and professional offices of one who lives in
the main building; (See § 154.30(D) through (G) of this chapter for details.)
         (f)   Hospitals and clinics, except animal hospitals and clinics;
         (g)   Schools, elementary and high;
         (h)   Single-family dwelling; and
         (i)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work,
which buildings shall be removed upon the completion of the construction work.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1)
      (2)   If any property within an area zoned as Single-Family Dwelling
District is being used for another purpose at the time of the passage of this
division (A), the use may continue. When said property ceases from the
restricted use, only the uses stated in this division (A) will be permitted.
Any non- conforming use will terminate if the property is sold.
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, unless 25% or more of the frontage on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets is improved with buildings that have observed an average
front yard line with a variation in depth of not more than six feet, in which
case, no building shall project beyond the average front yard so established,
but this regulation shall not be interpreted to require a front yard of more
than 50 feet .
         (b)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall
be provided on both streets.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) below, there shall be a
side yard on each side of a building having a width of not less than five feet
from the eaves of the building to property line.
         (b)   On corner lots, there shall be a side yard on the side street of
not less than 50% of the front yard required on the lot, and no accessory
building shall project beyond this side yard line; except that, on corner lots
and corner tracts of land of 50 feet in width, it shall be permissible to build
within five feet of the property line on said yard line.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2)
   (C)   Lot area; intensity of use. There shall be a lot area of not less than
5,000 square feet; except that, if a lot of record recorded prior to the
effective date hereof has less area than herein required, that lot may be used
for any of the uses permitted by this chapter; provided that, all area
regulations are observed.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3)
   (D)   Definition and stipulations of “home occupations”.
      (1)   A HOME OCCUPATION is a commercial use that is accessory to a
residential use. A home occupation must comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   A home occupation must be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit or one accessory garage and require no more than 25% of the gross floor
area of the residence and/or garage.
      (3)   Participation in a home occupation is limited to occupants of the
dwelling unit; except that, one person who is not an occupant may participate
in a medical, professional, administrative or business office if off-street
parking is provided for that person.
      (4)   The residential character of the lot and dwelling must be
maintained.
      (5)   The home occupation must enhance the public health, safety and
general welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
      (6)   The home occupation must not diminish the value and quality of the
surrounding neighborhood.
      (7)   The occupation must not impose a load on any utility greater than
normally required for domestic use.
      (8)   There shall be no display windows; nor shall any materials or
supplies be stored in the open.
      (9)   Equipment or materials associated with the home occupation must not
be visible from locations off the premises.
      (10)   A home occupation may not produce noise, vibration, smoke, dust,
odor, heat, glare, fumes, electrical interference or waste run-off outside the
dwelling unit or garage.
      (11)   No business involving the pickup or delivery of goods or products
will be conducted between the hours of 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
      (12)   Parking a commercial vehicle of two-ton capacity or greater on the
premises or on a street adjacent to residentially zoned property is prohibited.
      (13)   Any current or future developers or existing homeowners may bar
home occupations with a protective covenant for any new or existing residential
platted addition.
      (14)   Advertising a home occupation by a sign on the premises is
prohibited, except as provided under division (E) below.
      (15)   The following are prohibited as home occupations:
         (a)   Adult-oriented businesses;
         (b)   Animal hospitals, animal breeding;
         (c)   Automotive repair services;
         (d)   Businesses involving the repair of any type of internal
combustion engine, including equipment repair services;
         (e)   Clinics, hospitals;
         (f)   Cocktail lounges;
         (g)   Contractor’s yards;
         (h)   Dance studios;
         (i)   Drop-off recycling collection facilities;
         (j)   Equipment sales;
         (k)   Hospital services;
         (l)   Massage parlors other than those employing massage therapists
licensed by the state;
         (m)   Recycling centers;
         (n)   Rental outlets;
         (o)   Restaurants;
         (p)   Scrap and salvage services; and
         (q)   Second hand or used items.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-4)
   (E)   Home occupation signs. A home occupation that is allowed under
division (D) above may display one on-premises sign bearing the name of the
home occupation if the following requirement is met: the sign must be a non-
illuminated sign, not more than 144 square inches in area, with a maximum
height of eight feet. A home occupation sign permitted under this section must
be removed if the home occupation ceases to be used or fails to comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-5)
   (F)   Permit for home occupation. Town permit must be obtained before
establishing any home occupation by submitting a home occupation application
and permit fee to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. The permit will be reviewed by
the Planning and Zoning Commission with recommendations made to the Town Board
for final determination. The permit fee will be set by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-6)
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 11-13-2017; Ord. 2021-2, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 154.31 B, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Regulations established. The regulations set forth in this section or
set forth elsewhere in this chapter when referred to in this chapter are the B
Residential District regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1)
   (B)   Permitted uses. A building or premises shall be used for the following
residential purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the A Single-Family Dwelling District;
      (2)   Boarding or lodging houses and any commercial use, except the
following: any type or kind of manufacturing plant or factory wherein either
materials or products are manufactured, either in liquid or solid form, other
than the manufacture or treatment of products clearly incidental to the conduct
of a retail business on the premises;
      (3)   Blacksmith shop;
      (4)   Coal, coke or wood yard;
      (5)   Feedlot or livery stable;
      (6)   Machine shop;
      (7)   Multiple dwellings; and
      (8)   Two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2)
   (C)   Yards. The yard area regulations for residences are the same as those
in the A Single-Family Dwelling District. No front yard shall be required for
any commercial establishment.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3)
   (D)   Lot area; intensity of use.
      (1)   A lot on which there is erected a single-family dwelling shall
contain not less than 4,000 square feet. A single-family dwelling may be
erected on any lot of record recorded prior to effective date hereof
irrespective of the area of said lot of record.
      (2)   A lot on which there is erected a two-family dwelling, a multiple
dwelling or a garage apartment shall contain an area of not less than 2,000
square feet per family.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-4)
§ 154.32 C, BUSINESS-INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Regulations established. The regulations set forth in this section or
set forth elsewhere in this chapter, when referred to in this chapter, are the
C Business-Industrial District regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-1)
   (B)   Specific use permit.
      (1)   Definition. The phrases SPECIFIC USE PERMIT or PERMIT, as used
herein, shall mean a permit granted by the Board of Trustees for the town, (the
“Town Board”), after notice, public hearing, preliminary review and
recommendation by the town’s Planning and Zoning Commission for a specific use
within a Commercial-Industrial (C) Zoning District. The Town Board shall
process any application or amendment for a specific use permit using the
procedure as set forth in division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   List of specific uses. The types of uses for which a specific use
permit may be required shall be those types of uses (the “specific uses”)
which, because of the size of the land required for the specific use or the
specialized nature of the use, may more intensely dominate the area in which
the use is located and its effects on the general public are broader than other
uses permitted in a Commercial- Industrial (C) Zoning District. The following
uses shall receive the express approval of the Town Board before they shall be
permitted to be located, expanded or moved anywhere within a Commercial-
Industrial (C) Zoning District:
         (a)   Acid manufacture or wholesale storage;
         (b)   Cell phone or other communication towers (excluding amateur
radio tower);
         (c)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster manufacture;
         (d)   Commercial oil or gas refining or compression;
         (e)   Commercial or bulk storage of gasoline, propane, butane or other
petroleum products;
         (f)   Explosives manufacture or wholesale storage;
         (g)   Grain elevator and storage;
         (h)   Impound lots;
         (i)   Medical marijuana commercial growing facilities;
         (j)   Medical marijuana dispensary;
         (k)   Medical marijuana processing facility;
         (l)   Medical marijuana transportation;
         (m)   Refining of petroleum or its products;
         (n)   Salvage yards;
         (o)   Sanitary landfill or waste disposal area;
         (p)   Sewage lagoon;
         (q)   Temporary work force housing with occupancy of 20 or more; and
         (r)   Wind tower.
      (3)   Procedure. The procedure for the application, review and approval
of a specific use permit (or the amendment of a previously approved permit) is
as follows.
         (a)   Any person or business entity may file an application (the
“application”) with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer for a specific use permit for
applicant’s property on a written form satisfactory to the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer.
         (b)   The applicant shall provide the town’s Clerk-Treasurer a list of
property owners and mailing addresses for all property located within a 300-
foot radius of applicant’s property certified within 30 days of the application
by a county abstracter.
         (c)   The applicant shall deposit $250 with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer
to pay the expenses related to the application including, but not limited to,
postage and publication fees.
         (d)   The applicant shall submit to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer a site
plan for the property.
         (e)   The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall publish notice of the
application and set a public hearing date in a newspaper of general circulation
in the town and mail notice of the same to surrounding property owners as
required by 11 O.S. § 43-106.
         (f)   The town’s Planning and Zoning Commission shall, within 30 days
of the filing of a complete application, schedule and conduct a public hearing
on the application and make a recommendation on the application to the Town
Board.
         (g)   The town’s Planning and Zoning Commission and/or the Town Board
may employ experts or advisors to help them review an application.
         (h)   The Town Board shall, within 30 days after the public hearing by
the town’s Planning and Zoning Commission, uphold the recommendation, reject
the recommendation or modify the recommendation. The decision of the Town Board
shall be final. The Town Board may rely on the minutes of the town’s Planning
and Zoning Commission or hear the same or additional argument regarding the
application in its sole discretion.
         (i)   Any appeal of a decision by the Town Board under the provisions
of this section shall be filed in accordance with 11 O.S. § 43-109.1.
      (4)   Standards of review.
         (a)   The standards of review (the “standards”) for approval or denial
of a specific use permit include the following factors (the “factors”):
            1.   Traffic pattern and safety;
            2.   Available parking;
            3.   Odor;
            4.   Dust and air quality;
            5.   Noise;
            6.   Size of facility compared to total property size;
            7.   Use and value of adjoining property;
            8.   Risk of physical damage to adjoining property;
            9.   Economic development;
            10.   Job growth;
            11.   Sales tax revenue;
            12.   Environmental risk;
            13.   Financial ability of municipality to provide improvements;
            14.   Utility consumption;
            15.   Community image; and
            16.   Overall health, safety and welfare of the community.
         (b)   Each factor may not be applicable or individually receive the
same consideration. Any factor can be assigned greater or lesser weight during
the review process.
         (c)   The town’s Planning and Zoning Commission shall discuss the
current status of each factor separately (if applicable) as it relates to the
proposed use and determine whether or not collectively the proposed use
positively or negatively is:
            1.   Consistent with and promotes the intent and purpose of the
2024 Seiling Community Plan; and
            2.   Promotes the land use or activity so as to be compatible with
adjacent uses of land, the natural environment and the planned capacities of
public services and facilities affected by the land use.
         (d)   In the event the proposed use is determined to be positive, then
the specific use permit shall be recommended to the Town Board for approval. In
the event the proposed use is determined to be negative, then the specific use
permit shall be recommended for denial to the Town Board or approved with
conditions.
      (5)   Reasonable conditions.
         (a)   Reasonable conditions may be required in conjunction with the
approval of a specific use permit during the hearing process by either the
town’s Planning and Zoning Commission or the Town Board. Conditions imposed
shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   Be designed to take into consideration the natural
environment, the health, safety and welfare of the residents and property
owners immediately adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the
community as a whole;
            2.   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and to
the proposed use or activity;
            3.   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of existing zoning
requirements;
            4.   Be related to the standards established within this section
for the land use or activity under consideration; and
            5.   Be necessary to ensure compliance with those standards.
         (b)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a
specific use permit shall be stated in the record of the approval actions and
shall not be changed or amended, except as authorized by a zoning ordinance
with notice as specified thereby. The Town Board shall maintain a record of
conditions which are changed.
      (6)   Continued use of permit.
         (a)   In the event a specific use permit is approved (with or without
condition), then the applicant shall be required to actively commence the
approved specific use within one year after the approval date by the Town Board
or the same shall be void.
         (b)   If the specific use is commenced and then ceases for a period of
one year or more, then the specific use permit shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-2)
   (C)   Yards. There shall be no yard area restrictions on any business or
industrial enterprise located in the C Business-Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-3)
   (D)   Lot area; intensity of use. There shall be no lot area restrictions or
intensity of use other than fire and health restrictions imposed by other
ordinances of the town or applicable state and federal statutes or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-4)
   (E)   Other.
      (1)   C1, Neighborhood Commercial. The Neighborhood Commercial District
is intended for uses necessary for the conduct of retail trade and to provide
personal services to meet the regular needs and for the convenience of people
in adjacent residential areas. Uses include banks, shops, drug store, food
stores, restaurants and the like.
      (2)   C2, General Commercial. The General Commercial District is intended
for the general service and retail businesses in the community. Uses include
all C-1 activities, plus automobile sales, lumber yards, service stations and
the like.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-11-2019; Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-16-2020; Ord. 2021-6,
passed 9-20-2021)
§ 154.33 D, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   AG-1, General Agricultural.
      (1)   The zoning of “AG-1 General Agricultural” is intended for the uses
necessary for the conduct of farming, ranching and general agricultural
business.
      (2)   “AG-2 Residential Agricultural” zoning is intended to allow for
citizens to be annexed into the town limits, while still allowing for all
intents and purposes of general agricultural business to continue and allow the
same permitted uses as described in AG-1 General Agricultural zoning.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-1)
   (B)   Permitted uses and activities. Any land designated as AG-1 or AG-
2 will have the following permitted uses:
      (1)   Bees;
      (2)   Cultivating the soil;
      (3)   Growing crops;
      (4)   Horticultural;
      (5)   Livestock (including fowl);
      (6)   Planting seed;
      (7)   Rice;
      (8)   Silvicultural (forestry);
      (9)   Viticulture (grapevines); and
      (10)   Also, permitted will be the lawful burning of crops, trash and
debris, after reporting such control burns to the county in which the property
is located.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-3)
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 154.34 PUBLIC/INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Public and institutional. The intent of the Public/Institutional
Zoning District is to provide a zoning district that encourages the development
of public institutional type uses appropriate for emergency staging areas,
public infrastructure, government administrative facilities, maintenance
facilities, public schools, school grounds and quasi-public buildings and
facilities, fire stations, community recreation halls, parks, open spaces,
public libraries, police stations, public parking lots, visitors’ centers,
water and wastewater treatment facilities, community swimming pools, airports
or heliports, town-owned healthcare centers and nursing facilities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted within the public/
institutional zone:
      (1)   Emergency staging areas;
      (2)   Public infrastructure, including roadways, utilities, regional
storm water facilities, off-site critical area mitigation areas and parks
designed by the adopted Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Government administrative facilities, including Town Hall and the
Municipal Court;
      (4)   Maintenance facilities and storage areas, including temporary or
permanent emergency staging areas;
      (5)   Schools and related lands;
      (6)   Fire stations and related training facilities;
      (7)   Community recreation halls;
      (8)   Parks, open spaces and community ballfields for active or passive
recreation or enjoyment;
      (9)   Public libraries or museums;
      (10)   Police stations;
      (11)   Public parking lots;
      (12)   Visitors’ centers and information kiosks;
      (13)   Wastewater treatment facilities, including biosolids treatment,
composting facilities and public storm water detention and/or treatment
facilities;
      (14)   Community swimming pools, other water recreation areas;
      (15)   Airport or heliport; and
      (16)   Town-owned health care facilities, including nursing centers.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-2)
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-16-2020)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.45 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Town Administrator at the direction of
the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1)
§ 154.46 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created within the town a Board of Adjustment
with the powers and duties, as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Composition; appointment; term; removals. The Board of Adjustment
shall consist of five members, each to be appointed for a term of three years
and removable for cause by the town’s Board of Trustees upon written charges
and after public hearing.
   (C)   Vacancies. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any
member whose term becomes vacant.
   (D)   Organization.
      (1)   Officers.
         (a)   Chair. The Board of Adjustment shall elect a chair from its
membership each year.
         (b)   Clerk. The town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall serve as the Clerk of
the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Meetings.
         (a)   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of
the Chair and at such other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine.
         (b)   The Chair or, in his or her absence, the Acting Chair may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
         (c)   The Board of Adjustment shall be subject to the open meeting
laws of the state, and all meetings, deliberations and voting of the Board
shall be open to the public.
      (4)   Minutes and records. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of
its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of all
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
town’s Clerk-Treasurer and shall be public record.
   (E)   Powers.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to:
         (a)   Hear and decide appeals if it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Town Administrator in
the enforcement of this chapter;
         (b)   Hear and decide special exceptions to this chapter to allow a
use, or a specifically designated element associated with a use, which is not
permitted by right in a particular district because of potential adverse
effect, but which, if controlled in the particular instance as to its
relationship to the neighborhood and to the general welfare, may be permitted
by the Board of Adjustment, where specifically authorized by this chapter, and
in accordance with the substantive and procedural standards of this chapter;
         (c)   Authorize in specific cases a variance from the terms, standards
and criteria that pertain to an allowed use category within a zoning district
as authorized by this chapter when such cases are shown not to be contrary to
the public interest if, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship and so that
the spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice done;
provided, however, the Board shall have no power to authorize variances as to
use except as provided by division (E)(1)(d) below; and
         (d)   Hear and decide oil and/or gas applications or appeals unless
prohibited throughout the town by ordinance. The Board of Adjustment shall be
required to make the findings prescribed by §
154.48 of this chapter in order to grant a variance as to use with respect to
any such application or appeal.
      (2)   Exceptions and/or variances may be allowed by the Board of
Adjustment only after notice and hearing as provided in §
154.50 of this chapter and 11 O.S. § 44-108. The record of the meeting at which
the variance or special exception was granted shall show that each element of a
variance or special exception was established at the public hearing on the
question; otherwise, said variance or special exception shall be voidable on
appeal to the District Court.
   (F)   Extent of relief.
      (1)   In exercising the powers of the Board of Adjustment, the Board may,
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination from which
appealed and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as
ought to be made, and to that end, shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken.
      (2)   The concurring vote of at least three members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement and decision or
determination of the Town Administrator, or to decide in favor of the
applicant, or to decide any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter or to effect any variation in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2)
§ 154.47 LAND USE PERMIT.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to change or permit
the change in the use of land or buildings or structures or to erect, alter,
move or change the structural dimensions of any building or structure until a
land use permit has been obtained under the following conditions.
   (A)   Whenever any structure or building is to be erected, moved or
structurally altered, a land use permit shall be obtained from the town’s
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The applicant for a land use permit may be required to furnish the
following information:
      (1)   A plot plan, drawn to scale, showing the exact size, shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location on the lot
of all existing buildings and structures, and the exact size and location on
the lot of the structure or building proposed to be repaired, altered, erected
or moved, and the size, arrangement, number of parking stalls, movement of
vehicles and ingress and egress drives for all off-street parking and loading
facilities;
      (2)   A declaration of the existing and intended use of each existing and
proposed building or structure on the lot and the number of families and
housekeeping units which each existing building accommodates and which each
existing and proposed building is designed to accommodate;
      (3)   The location of streets and alleys adjoining the property should be
shown on the plot plan, including measurement from the center of the street/
alley to the edge of the building or addition; and
      (4)   Additional information relating to the proposed improvement needed
to determine compliance with these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-3) (Ord. 2007-1, passed 5-14-2007; Ord. 2009-10, passed 8-
10-2009)
§ 154.48 VARIANCES.
   A variance from the terms of this chapter may be granted only upon finding
by the Board of Adjustment that:
   (A)   The application of this chapter to the particular piece of property
would create an unnecessary hardship;
   (B)   Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved;
   (C)   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good or impair the purposes and intent of this chapter; and
   (D)   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum necessary to alleviate
the unnecessary hardship.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-4)
§ 154.49 APPEALS.
   (A)   To Board of Adjustment. Appeals from any action or decision of the
Town Administrator acting pursuant to this chapter shall be made to the Board
of Adjustment in the following manner.
      (1)   Authority to appeal. Appeals from the action of the Town
Administrator to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved
or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the town affected by any
decision of the Town Administrator.
      (2)   Time for appeal; filing; records to Town Clerk-Treasurer.
         (a)   An appeal shall be taken within 30 days from the date of the
grievance by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and by
filing with the Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
therefor.
         (b)   The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the town’s Clerk- Treasurer certified copies of all the papers
constituting the record of the matter, together with a copy of the ruling or
order from which the appeal is taken.
      (3)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed
with him or her, that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay
would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order
which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment on due cause shown.
      (4)   Hearing, notice and decision. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as
well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney.
   (B)   From Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Authority to appeal; time for filing. An appeal from any action,
decision, ruling, judgment or order of the Board of Adjustment may be taken by
any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved, or any taxpayer, or any
officer, department, board or bureau of the town to the County District Court
by filing with the town’s Clerk-Treasurer, within ten days of such action,
decision, ruling, judgment or order, a notice of appeal.
      (2)   Records to Court Clerk. Upon filing the notice of appeal, the Board
of Adjustment shall forthwith transmit to the Court Clerk the original or
certified copies of all papers constituting the record in the case, together
with the order, decision or ruling of the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Stay of proceedings.
         (a)   An appeal to the district court from the Board of Adjustment
stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the
chair of the Board certifies to the Court Clerk, after the notice of appeal has
been filed, that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would,
in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
         (b)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
a restraining order which may be granted by the District Court upon application
or notice to the Town Administrator, and upon notice to the Chair of the Board,
and upon due cause being shown.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-5)
§ 154.50 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Notice of public hearing before the Board of Adjustment shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the town and by
mailing written notice by the Clerk of the Board of Adjustment to all owners of
property within a 300-foot radius of the exterior boundary of the subject
property.
      (2)   A copy of the published notice may be mailed in lieu of written
notice; however, the notice by publication and written notice shall be
published and mailed at least ten days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The notice, whether by publication or mail, of a public hearing before
the Board of Adjustment shall contain:
      (1)   The legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the town;
      (2)   Present zoning classification of the property and the nature of the
appeal, variance or exception requested; and
      (3)   Date, time and place of hearing.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-6)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-7)
   (B)   Any owner found violating any provisions of §
154.30 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances for such offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-7)
   (C)   Any failure hereafter by a property owner to apply for a specific use
permit when required herein, or failure to obey the decision of the Town Board
as to any application for a specific use permit, per §
154.32(B) of this chapter, shall constitute a violation of this section and be
deemed a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not less than $500 for each offense.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-2)
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 11-13-2017; Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-11-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cites Code Section
O.S. Cites             Code Section
                       90.21;
11 O.S. 1-102          151.02;
                       151.37
11 O.S. 11-22-106      111.15
11 O.S. 14-111         33.20
11 O.S. 16-101 et seq. 34.03
11 O.S. 16-112         35.15
11 O.S. 16-302         34.03
11 O.S. 27-101         33.01
11 O.S. 27-111         33.07
11 O.S. 27-118         33.41
11 O.S. 27-123         33.19
11 O.S. 27-131         33.01
11 O.S. 43-106         154.32
11 O.S. 43-109.1       154.32
11 O.S. 44-108         154.46
11 O.S. 16-301 et seq. 34.03
21 O.S. 1272—1289.23 130.24
37A O.S.               110.03
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq. 110.01
47 O.S.                70.02;
                       130.64
47 O.S. 12-201, sub. B 71.01
47 O.S. 756            130.64
50 O.S. 12             90.06
50 O.S. 16             90.07
50 O.S. 17             90.07
63 O.S. 1-1011         90.08
63 O.S. 683.3          32.24
65 O.S. 1-101—7-102  93.01
65 O.S. 4-103          93.01
68 O.S. 205            35.17
75 O.S. 250 et seq.    33.04
75 O.S. 309—317      33.04
                       
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code 2024 Code
1-1-1      10.01
1-1-2      10.02
1-1-3      10.03
1-1-4      10.04
1-2-1      10.05
1-2-2      10.06
1-2-3      10.07
1-3-1      10.08
1-3-2      10.09
1-3-3      10.10
1-4-1      10.99
1-4-2      10.99
1-4-3      10.99
1-5-1      30.01
1-5-2      30.02
1-5-3      30.03
1-5-4      30.04
1-5-5      30.05
1-6-1      31.01
1-6-2      31.02
1-6-3      31.03
1-6A-1     31.15
1-6A-2     31.15
1-6A-3     31.15
1-6A-4     31.15
1-6A-5     31.15
1-6B-1     31.16
1-6B-2     31.16
1-6B-3     31.16
1-6C-1     31.17
1-7-1      33.01
1-7-2      33.02
1-7-3      33.03
1-7-4      33.04
1-7-5      33.05
1-7-6      33.06
1-7-7      33.07
1-7-8      33.08
1-7-9      33.09
1-7-10     33.10
1-7-11     33.11
1-7-12     33.12
1-7-13     33.13
1-7-14     33.35—
           33.43
1-7-15     33.14
1-7-16     33.15
1-7-17     33.16
1-7-18     33.17
1-7-19     33.18
1-7-20     33.19
1-7-21     33.20
1-8-1      34.01
1-8-2      34.02
1-8-3      34.03
1-8-4      34.04
1-8-5      34.05
1-8-6      34.06
1-8-7      34.07
1-8-8      34.08
2-1-1      31.30
2-1-2      31.30
2-1-3      31.30
2-1-4      31.30
2-1-5      31.30
2-1-6      31.30
2-1-7      31.30
2-1-8      31.30
2-2-1      31.31
2-2-2      31.31
2-2-3      31.31
2-2-4      31.31
2-2-5      31.31
2-2-6      31.31
2-3-1      31.32
2-3-2      31.32
2-3-3      31.32
2-3-4      31.32
2-3-5      31.32
3-1-1      36.01
3-1-2      36.02
3-1-3      36.03
3-1-4      36.04
3-1-5      36.05
3-1-6      36.06
3-1-7      36.07
3-1-8      36.08
3-1-9      36.09
3-1-10     36.10
3-1-11     36.11
3-2A-1     35.15
3-2A-2     35.15
3-2B-1     35.16
3-2B-2     35.16
3-2C-1     35.17
3-2C-2     35.17
3-2C-3     35.17
3-2C-4     35.17
3-2C-5     35.17
3-2C-6     35.17
3-2C-7     35.17
3-2C-8     35.17
3-2C-9     35.17
3-2C-10    35.17
3-2C-11    35.17
3-2C-12    35.17
3-2C-13    35.17
3-2C-14    35.17
3-2C-15    35.99
3-2C-16    35.17
3-3-1      35.01
3-3-2      35.01
3-3-3      35.01
3-3-4      35.01
3-3-5      35.01
3-3-6      35.01
3-3-7      35.01
4-1-1      110.01
4-1-2      110.02
4-1-3      110.03
4-1-4      110.04
4-1-5      110.05;
           110.99
4-2-1      111.30
4-2-2      111.31
4-2-3      111.32
4-2-4      111.33
4-2-5      111.34
4-2-6      111.35
4-2-7      111.36;
           111.99
4-2-8      111.37
4-2-9      111.38
4-3-1      111.15
4-3-2      111.15
4-3-3      111.15
4-3-4      111.15
4-3-5      111.15
4-4-1      111.16
4-4-2      111.16
4-4-3      111.16
4-4-4      111.16
4-4-5      111.16
4-5-1      111.17
4-5-2      111.18
4-5-3      111.01
4-5-4      111.99
4-6-1      112.01
4-6-2      112.02
4-6-3      112.99
4-6-4      112.03
5-1-1      90.01
5-1-2      90.02
5-1-3      90.03
5-1-4      90.04
5-1-5      90.05
5-1-6      90.06
5-1-7      90.07
5-1-8      90.08
5-1-9      90.99
5-2-1-1    90.20
5-2-1-2    90.21
5-2-1-3    90.22
5-2-1-4    90.23
5-2-1-5    90.24
5-2-1-6    90.25
5-2-2-1    151.01
5-2-2-2    151.02
5-2-2-3    151.03
5-2-2-4    151.04
5-2-2-5    151.05
5-2-3-1    151.20
5-2-3-2    151.21
5-2-3-3    151.35—
           151.45
5-2-3-4    151.22
5-3-1      90.40
5-3-2      90.41
5-3-3      90.42
5-3-4      90.43
5-3-5      90.44
5-3-6      90.99
6-1-1      32.01
6-1-2      32.02
6-1-3      32.03
6-1-4      32.04
6-1-5      32.05
6-1-6      32.06
6-1-7      32.07
6-1-8      32.08
6-2-1      32.20
6-2-2      32.21
6-2-3      32.22
6-2-4      32.23
6-2-5      32.24
6-2-6      32.25
6-2-7      32.26
6-2-8      32.27
6-2-9      32.28
6-3-1      91.01
6-3-2      91.02
6-3-3      91.03
6-3-4      91.04
6-3-5      91.05
6-3-6-1    91.20
6-3-6-2    91.21
6-3-6-3    91.22
6-3-6-4    91.23
6-3-6-5    91.24
6-3-6-6    91.25
6-3-6-7    91.99
6-4-1      130.01
6-4-2      130.02
6-4A-1     130.20
6-4A-2     130.21
6-4A-3     130.22
6-4A-4     130.22
6-4A-5     130.22
6-4A-6     130.23
6-4A-7     130.24;
           130.99
6-4A-8     130.25
6-4A-9     130.26;
           130.99
6-4B-1     130.40
6-4B-2     130.41
6-4B-3     130.42
6-4B-4     130.42;
           130.99
6-4B-5     130.42
6-4B-6     130.43
6-4B-7     130.44
6-4B-8     130.45
6-4B-9     130.46
6-4B-10    130.47;
           130.99
6-4C-1     130.60
6-4C-2     130.60
6-4C-3     130.61
6-4C-4     130.62
6-4C-5     130.63
6-4C-6     130.64;
           130.99
6-4C-7     130.65
6-4D-1     130.03
6-4D-2     130.04;
           130.99
6-4D-3     130.05
6-4D-4     130.06
6-4D-5     130.07
6-4D-6     130.48
6-4D-7     130.49
6-4D-8     130.99
6-5-1      130.27;
           130.99
6-5-2      130.28;
           130.99
6-6-1      92.01
6-6-2      92.02
6-6-3      92.03
6-6-4      92.04
6-6-5      92.05
6-6-6      92.06
6-6-7      92.07
6-6-8      92.08
6-6-9      92.09
6-6-10     92.10;
           92.99
6-6-11     92.11;
           92.99
6-6-12     92.12
6-6-13     92.13
6-6-15     92.14;
           92.99
7-1-1      70.01
7-1-2      70.02
7-1-3      70.03
7-1-4      70.04;
           70.99
7-2-1      70.05;
           70.99
7-2-2      70.06;
           70.99
7-3-1      71.01
7-3-2      71.02
7-3-3      71.03
7-3-4      71.99
7-4-1      71.15
7-4-2      71.16
7-4-3      71.17
7-4-4      71.18
7-4-5      71.19
8-1-1      152.01;
           152.99
8-2-1      93.02
8-2-2      93.02
8-2-3      93.02
8-2-4      93.99
8-3-1      93.01
8-3-2      93.01
8-3-3      93.01
9-1-1      51.01
9-1-2      51.02
9-1-3      51.03
9-1-4      51.04
9-1-5      51.05
9-1-6      51.06
9-1-7      51.07
9-1-8      51.08
9-1-9      51.09
9-2A-1     52.01
9-2A-2     52.02
9-2A-3     52.03
9-2A-4     52.04
9-2A-5     52.05
9-2A-6     52.99
9-2B-1     52.20
9-2B-2     52.21
9-2B-3     52.22
9-2B-4     52.23
9-2C-1     52.35
9-2C-2     52.36
9-2C-3     52.37
9-2C-4-1   52.38
9-2C-4-2   52.38
9-2C-4-3   52.38
9-2C-4-4   52.38
9-2C-5     52.39
9-2C-6     52.40
9-2C-7     52.41
9-2C-8     52.42
9-2C-9     52.43
9-2C-10    52.44
9-2C-11    52.45
9-2C-12    52.99
9-3-1      53.01
9-3-2      53.02
9-3-3      53.03
9-3-4      53.04
9-3-5      53.05
9-3-6      53.06
9-4-1      50.01
9-4-2      50.02
9-4-3      50.03
9-4-4      50.99
10-1-1     150.01
10-1-2     150.02
10-1-3     150.03;
           150.99
10-1-4     150.04
10-1-5     150.05
10-2-1     94.01
10-2-2     94.02
10-2-3     94.03
10-2-4     94.04
10-2-5     94.05
10-2-6     94.99
10-3-1     152.15
10-3-2     152.16
10-3-3     152.17
10-3-4     152.18
10-3-5     152.19
10-3-6     152.20
10-3-7     152.99
10-4-1     153.01
10-4-2     153.02
10-4-3     153.03
10-4-4     153.04
10-4-5     153.05
10-4-6     153.06
10-4-7     153.07
10-4-8     153.08
10-4-9     153.09
10-4-10    153.10
10-4-11    153.11
10-4-12    153.12
11-1-1     154.01
11-1-2     154.02
11-2-1     154.45
11-2-2     154.46
11-2-3     154.47
11-2-4     154.48
11-2-5     154.49
11-2-6     154.50
11-2-7     154.99
11-3-1     154.15
11-3-2     154.16
11-3-3     154.17
11-3-4     154.18
11-3-5     154.19
11-4-1     154.30
11-4-2     154.30
11-4-3     154.30
11-4-4     154.30
11-4-5     154.30
11-4-6     154.30
11-4-7     154.99
11-5-1     154.31
11-5-2     154.31
11-5-3     154.31
11-5-4     154.31
11-6-1     154.32
11-6-2     154.32;
           154.99
11-6-3     154.32
11-6-4     154.32
11-7-1     154.33
11-7-3     154.33
11-8-1     154.03
11-8-2     154.03
11-9-2     154.34
11-10-1    154.04
11-10-2    154.04
11-10-3    154.04
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed    Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed    Code Section
2004-1   7-23-2004   35.15
2005-1   1-10-2005   35.16
2005-3   12-12-2005  35.15
2006-1   9-11-2006   35.15
2006-2   11-13-2006  30.01
2007-1   5-14-2007   154.47
2007-2   6-11-2007   31.15
                     152.15—
2007-3   9-10-2007   152.20;
                     152.99
                     91.01;
2007-4   10-9-2007   91.21;
                     91.25
2008-3   2-14-2008   70.06;
                     70.99
2008-7   6-20-2008   31.15
2008-9   11-10-2008  130.28;
                     130.99
2008-10  12-8-2008   33.11
2009-4   5-11-2009   36.01—
                     36.11
2009-5   6-8-2009    33.20
2009-7   7-13-2009   53.01—
                     53.06
2009-8   7-13-2009   51.03
2009-10  8-10-2009   154.47
                     71.01—
2010-6   10-12-2010  71.03;
                     71.99
2011-2   2-14-2011   33.04
2011-3   6-13-2011   130.27
2011-4   7-11-2011   32.07
2011-7   12-12-2011  71.15—
                     71.19
2012-2   2-13-2012   70.05;
                     70.99
2013-1   3-11-2013   33.20
2013-3   9-9-2013    35.17;
                     35.99
2014-1   4-14-2014   32.01
2014-2   4-14-2014   35.01
2014-3   4-14-2014   111.16
2014-4   7-14-2014   35.15
2016-1   1-11-2016   35.15
2016-2   6-13-2016   90.02
2016-5   7-11-2016   33.19
2016-4   7-26-2016   154.15
2017-2   11-13-2017  154.30;
                     154.99
2018-3   8-13-2018   94.03
2018-5   8-13-2018   111.15
2018-4   10-9-2018   152.18
                     92.01—
2018-7   11-13-2018  92.14;
                     92.99
                     110.01—
2018-6   3-11-2019   110.05;
                     110.99;
                     130.28
2019-2   3-11-2019   154.32;
                     154.99
                     112.01—
2019-3   4-8-2019    112.03;
                     112.99
                     154.15;
2020-1   3-16-2020   154.32;
                     154.34
2020-2   6-8-2020    33.04
2021-2   4-12-2021   154.30
2021-5   9-20-2021   91.25
2021-6   9-20-2021   154.32
2021-7   9-20-2021   112.01
2021-8   9-20-2021   154.04
2021-9   9-20-2021   111.15
2022-1   1-10-2022   51.04
2022-2   3-14-2022   52.04
2022-3   3-14-2022   112.01;
                     112.02
2022-4   3-14-2022   33.20
2022-5   3-14-2022   130.65;
                     130.99
2022-8   12-12-2022  35.02
                     91.01;
2023-1   1-9-2023    91.23—
                     91.25;
                     91.99
2023-4   8-14-2023   154.15;
                     154.33
2023-5   8-14-2023   90.23
2023-6   8-14-2023   70.06;
                     70.99
2023-7   11-13-2023  30.03
2024-2   4-8-2024    35.15
2024-5   10-21-2024  Adopting Ordinance
2025-3   4-14-2025   110.04
                    
 
