CITY CODE of
SEMINOLE, OKLAHOMA
Code current through:
Ord. 1302, passed 5-14-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Seminole, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including Ordinance 1302, passed 5-14-2024. Ordinances of
the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1092
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
SEMINOLE, OKLAHOMA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED
THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREAFTER PROVIDED; PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL
BECOME EFFECTIVE; PROVIDING FOR SALE AND COPIES IN THE CLERK'S OFFICE;
PROVIDING FOR SUPPLEMENTS OR CHANGES TO CODE; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SEMINOLE, OKLAHOMA:
Section 1 Title.
A code and revision of the ordinances of the city of Seminole is hereby adopted
as the "Code Of Ordinances, City Of Seminole, Oklahoma," or by any other
properly identifying designation.
Section 2 Code Supersedes Other Ordinances.
This code shall be treated and considered as a new and comprehensive
compilation of ordinances of the city which shall supersede all other general
and permanent ordinances enacted by the council prior to October 15, 2008.
However, all provisions which are incorporated by reference are expressly saved
from repeal and shall continue in full force and effect.
Section 3 Effective Date Of Code, Repeal.
All provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect from the date
this ordinance becomes law. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the city in effect on or before October 13, 2008, and not in the code or
recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
Section 4 Ordinances Not Repealed.
The repeal provided for in section 3 hereof shall not affect any offense or act
committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or
right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing
the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the city; nor shall the repeal affect the administrative
regulations or resolution of the city council not in conflict or inconsistent
with the provisions of the code; nor shall the repeal affect any right or
franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the city council to any
person, firm or corporation; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, vacating,
etc., any street or public way in the city; nor shall the repeal affect any
annual budget or salary ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
levying or imposing taxes; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance providing for local improvements and
assessing charges therefor; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance extending
the limits of the city; nor shall the repeal be construed to revive any
ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance
which is repealed by this ordinance. The continuance in effect of temporary or
special ordinances and parts of ordinances, although omitted from the code,
shall not be affected by such omission therefrom; and the adoption of the code
shall not repeal or amend any such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
Section 5 Code Not New Enactment.
The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this code, shall be
considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Section 6 Ordinances Adopted After Effective Date Of Code.
Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed or
adopted after the effective date of this code may be passed or adopted either:
1.   In the form of amendments to the code of ordinances adopted by this
ordinance; or
2.   Without specific reference to the code.
In either case, all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed
amendments to the code. All of the substantive permanent and general parts of
such ordinances and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made
in the code whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or ordinance
of the council, as provided hereinafter.
Section 7 Supplements To Code.
Any modification or supplement to the code of ordinances shall be updated
electronically and/or printed as authorized by the city council. A change to
the code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of
ordinances passed by the council or adopted by initiative and referendum during
the period covered by the change and all changes made thereby in the code. All
changes shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and,
where necessary, replace provisions which have become obsolete or partially
obsolete, and new provisions shall be so prepared that, when they have been
inserted, the code will be sequentially numbered and updated as required. The
city clerk shall be responsible for updating all official copies of the code
maintained by the city and placed in the Seminole County law library as
required by state statute.
Section 8 Sale Of Copies Of The Code.
The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of the code of
ordinances to the public at a price determined from time to time by motion or
resolution of the city council.
Section 9 Copy Of Code In Clerk's Office.
A copy of the current code as amended or supplemented from time to time shall
be kept on file in the office of the city clerk. This copy of the code shall be
available for all persons desiring to examine it; it shall be considered by the
city clerk as may be required.
Section 10 Preparation Of Code.
The code of ordinances hereby adopted was prepared by Sterling Codifiers and
consists of seventeen (17) titles, all of which have been examined, considered
and approved by the council of the city of Seminole and adopted by compliance
with sections 14-109 et seq. of title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
Section 11 Emergency.
Reference being made to "section 3" hereinbefore set out, it is immediately
necessary for the preservation of the peace, health and safety of the city and
the inhabitants thereof that the provisions of this code not heretofore enacted
be put into full force and effect. An emergency is hereby declared to exist, by
reason whereof this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and
after its passage, as provided by law.
   PASSED AND APPROVED this 10th day of February, 2009, by the mayor and city
council of the city of Seminole, Oklahoma.
          _______________________
         Mayor Chayne Fisher
ATTEST:
 
_______________________
Jay F. Cox, city clerk
(SEAL)
Approved:
_______________________
Brad Carter, city attorney
CHARTER OF THE CITY
OF SEMINOLE, OKLAHOMA
Adopted, Election of September 11, 1970
Amended, Election of March 13, 2018
PREAMBLE
We, the people of the city of Seminole, Oklahoma, exercising the powers of home
rule granted to us by the constitution and laws of the state of Oklahoma, in
order to provide for more efficient, adequate, and economical government, do
hereby ordain, ratify and establish this charter of the city of Seminole,
Oklahoma.
ARTICLE I
INCORPORATION, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, POWERS
Section 1-1 Incorporation.
The city of Seminole, Oklahoma, within the corporate limits as now established
or as hereafter may be established, shall continue to be a municipal body
politic and corporate in perpetuity under the name of the "City of Seminole,
Oklahoma". It shall succeed to and possess all the property, rights,
privileges, franchises, powers and immunities now belonging to the corporation
known as the city of Seminole, Oklahoma, and shall be liable for all debts and
other obligations for which the corporation is legally bound at the time this
charter goes into effect.
Section 1-2 City Government.
All powers of the city shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this
charter, or, if the manner is not thus prescribed, then in such manner as the
council may prescribe by ordinance.
Section 1-3 Power Of The City.
The city shall have all powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises, and
immunities granted to cities by the state constitution and law, and all the
implied powers necessary to carry into execution all the powers granted. Except
as prohibited by the state constitution or law, the city shall have all
municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises, and immunities of
every name and nature whatsoever. The city shall have power to adopt a
corporate seal and alter it at pleasure, to sue and to be sued, and to make
contracts. It shall have power to acquire property within or without its
corporate limits for any city purpose, including public utilities, works and
ways, in fee simple or any lesser interest or estate, by purchase, gift,
devise, lease, condemnation, or other legal means, and to hold, maintain,
improve, enlarge, manage, control, operate, lease, sell, convey, or otherwise
dispose of, such property as its interests may require, including public
utilities, works, and ways. It shall have power to incur indebtedness and to
issue bonds within the limitations prescribed by state constitution.
It shall have power to accept and administer federal and state grants-in-aid
and to do everything necessary to accomplish the purpose or purposes for which
such grants may be made. It shall have power to ordain and to enforce local
legislation for the proper organization and functioning of the city government,
for the preservation and enforcement of good government and order, for the
protection of health, life, morals, and property, for the prevention, summary
abatement, and removal of nuisances, and otherwise for the promotion of the
common welfare. It shall have power to grant, extend, and renew franchises in
accordance with the state constitution.
The enumeration or mention of particular powers by this charter shall not be
deemed to be exclusive or limiting and in addition to the powers enumerated or
mentioned, herein, or implied hereby, the city shall have all powers which,
under the state constitution and law, it would be competent for this charter
specifically to enumerate or mention.
Provisions of state law relating to matters which may be regulated by cities
operating under charters shall be in effect only insofar as they are applicable
and are not superseded by this charter or by ordinance.
ARTICLE II
OFFICERS
Section 2-1 Elective Officers.
The elective officers of the city shall be a mayor, elected at large and two
(2) councilmen from each ward. There shall be four (4) wards.
Section 2-2 Compensation Of Elective Officers.
The mayor and council may by ordinance determine the compensation of such
elective officers, provided, any compensation established within the fiscal
year shall not be payable within the same fiscal year. Elective officers may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the discharge of their official duties.
Section 2-3 Appointive Officers.
The appointive officers of the city shall be a city manager, a fire chief, a
police chief, a city clerk, a city treasurer, a city attorney, a municipal
judge, and such subordinate officers as the mayor and council shall deem
necessary for the efficient operation of the city. The city manager, city
attorney, city clerk, city treasurer and municipal judge shall be appointed by
the mayor and council. All remaining officers and heads of departments shall be
appointed by the city manager.
Section 2-4 Compensation Of Appointive Officers.
Appointive officers shall receive such compensation as may be set by mayor and
council by motion duly made and passed or by inclusion in annual appropriation
bill.
Section 2-5 Leave Of Absence.
Any officer other than the city manager desiring to be temporarily absent from
duty shall comply with rules and regulations adopted by the mayor and council.
In the absence of such rules, absence from duty shall be approved by the city
manager.
Section 2-6 Vacancies.
All officers elected shall be qualified electors of the city, and all
councilmen shall be actual residents of the ward from which they may be
elected, and the removal of any officer from the city or of any councilman from
the ward from which he was elected, shall cause a vacancy in the office.
Section 2-7 Delivery To Successor.
Every officer and employee shall, upon going out of office or when employment
shall cease, deliver to his successor all books, papers, furniture, tools,
equipment and other things pertaining to his office or employment.
ARTICLE III
MAYOR
Section 3-1 Presiding Officer.
The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the council, and shall have a
casting vote when the council is equally divided, and shall take care that the
provisions of this charter are complied with.
Section 3-2 Sign Commissions And Approve Bonds.
The mayor shall sign the commissions and appointments of all officers, elected
or appointed, and endorse the approval of all official bonds approved by the
mayor and council.
Section 3-3 Sign Warrants.
The mayor shall sign all orders and warrants drawn upon the treasurer for
money.
Section 3-4 Veto Power.
The mayor shall have the power to sign or veto any city ordinance passed by the
council, provided that any ordinance vetoed by the mayor may be passed over his
veto by vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the members of the council,
notwithstanding the veto, and should the mayor neglect or refuse to sign any
ordinance or return the same with his objections in writing at the next meeting
of the council, the same shall become law without his signature.
Section 3-5 May Call Upon Citizens For Aid.
The mayor is hereby authorized to call upon every male inhabitant of the city,
over eighteen (18) years of age, and under the age of fifty (50) years, to aid
in enforcing the laws.
Section 3-6 Vacancy.
When any vacancy shall happen in the office of mayor, the president of the
council, for the time being, shall exercise the duties of the office of mayor,
until the vacancy is filled. In case of a vacancy in the office of mayor more
than six (6) calendar months to the next election, the person acting as mayor
shall cause an election to be held, giving ten (10) days' notice thereof by
proclamation.
Section 3-7 Power Of Appointment.
The mayor shall appoint, by and with the consent of the council, all officers
and board and commission members whose appointments are not otherwise provided
for by this charter or by law, and whenever a vacancy shall happen in any
office which by this charter or by law he is empowered to fill, he shall,
within thirty (30) days after the happening of such vacancy, communicate to the
council the name of his appointee to the office, and pending the concurrence of
the council in such appointment, the mayor may appoint some suitable person to
discharge the duties of the office until the next meeting of the council. All
officers so appointed by the mayor and council shall hold their offices until
their successors are chosen and qualified unless sooner removed.
ARTICLE IV
COUNCIL MEETINGS
Section 4-1 Council Meetings.
The council shall provide by ordinance the date, hour and place of regular
monthly meetings. Special meetings may be called by the mayor, or in the
absence of the mayor, by the president of the council, or upon request or
notice, in writing, signed by at least three (3) members of the council,
specifying the object and purpose of the meeting, which shall be read at the
meeting and entered at length in the journal, and no business shall be
transacted at the meeting except that specified in the request. In all cases,
it shall require a majority of the councilmen elected to constitute a quorum to
do business.
Section 4-2 President Of The Council.
The council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled the president
of the council, and who shall preside at all meetings of the council in the
absence of the mayor, and in the absence of the president, the council shall
elect one of its own body to occupy the place temporarily, who shall be styled
the acting president of the council and the president and acting president,
when occupying the place of the mayor shall have the same privileges of other
members of the council and all acts of the president or acting president, while
so acting, shall be as binding upon the council and upon the city as if done by
the mayor.
Section 4-3 Resignation.
The resignation of any member of the council shall be addressed in writing to
the presiding officer of the council and shall not take effect until accepted
by a majority vote of the members present.
Section 4-4 Vacancy.
In case of a vacancy in the office of councilman from any ward, the mayor shall
appoint, with the consent of the council, a person residing in the ward in
which the vacancy occurs, who shall hold office for the unexpired term.
Section 4-5 Powers.
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all powers of the city, including
the determination of all matters of policy, shall be vested in the mayor and
council. Without limitation of the foregoing, the council shall have power,
subject to state constitution, law and this charter:
   1.   To appoint and remove the city manager;
   2.   By ordinance to enact municipal legislation;
   3.   To raise revenue and make appropriations, and to regulate bond
elections, the issuance of bonds, sinking funds, the refunding of indebtedness,
salaries and wages and all other fiscal affairs of the city;
   4.   To inquire into the conduct of any office, department, or agency of the
city, and investigate municipal affairs;
   5.   To grant pardons, as recommended by the mayor, for violations of the
charter and ordinances, including the remission of fines and costs;
   6.   To regulate elections, the initiative and referendum, and recall;
   7.   To regulate the organization, powers, duties, and functions of the
municipal court;
   8.   To create, change, and abolish all offices, departments, and agencies,
of the city government other than the offices, departments, and agencies
created by this charter and to assign additional powers, duties and functions
to offices, departments and agencies created by this charter.
Section 4-6 Council Not To Interfere In Appointments And Removals.
The mayor and members of the city council shall not use undue influence or
pressure in the appointment or removal to or from employment by the city.
Except for the purpose of inquiry, or as a member of a personnel board, the
mayor and council shall deal with the administrative service through the city
manager.
Section 4-7 City Clerk To Be Clerical Officer Of The Council.
The city clerk, hereinafter provided for, shall also serve as clerical officer
of the council. He shall keep the journal of its proceedings and shall enroll
in a book or books kept for the purpose all ordinances and resolutions passed
by it; shall be custodian of such documents, records and archives as may be
provided by applicable law or ordinance; shall be custodian of the seal of the
city; and shall attest, and affix the seal to documents when required in
accordance with applicable law or ordinance.
Section 4-8 Absences To Terminate Membership.
If the mayor or any councilman shall be absent, without excuse, from more than
one-half (1/2) of all the meetings of the council, regular and special, held
within any period of four (4) consecutive calendar months, he shall thereupon
cease to hold office.
Section 4-9 Removal.
The mayor or any councilman may be removed from office for any cause specified
by applicable state law for the removal of officers, and by the method or
methods prescribed thereby, and by recall as provided in this charter.
ARTICLE V
ORDINANCES
Section 5-1 Enacting Clause.
The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the council shall be, "Be it
ordained by the people of the City of Seminole, Oklahoma", and of all
ordinances proposed by the voters under their power of initiative, "Be it
ordained by the people of the City of Seminole, Oklahoma".
Section 5-2 Passage, When In Effect.
Every proposed ordinance shall be read, and a vote of a majority of all the
councilmen shall be required for its passage. The vote on final passage of
every ordinance shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be entered in the journal.
Within ten (10) days after its passage, every ordinance, except an emergency
ordinance, shall be published in full or by number and title in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city. Every ordinance, except an emergency
ordinance, so published, shall become effective thirty (30) days after its
final passage unless it specifies a later time, provided that a franchise for a
public utility shall not go into effect until the ordinance granting it has
been published in full in a newspaper of general circulation within the city
and has been approved at an election by a vote of a majority of the qualified
electors voting on the question.
Section 5-3 Emergency.
An emergency ordinance is an ordinance which in the judgment of the council is
necessary for the immediate preservation of peace, health, or safety, and which
should become effective prior to the time when an ordinary ordinance would
become effective. Every such ordinance shall contain, as part of its title, the
words, "and declaring an emergency" and in a separate section, herein called
the emergency clause, shall declare the emergency. An affirmative vote of at
least six (6) councilmen shall be required for the passage of an emergency
ordinance. An emergency ordinance shall take effect upon passage unless it
specifies a later time.
Section 5-4 Adoption By Reference.
The council by ordinance may adopt by reference specific codes, ordinances,
standards, and regulations relating to building, plumbing, electrical
installations, health and safety, and other matters which it has power to
regulate otherwise. Such code, ordinance, standard or regulation so adopted
need not be enrolled in the book of ordinances, but three (3) copies shall be
filed and kept in the office of the city clerk. (amd. Res. 2018-06, - -2018)
Section 5-5 Codification.
The permanent general ordinances of the city shall be codified and published in
book or pamphlet form or by use of a loose-leaf system, and the city council
shall provide for keeping the code up-to-date. The ordinances and parts of
ordinances included in the code may contain new matter provisions of the state
constitution and law applicable to the city and this charter. A copy of the
published code shall be filed in the office of the city clerk after the council
adopts the code by ordinance.
ARTICLE VI
CITY MANAGER AND ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
Section 6-1 City Manager: Appointment, Term, Qualification, Removal.
There shall be a city manager. He shall be nominated by the mayor for an
indefinite term and shall be elected by a vote of at least six (6) members of
the city council. He shall be chosen solely on the basis of his executive and
administrative qualifications. At the time of his appointment, he need not be a
resident of the city or state, but, during his tenure of office, he shall
reside within the city. Neither the mayor, any councilman, nor any other
elected city official now or hereafter elected or selected to fill a vacancy,
may be appointed city manager or acting city manager during the term for which
he is elected or one year thereafter. The council may suspend or remove the
city manager at any time by a vote of a majority of all its members. The mayor
shall give him a written statement of the reason for removal at least fourteen
(14) days before removal becomes final and on request shall give him an
opportunity for a public hearing thereon after the expiration of such time
before removing him.
Section 6-2 Power And Duties.
The city manager shall be chief administrative officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. He shall execute the laws and
ordinances and administer the government of the city and shall be responsible
therefor to the mayor and council. He shall:
   1.   Appoint and when deemed necessary for the good of the service lay off,
suspend, demote, or remove any head of administrative departments and employees
of the city except as otherwise provided by ordinance or this charter.
   2.   Supervise, directly or indirectly, all administrative departments,
agencies, officers, and employees.
   3.   Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the council, be responsible
for the administration of the budget after it goes into effect, and recommend
to the council from time to time any necessary changes in the budget.
   4.   Submit to the council a report monthly and at the end of the fiscal
year on the finances and administrative activities of the city.
   5.   Keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs of
the city and make such recommendations to the council all matters of policy and
other matters as necessary.
   6.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as this charter may
prescribe and such powers, duties and functions consistent with this charter as
the mayor and council may prescribe.
Section 6-3 Administrative Departments, Offices And Agencies.
There shall be such administrative departments, offices and agencies as this
charter establishes and as the mayor and council may establish.
ARTICLE VII
FISCAL AFFAIRS
Section 7-1 City Clerk: Office Created, Duties.
There shall be a city clerk, who shall be an officer of the city appointed for
an indefinite term by the city council and administered by the city manager.
The city clerk shall collect or receive revenue and other money for the city
treasurer and shall keep adequate records thereof. He shall have such other
powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by the charter, by applicable
law, or by ordinance.
Section 7-2 City Treasurer: Duties.
There shall be a city treasurer appointed for an indefinite term by the city
council. The city treasurer shall receive all city funds from all sources of
city activities and shall deposit such funds received for the city in such
depositories as the city council may designate. The city treasurer shall report
quarterly to the city council the amounts of all city funds deposited, invested
or on hand at the end of the quarter and this report shall include the name and
location of depositories in which city funds are deposited or invested. The
city treasurer shall maintain a general accounting system for the city
government, or may set up such a system in the city clerk's department. He
shall cosign all city warrants. He shall have such other powers, duties and
functions as may be prescribed by the charter, by applicable law or by
ordinance and such officer may be a full time employee of the city.
Section 7-3 Purchases And Sales.
The city manager, subject to any regulations which the mayor and council may
prescribe, shall contract for and purchase or issue purchase authorizations for
all supplies, materials and equipment for the offices, departments and agencies
of the city government. Every such contract or purchase exceeding an amount to
be established by ordinance shall require the prior approval of the mayor and
council. The city manager also may transfer to or between offices, departments
and agencies, or sell surplus or obsolete supplies, materials and equipment
subject to such regulations as the mayor and council may prescribe.
Before the purchase of or contract for any supplies, materials or equipment or
the sale of any surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment ample
opportunity for competitive bidding shall be given under such regulations and
with such exceptions as the mayor and council may prescribe; but the mayor and
council shall not exempt an individual contract, purchase or sale from the
requirement of competitive bidding. The council by ordinance may transfer some
or all of the power granted to the city manager by this section to an
administrative officer appointed by the city manager.
Section 7-4 Sale Of Property Valued At More Than Fifty Thousand Dollars.
The sale of any property, real or personal, including public utilities, or of
any interest therein, the value of which is more than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) shall be made only:
   1.   By authority of an affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the city who vote on the question of approving or authorizing the
sale at an election; or
   2.   By authority of a special nonemergency ordinance. Such ordinance shall
be published in full in a newspaper of general circulation within the city
within ten (10) days after its passage and shall include a section reading
substantially as follows: "Section          This ordinance shall be referred to
a vote of the electors of the city if a legal and sufficient referendum
petition is properly filed within thirty (30) days after its passage, otherwise
it shall go into effect thirty (30) days after its passage".
Section 7-5 Public Trusts Authorized.
The purchase, construction, leasing, sale or conveyance of any property, real
or personal, or of any interest therein, by or in conjunction with any public
trust created by the government of the city of Seminole, which was not acquired
through real or personal tax receipts, shall be made in conformity to state
statutes governing such municipal trust authority and function.
Section 7-6 Public Improvements.
Public improvements may be made by the city government itself or by contract.
The council shall award all contracts for such improvements; provided, that the
council may authorize the city manager to award such contracts not exceeding an
amount to be determined by the council, and subject to such regulations as the
council may prescribe. Every contract for public improvement of such amount as
the council may determine by ordinance, shall be awarded to the lowest and best
responsible bidder after such notice and opportunity for competitive bidding as
the council may prescribe, or as is required by law.(amd. Res. 2018-07, 3-13-
2018)
Section 7-7 Fiscal Year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July and
shall end on the last day of June of every calendar year.
Section 7-8 Independent Annual Audit.
The mayor and council shall designate a certified public accountant or
accountants who shall make an independent audit of the accounts and evidences
of financial transactions of the department of finance and of all other
departments, offices and agencies keeping separate or subordinate accounts or
making financial transactions as of the end of every fiscal year at least and
who shall report to the council and the city manager. In lieu of the above, the
council may arrange with an appropriate state authority for such an audit when
and if permitted by law.
ARTICLE VIII
MUNICIPAL COURT
Section 8-1 Municipal Court.
There shall be a municipal judge, who shall be an officer of the city appointed
by the mayor with the consent of the council for a term of two (2) years, as
shall be provided by ordinance. Only the council may suspend or remove the
municipal judge or an acting municipal judge, by a vote of a majority of all
its members. The municipal judge shall have original jurisdiction to hear and
determine all cases involving offenses against the charter and ordinances of
the city. He shall be a resident lawyer and shall be paid a salary to be fixed
by the mayor and council. Any appointment to fill a vacancy shall be for the
unexpired term. The city attorney shall be the prosecuting officer of the court
and the chief of police shall be ex officio marshal of the court. Provisions
for jury trials and appeals shall be in conformity with the laws of the state
of Oklahoma. The municipal judge shall keep a record of all proceedings of the
municipal court, of the disposition of all cases, and of all fines and other
money collected. The municipal judge may issue warrants of arrest and
subpoenas, administer oaths and affirmations, make and enforce all proper
orders, rules, judgments and punish for contempt. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prevent the judge from engaging in the practice of law in any
other court during his tenure of office.
ARTICLE IX
ELECTIONS
Section 9-1 Councilmen: Overlapping Terms Of Two Years; Elected By Ward;
Nonpartisan Elections.
The terms of the first councilmen from wards one (1), two (2), three (3) and
four (4) under this charter shall expire at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M.,
on the first Friday in April, 1995. The terms of the second councilmen from
wards one (1), two (2), three (3) and four (4), shall expire at seven thirty
o'clock (7:30) P.M., on the first Friday in April, 1996. In each of these years
and every year thereafter, the successors of those whose terms are expiring
shall be elected for overlapping terms of two (2) years.
All councilmen shall be elected by ward, by the qualified electors of their
respective wards; candidates for councilmen must be residents of their
respective wards. Both the election and any runoff election shall be
nonpartisan; and no party designation or emblem shall be placed on the ballots.
Nothing in this charter shall prohibit the use of voting machines. (amd. Res.
2004-22, 12-14-2004)
Section 9-2 Mayor: Term Of Two Years; Elected At Large; Nonpartisan Election.
The term of the mayor shall expire at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M., on the
first Friday in April, 1995. In the year and every two (2) years thereafter, a
successor shall be elected for a two (2) year term. The mayor shall be elected
at large by the qualified electors of the entire city.
Candidates for mayor shall be residents of the city. Both the election and any
runoff election shall be nonpartisan and no party designation or emblem shall
be placed on the ballot. (amd. Res. 2004-22, 12-14-2004)
Section 9-3 Election: Filing: Notification.
Any qualified person may have his name placed on the ballot as a candidate for
councilperson or mayor by filing with the secretary of the Seminole County
election board a sworn statement of his candidacy. The filing period shall
begin at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., the first Monday in December and shall end
at five o'clock (5:00) P.M., on the following Wednesday. Not fewer than fifteen
(15) days before the filing period of a regular election, or in the event of a
special election, not fewer than sixty (60) days, the governing board of the
municipality shall submit a resolution to the secretary of the county election
board notifying the secretary of the offices for election and expiration of
term. (Amendment; amd. Res. 2004-22, 12-14-2004)
Section 9-4 Election: Time.
A primary election shall be held on the second Tuesday of February every year
to elect councilpersons to succeed those whose terms are expiring. However, in
those years the presidential election is to be held, said primary election
shall be held in conjunction with the annual school elections. If only one
person is a candidate for an office to be filled, he shall be elected ipso
facto, and his name shall not appear on the ballot. Every qualified elector of
the city shall be entitled to vote for one candidate for mayor and one
councilperson from his ward. (Amendment; amd. Res. 2004-22, 12-14-2004)
Section 9-5 Election: Who Elected.
In the election, if one of the candidates for an office receives a majority of
all votes cast for that office, he alone shall be elected. If no candidate
receives a majority of all votes cast, the two (2) candidates receiving the
greatest number of votes shall be certified for the runoff election. In case of
a tie, the candidate or candidates (as the case may be) for runoff shall be
determined from among those tying, fairly by lot, by the county election board
in a public meeting. If one of the two (2) candidates for the runoff election
dies or withdraws before the runoff election, the remaining candidate shall be
elected automatically, and his name need not appear on the ballot.
Section 9-6 Runoff Election: Time, When Not Held, Who Elected.
If, at the election provided for above, any office is not filled by majority
election, there shall be a runoff election which shall be held on the first
Tuesday in April. Every qualified elector of the city shall be entitled to vote
for one of the two (2) candidates for councilperson from his ward and for one
of the two (2) candidates for mayor but may not vote for any other person. The
candidate for each office receiving the greater number of votes shall be
elected. In case of a tie, the election shall be determined, fairly by lot, by
the Seminole County election board in a public meeting. (Amendment; amd. Res.
2004-22, 12-14-2004)
Section 9-7 Registered Qualified Electors.
Only electors residing in the city who have the qualifications prescribed for
electors by the state constitution and law, and who are registered as required
by law, may vote in city elections.
Section 9-8 Political Activity Of Officers And Employees.
No officer or employee of the city except the mayor, councilmen and personnel
who receive no compensation for their services, may work for or against, or
attempt to influence the election, or defeat of any candidate for councilman or
mayor, or the recall of any councilman or mayor; provided that this shall not
prohibit the ordinary exercise of one's right to express his opinions and to
vote. Any person who violates this provision shall be punished upon conviction
thereof as provided by city ordinance. Such violation shall constitute cause
for removal from office or employment and if the regular removal authority has
not already removed a person who violates this provision, he shall be
automatically removed by the said conviction of violating this provision
effective at the expiration of his right of appeal or, in case of appeal, when
the case if finally determined.
Section 9-9 State Constitution And Law To Govern.
The provisions of the state constitution and law applicable to city elections
shall govern such elections in this city insofar as they are applicable and are
not superseded by this charter or by ordinance. A proclamation of the mayor
calling a special election need not (but may) set forth the names of the
precinct officers who are to conduct the election, but shall give the locations
of the polling places.
ARTICLE X
RECALL
Section 10-1 Recall Authorized.
Every incumbent of an elective office, whether elected by popular vote or
appointed to fill a vacancy, is subject to removal by recall by the voters of
the city. The procedure to effect such removal from office shall be as follows:
Section 10-2 Recall Petition.
Whenever a valid petition, as defined in this section, demanding the removal of
one or more elected officers shall have been filed with the city clerk, it
shall be the duty of the mayor of the city, within ten (10) days after
certification by the city clerk, to issue a proclamation calling a special
election, for the purpose of such recall only, setting forth the question to be
voted upon, at such election, in a newspaper published and of general
circulation within the city. A valid petition is defined for purposes of this
section as one signed by a number qualified electors of the city equal to at
least twenty-five per centum (25%) of the registered voters, who are, at the
time the petition was filed, entitled to vote for a successor to the incumbent
sought to be removed.
Such petition shall be secured from the city clerk and a declaration filed by
those circulating said petition of the officer or officers against whom recall
is sought and no one petition shall be effective against more than one (1)
officer of the city. At the top of each page of said petition(s) there shall be
a short statement of the reasons for which recall is being sought. The petition
must be returned to the city clerk within thirty (30) days, Sundays and legal
holidays excepted, of its initiation in order to be certified as valid. Failure
to return the petition(s) within the proper time limits shall render them null
and void.
Upon receipt of the petition(s), the city clerk shall inspect said petition(s)
to see that all the signatures are valid and that they are those of registered
voters eligible to vote for the office from which the officer's removal is
sought. Such inspection by the city clerk shall be completed in not more than
thirty (30) days. The city clerk shall certify the petition(s) once the
required number of signatures are verified. (amd. Res. 2018-04, 3-13-2018)
Section 10-3 Recall Ballot.
The form of ballot at such special election shall be as follows:
Recall Of Elective Officers
Shall (name of officer) be removed from office of (name of office)?
[ ] YES
[ ] NO
The voter who desires to vote for the removal of the officer shall stamp in the
square to the left of the word "YES". The voter who desires to vote for the
retention in office of the officer shall stamp in the square to the left of the
word "NO".
If a majority of the duly qualified electors voting at such election shall vote
"YES", the officer shall be deemed removed and his office vacated. If a
majority of such electors shall vote "NO", such officer shall continue to serve
as such.
Section 10-4 Recall Election.
Such special election shall in all respects be conducted, returned, and the
result thereof declared as provided by the constitution and laws of the state
of Oklahoma in force at the time of such election.
Section 10-5 Recall Time Limitations.
No recall petition shall be filed against any officer until he shall have held
his office for at least four (4) months; nor within six (6) months after an
election has been held upon a previous petition for recall of the same officer.
Section 10-6 Persons Recalled Or Resigning.
No person who has been recalled from an office, or who has resigned from such
office while recall proceedings were pending against him, shall be appointed to
an office or employment of the city within one year after such recall or
resignation.
Section 10-7 Amendments, Regulations.
The city council may by ordinance make such further regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this article. The method of removal by
recall is cumulative and not exclusive.
ARTICLE XI
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES GENERALLY
Section 11-1 Appointments, Removals.
Appointments and promotions in the service of the city shall be made solely on
the basis of merit and fitness; layoffs, suspensions, demotions and removals
shall be made solely for the good of the service. At least all full time
regular (that is, nontemporary) officers and employees subordinate to the city
manager, except members and secretaries of boards and other plural authorities,
shall be in the classified service. The mayor or council, by ordinance and/or
personnel rules, shall have power further to define the classified service and
otherwise to regulate personnel matters.
Section 11-2 Qualifications Of Officers And Employees.
Officers and employees of the city shall have the qualifications prescribed by
this charter and such additional qualifications as the mayor and council may
prescribe; but the mayor and the council shall not prescribe additional
qualifications for mayor or councilmen.
Section 11-3 Holding More Than One Office.
Except as may be otherwise provided by this charter or by ordinance, the same
person may hold more than one office in the city government. The city manager
may hold more than one such office, through appointment by himself, by the
mayor and council, or by other city authority having power to fill the
particular office, subject to any regulations which the mayor and council may
make by ordinance; but he may not receive compensation for service in such
other offices. Also, the mayor and council by ordinance may provide that the
city manager shall hold ex officio designated offices subordinate to the city
manager as well as other designated compatible city offices, notwithstanding
any other provision of this charter.
Section 11-4 Official Bonds.
The city manager, the city clerk, the city treasurer and such other officers
and employees as the mayor and council may designate, before entering upon
their duties, shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of their
respective duties, payable to the city, in such form and in such amounts as the
mayor and council may prescribe, with a surety company authorized to operate
within the state. The city shall pay the premiums of such bonds.
Section 11-5 Oath Or Affirmation Of Office.
Every officer of the city, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall
take and subscribe to the oath or affirmation of office as follows:
"I,                      do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully
execute the office of                      and will to the best of my ability
preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, the
Constitution of the State of Oklahoma, and the Charter of the City of Seminole,
Oklahoma."
The oath or affirmation shall be filed in the city clerk's office.
Section 11-6 Who May Administer Oaths And Affirmations.
All officers authorized by federal or state law, the mayor, the city manager,
the city clerk, the city attorney, the municipal judge, and such other officers
as the mayor and council may authorize, may administer oaths and affirmations
in any matter pertaining to the affairs and government of the city.
Section 11-7 Acting Officers And Employees.
The appointing authority who may appoint the successor of an officer or
employee may appoint a person to act during the temporary absence, leave,
disability, or suspension of such officer or employee, or, in case of a
vacancy, until a successor is appointed and qualifies, unless the council
provides by general ordinance that a particular superior or subordinate of such
office or employee shall act. The council shall by general ordinance provide
for a deputy to act in such cases. Also an acting municipal judge may be
appointed to serve in any case or proceeding for which the municipal judge is
disqualified.
Section 11-8 Officers To Continue Until Successors Are Elected Or Appointed And
Qualify.
Every officer who is elected or appointed for a term ending at a definite time
shall continue to serve thereafter until his successor is elected or appointed
and qualifies unless his services are sooner terminated by resignation,
removal, disqualification, death, abolition of the office or other legal
manner.
ARTICLE XII
GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 12-1 Feminine Gender.
When the masculine gender is used in this charter, it shall also mean the
feminine unless the masculine alone is clearly indicated.
Section 12-2 Initiative And Referendum.
The powers of the initiative and referendum are reserved to the people of the
city; in the exercise of these powers, the requirements of the state
constitution and law shall be observed.
Section 12-3 Publicity Of Records.
All records and accounts of every office, department, or agency of the city
government except records and documents, the disclosure of which would tend to
defeat the lawful purpose which they are intended to accomplish, shall be open
to public inspection.
ARTICLE XIII
AMENDMENT AND SEPARABILITY OF CHARTER
Section 13-1 Amendment Proposal, Ratification, Approval.
This charter may be amended by proposals therefor submitted by the council, or
by the mayor upon initiative petition of the electors as provided by the state
constitution, at a general or special election, ratified by a majority of the
qualified electors voting thereon, and approved by the governor as provided by
the state constitution. If more than one amendment is proposed, all of them
except those which are so interrelated that they should be ratified or rejected
together, shall be submitted in such manner that the electors may vote on them
separately. A proposition that amends this charter may be either in the form of
a proposed amendment to a part or parts of the charter or of a proposed new
charter.
Section 13-2 Separability.
If a court of competent jurisdiction shall hold any section or part of this
charter invalid, such holding shall not affect the remainder of this charter
nor the context in which such section or part so held invalid may appear,
except to the extent that an entire section or part may be inseparably
connected in meaning and effect with the section or part. If a court of
competent jurisdiction holds a part of this charter invalid, or if a change in
the state constitution or law renders a part of this charter invalid or
inapplicable, the council by ordinance may take such appropriate action as will
enable the city government to function properly.
ARTICLE XIV
SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT
Section 14-1 Inauguration Of Government Under This Charter.
If a majority of the qualified electors of the city voting on the question vote
to ratify this charter, it shall go into full effect and the government
provided by it shall be inaugurated on the first day of the month next
succeeding the month in which it is approved by the governor of the state of
Oklahoma.
Section 14-2 Mayor And Councilmen To Continue In Office.
The mayor and all councilmen shall continue in office under the provisions of
this charter until their present term expires or their removal as provided by
this charter.
Section 14-3 Chief Of Police, City Clerk, City Treasurer; Terms Expire.
Upon the date this charter takes effect, the elected terms of the chief of
police, the city clerk and the city treasurer shall expire. Upon that date each
of these officers shall assume their former duties as the appointed official to
their respective office, to serve until their removal as provided by this
charter.
Section 14-4 Boards, Departments And Commissions Continued.
All of the boards, departments and commissions in existence under the old form
of government shall continue in force and those persons serving on said boards,
departments and commissions shall continue to hold their respective offices;
provided, that insofar as is consistent with this charter and state statute,
the power, duties and responsibilities of each such board, department or
commission shall be determined by the mayor and council.
Section 14-5 Ordinances Continued.
The city ordinances code of this city and all ordinances of the city shall
continue in effect, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this charter,
until they are repealed or until they expire of their own limitations.
Section 14-6 Officers And Employees Continued.
All appointive officers and employees of the municipality under the old form of
government who hold offices and positions which continue under this charter,
shall continue in the offices and employment which they respectively hold after
this charter goes into effect, until their respective terms expire or until
their services are terminated in accordance with the provisions of this charter
and ordinances relating to the creation, change and abolition of officers and
removal of officers and employees.
Section 14-7 Pending Actions And Proceedings.
The adoption of this charter shall not abate or otherwise affect any action or
proceeding, civil or criminal, pending when it takes effect, brought by or
against the municipality or any office, department, agency or officer thereof.
Section 14-8 Charter Review Commencing 2000.
This charter shall be reviewed by a committee appointed by the mayor of
Seminole, Oklahoma, no less frequently than once every five (5) years. The
review shall be for the purpose of considering the need for changes and/or
amendments to the existing city charter.
CERTIFICATE OF FREEHOLDERS
State of Oklahoma   )
Seminole County   ) ss
City of Seminole   )
BE IT KNOWN, that the City of Seminole, County of Seminole, State of Oklahoma,
containing a population of more than two thousand (2,000) inhabitants, at an
election held on the eleventh (11th) day of September 1970, under the
provisions of Section 3 (1) of Article XVIII of the Constitution of the State
of Oklahoma, did, pursuant to law, elect a Board of Freeholders, two (2) being
selected from each of the four (4) Wards of said City to prepare, suggest, and
propose a Charter for said City to be executed in duplicate and filed within
ninety (90) days from the date of said election, one copy of which is to be
filed with the Chief Executive Officer of said City and the other to be filed
with the County Clerk (Register of Deeds of said County).
The undersigned members of said Board of Freeholders do hereby certify that in
pursuance of the Constitution and Laws of the State of Oklahoma, we did meet
and organize and in perfecting said organization did elect John Marshall to act
and preside as Chairman of said Board, and did at the same time elect W.C.
Wantland to act as Secretary of said Board, and from time to time have held
meetings and have proposed, formulated and filed a proposed Charter within
ninety (90) days from the date of our election consisting of the various
articles and sections embraced and contained all thereof within and upon the
foregoing and preceding twenty-three (23) pages, as the Charter for adoption by
the qualified electors of said city of Seminole do hereby propose the
foregoing, consisting of twenty-three (23) pages, as the Charter of the City of
Seminole, which we and each of us, do hereby sign in duplicate as and for the
Charter of said City of Seminole.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, We have hereunto set our hands in duplicate this the
twenty-sixth (26th) day of September, 1970.
   Ward One:   Ward Three:
   Carl Koger   John Marshall
   Earl Austin   Bob Sullivan
   Ward Two:   Ward Four:
   W.C. Wantland   Dr. H.F. Simpson
   Leon Davis   Cecil Dollar
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 25th day of September, 1970.
      /s/ Lavon Schulze
       Notary Public
My Commission Expires:
3/25/73
   CERTIFICATE OF CITY COUNCIL
The undersigned members of the City Council of the City of Seminole, County of
Seminole, State of Oklahoma do hereby certify that the above Charter was
Amended by a vote of the qualified voters on March 14, 2000.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we hereunto set our hands this 14th day of March, 2000.
   Ward One:
   Evelyn Hammond-Willingham    /s/
   Chris Hammon, Jr.   /s/
   Ward Two:
   Darren Frederick   /s/
   Bill Benn   /s/
   Ward Three:
   Matt Riffle   /s/
   Kenny Pryor   /s/
   Ward Four:
   Mike McCreight   /s/
   David Zehren   /s/
   Mayor, Vicki Spears   /s/
   City Attorney, Ed Cadenhead   /s/
ATTEST:
   /s/ Diane Johnson, City Clerk
   Subscribed and sworn to before me this 14th day of March, 2000.
   /s/ Belinda Adams, Notary Public
   My Commission Expires:
   5/28/01
TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
USE AND CONSTRUCTION OF CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: How Code Designated And Cited
1-1-2: Rules Of Construction; Definitions
1-1-3: Catchlines Of Sections; Citations
1-1-4: Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
1-1-5: Severability Of Parts Of Code
1-1-6: Amendments To Code; Effect Of New Ordinances
1-1-7: Altering Code
1-1-8: General Penalty
1-1-9: Second And Subsequent Offenses
1-1-10: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
1-1-11: Construction
1-1-12: Right Of Entry To Inspect And Enforce Ordinances
1-1-1: HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED 1 :
   The provisions embraced in the chapters, articles and sections of this code
shall constitute and be designated the CITY CODE OF SEMINOLE OKLAHOMA, and may
be so cited. (2000 Code § 1-101; amd. Ord. 1063, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 5-5 for codification of ordinances.
1-1-2: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS:
   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the following rules
are observed unless the construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the council:
   CITIZEN: A person who resides in Seminole County, does not reside within the
limits of any city or town except the city of Seminole, and is eligible to vote
in state and local elections.
   CITY OR THIS CITY: The city of Seminole, Oklahoma, or the area within the
territorial limits of the city of Seminole, and such territory outside of the
city over which the city has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any law or
constitutional provision.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act is
to be done, the time period in which the act or notice is required shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If the last day
is Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Seminole.
   COUNTY OR THIS COUNTY: The county of Seminole, Oklahoma.
   GENDER: A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to
other genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
   JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving "joint authority" to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   LAW: Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the constitution and
statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the city, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   MANAGER OR CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city.
   MAY: Is permissive.
   MAYOR: The mayor of the city.
   MONTH: A calendar month.
   NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS: Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   NUMBER: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied
to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words used in
the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary intention
plainly appears.
   OATH: Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and
"affirmed".
   OR, AND: "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
   OTHER OFFICIALS OR OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made to officers,
agencies or departments by title only, i.e., "clerk", "city clerk", "city
attorney", "fire chief", "chief of police", etc., they shall mean the officers,
agencies or departments of the city.
   PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to a natural person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, trusts, and bodies politic
and corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
   RESIDENT: A person whose actual dwelling or primary residence is located
within the corporate limits of the city of Seminole and who is eligible to vote
in state and local elections.
   SHALL AND MUST: Are mandatory.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE OR THIS STATE: Shall be construed to mean the state of Oklahoma.
   STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to statutes of the state of Oklahoma as
they now are or as they may be amended to be.
   STREET: Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other
public ways in the city which are or are hereafter dedicated and open to public
use, or such other public property so designated in any law of this state.
   TENSE: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   WEEK: Seven (7) days.
   WORDS AND PHRASES NOT DEFINED: Words and phrases not specifically defined
shall be construed according to the context and approved usage of the language.
   WRITTEN: Includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed or multigraphed.
   YEAR: A calendar year. (Ord. 981, 1-11-2005)
1-1-3: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; CITATIONS:
   The catchlines of sections in this code are printed in capital letters and
citations included at the end of sections are intended to indicate the contents
of the section and original historical source respectively, and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles and official sources of such sections; nor as any
part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, or citations, are amended
or reenacted. (2000 Code § 1-103)
1-1-4: EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES:
   A.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   B.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance
repealed. (2000 Code § 1-104)
1-1-5: SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE:
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are severable, and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this code or of any
ordinance in the code shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise
invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction,
such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code. (2000 Code §
1-105)
1-1-6: AMENDMENTS TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES 1 :
   A.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code or ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion therein. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion
thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from
reprinted pages.
   B.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language: "Be it ordained by the City Council of
the City of Seminole, Oklahoma, that Section            of the code of
ordinances of the City of Seminole, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as
follows:". (Set out new provisions in full.)
   C. When the council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent
nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which the council
desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the following
language may be made part of the ordinance:
Section            Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Seminole,
Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part
of the code of ordinances of the City of Seminole, Oklahoma, and the sections
of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish this intention.
   D.   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to
be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the
case may be. (2000 Code § 1-106)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter sections 5-1 through 5-3.
1-1-7: ALTERING CODE:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this chapter. (2000
Code § 1-107)
1-1-8: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in
this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code
or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction,
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) or not more than thirty (30) days' imprisonment, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. In addition, the court may impose a term of community service
not to exceed forty (40) hours for each offense. The maximum fine or deferral
fee in lieu of a fine for traffic related offenses relating to speeding or
parking shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00). Each day or any portion
of a day during which any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Aiding Or Abetting: Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the
violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in this section. (Ord. 1038, 9-12-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. Maximum fines chargeable by courts not of record, $750.00, 11 OS § 14-111;
  fines over $500.00 are to be by jury trial unless waived, 11 OS § 27-119.
1-1-9: SECOND AND SUBSEQUENT OFFENSES:
Every person who is convicted of any offense punishable as provided in section
1-1-8 of this chapter and who commits the same offense a second time and is
subsequently convicted of the second offense, the punishment for the second or
subsequent offense shall be a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) or not more than sixty (60) days' imprisonment, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. In addition, the court may impose a term of community service
not to exceed eighty (80) hours per each subsequent offense. (Ord. 1038, 9-12-
2006)
1-1-10: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION:
All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law. (2000 Code § 1-
110)
1-1-11: CONSTRUCTION:
The provisions of this code and all proceedings under it are to be construed
with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice. (2000 Code § 1-111)
1-1-12: RIGHT OF ENTRY TO INSPECT AND ENFORCE ORDINANCES:
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any ordinance or
resolution, or whenever there is reasonable cause to believe there exists an
ordinance or resolution violation in any building or upon any premises within
the jurisdiction of the city, any authorized official of the city may, upon
presentation of proper credentials, enter such building, perform any duty
imposed upon him by ordinance; provided, that except in emergency situations or
when consent of the owner or occupant to the inspection has not been otherwise
obtained, he shall give the owner or occupant, by posting on the premises
twenty four (24) hours' written notice of the authorized official's intention
to inspect. The notice transmitted to the owner or occupant shall state that
the property owner has the right to refuse entry and that in the event such
entry is refused, or in emergency situations, inspection may be made only upon
issuance of a search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event the
owner or occupant refuses entry after such request has been made, the official
is empowered to seek assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in
obtaining such entry. (2000 Code § 1-112)
CHAPTER 2
CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
   SECTION:
1-2-1: Map Of City Designated As Official Map
1-2-2: Ward Number And Boundaries
1-2-1: MAP OF CITY DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP:
   The map of the City showing its territorial limits, identified by the
approving signatures of the Mayor and Council, marked and designated as "zoning
map" is hereby designated as the official map of the City. The corporate limits
as shown thereon are declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of
the City; however, the map shall be subject to change from time to time as may
be determined by the Council. The map is on file in the Office of the City
Clerk. (2000 Code § 1-201)
1-2-2: WARD NUMBER AND BOUNDARIES:
   The City is hereby divided into wards as follows:
   Ward Number One: All that part of the city hereinafter described as those
lands within the corporate limits of Seminole east of Harvey Road; and those
lands lying south of Strother Avenue between Harvey Road and Jefferson Street,
and east of Jefferson Street between Strother Avenue and Broadway and south of
Broadway between Jefferson Street and Jackson Street and east of a line
extending south from the south end of Jackson Street along the center of the
WPA drainage canal to the city limits.
(2000 Code § 1-202)
   Ward Number Two: All that part of the city hereinafter described as those
lands within the corporate city limits of Seminole lying west of Ideal Street
between Good Hope Road and State Highway 9 and lying north of State Highway 9
between Ideal Street and County Road NS 353, lying south of State Highway 9 and
approximately one-quarter mile west of County Road NS 354, a tract one half
mile wide to the west along State Highway 9 and one quarter mile deep to the
south, excluding the southeast corner lot, lying south and west of Boren
Boulevard between State Highway 9 and Strother Avenue and lands south of
Strother Avenue between Boren Boulevard and Jefferson and west of a line
extending south from the south end of Jackson along the center of the WPA
drainage canal to the city limits.
   Ward Number Three: All that part of the city hereinafter described as those
lands within the corporate city limits of Seminole lying west of Jefferson
Street between Strother Avenue and Van Drive, south of Van Drive between
Jefferson Street and Coolidge Street, west of Coolidge Street between Van Drive
and State Highway 9, south of State Highway 9 between Coolidge Street and Boren
Boulevard, north and east of Boren Boulevard between State Highway 9 and
Strother Avenue and north of Strother Avenue between Boren Boulevard and
Jefferson Street.
(Ord. 1213, 4-10-2018)
   Ward Number Four: All that part of the city hereinafter described as those
lands within the corporate city limits of Seminole lying west of Harvey Road
between Good Hope Road and Strother Avenue, north of Strother Avenue between
Harvey Road and Jefferson Street, east of Jefferson Street between Strother
Avenue and Van Drive, north of Van Drive between Jefferson Street and Coolidge
Street, east of Jefferson Street and Coolidge Street, east of Coolidge Street
between Van Drive and State Highway 9, north of State Highway 9 between
Coolidge Street and Ideal Street, and east of Ideal Street between State
Highway 9 and the north city limits.
(2000 Code § 1-202)
TITLE 2
ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
CHAPTER 1
GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Form Of Government; Elected Officers
2-1-2: Absentee Balloting In Municipal Elections
2-1-1: FORM OF GOVERNMENT; ELECTED OFFICERS 1 :
   The city is governed by a council-manager form of government as provided in
the city's home rule charter. The elected officers of the city include a mayor,
elected at large, and two (2) councilmen from each of the city's four (4)
wards. (2000 Code § 2-101)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 1-2.
2-1-2: ABSENTEE BALLOTING IN MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS:
   Absentee balloting is hereby authorized for all municipal elections held in
and for the city. The procedures for absentee balloting shall be established by
and conducted by the county election board and conform to the laws of the state
and to the charter of the city. (2000 Code § 2-102)
CHAPTER 2
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-2-1: Meetings; Quorum
2-2-2: Council President
2-2-3: Resignation Of Members
2-2-4: Absence Of Members
2-2-5: Vacancy
2-2-6: Transaction Of Business
2-2-7: Power Concerning City Officers And Personnel
2-2-8: Compensation
2-2-1: MEETINGS; QUORUM 1 :
   A.   Meetings: Regular meetings of the council shall be held in the Goldie
Barnett conference room at the Seminole public library on the second Tuesday of
each month following the regular meeting of the Seminole utilities authority.
Special meetings may be called by the mayor or by the acting mayor, upon
request or notice, in writing, signed by at least three (3) members of the
council, specifying the object and purpose of the meeting which shall be read
at the meeting and entered at length in the journal. No business shall be
transacted at the meeting except that specified in the request.
   B.   Quorum: In all cases, it shall require a majority of the council
members elected to constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may
adjourn from day to day, and may compel the attendance of absent members, in
such manner and under such penalties as the council may have previously
prescribed. (2000 Code § 2-201)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 4-1.
2-2-2: COUNCIL PRESIDENT 2 :
   The council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled the
president of the council, and who shall preside at all meetings of the council
in the absence of the mayor. In the absence of the president, the council shall
elect one of its own body to occupy the place temporarily, who shall be styled
acting president of the council. The president and acting president, when
occupying the place of mayor shall have the same privileges as other members of
the council, and all acts of the president or acting president, while so
acting, shall be as binding upon the council and upon the city as if done by
the mayor. (2000 Code § 2-202)
 
Notes
2 2. See charter section 4-2.
2-2-3: RESIGNATION OF MEMBERS 1 :
   The resignation of any member of the council shall be addressed in writing
to the presiding officer of the council, and shall not take effect until
accepted by a majority vote of the members present. (2000 Code § 2-203)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 4-3.
2-2-4: ABSENCE OF MEMBERS 2 :
   If the mayor or any councilman shall be absent, without excuse, from more
than one-half (1/2) of all the meetings of the council, regular and special,
held within any period of four (4) consecutive calendar months, he shall
thereupon cease to hold office. (2000 Code § 2-204)
 
Notes
2 2. See charter section 4-8.
2-2-5: VACANCY 3 :
   In case of a vacancy, the mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the
council, a person residing in the ward in which the vacancy occurs, who shall
hold office for the unexpired term. (2000 Code § 2-205)
 
Notes
3 3. See charter section 4-4.
2-2-6: TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Council meetings shall be conducted according to "Robert's Rules Of
Order", and the order of business shall be substantially as follows:
      1.   Roll call;
      2.   Reading of journal;
      3.   Claims;
      4.   Petitions and communications;
      5.   Reports of city officers;
      6.   Reports of standing committees;
      7.   Reports of special committees;
      8.   Ordinances and regulations;
      9.   Unfinished business; and
      10.   Adjournment. (2000 Code § 2-206; amd. Ord. 1064, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-
7-2008)
2-2-7: POWER CONCERNING CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL 1 :
   The mayor and council shall have the power by order of resolution properly
entered upon the journal by the clerk to consolidate any offices or employment,
to transfer powers and duties from one office to that of another, to create new
offices or employment, to abolish and to do away with any office or employment
in the interest of economy and efficiency in the administration of the affairs
of the city. All officers and employees of the city are charged with notice of
the provisions of this section and their acceptance of the office or employment
shall, at the time of acceptance and at all times thereafter, be subject to the
exercise of this power at the will of the mayor and council. (2000 Code § 2-
207)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 4-5.
2-2-8: COMPENSATION 2 :
   The council members, who are elected or appointed, shall receive as
compensation such sums as provided by ordinance of the mayor and the city
council and included in the annual appropriations. (2000 Code § 2-208)
 
Notes
2 2. See charter section 2-2.
CHAPTER 3
MAYOR
SECTION:
2-3-1: Presiding Officer
2-3-2: Commission Signing; Bond Approval
2-3-3: Warrant Signing
2-3-4: Veto Power
2-3-5: Reports
2-3-6: Enforcement; Emergency Powers
2-3-7: Call Upon Citizens For Aid
2-3-8: Remit Fines
2-3-9: Vacancy Filling
2-3-10: Power Of Appointment
2-3-11: Compensation
2-3-1: PRESIDING OFFICER 1 :
   The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the council and shall have a
casting vote when the council is equally divided, and shall take care that the
provisions of this code are complied with. (2000 Code § 2-301)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 3-1.
2-3-2: COMMISSION SIGNING; BOND APPROVAL 2 :
   The mayor shall sign the commissions and appointments of all officers
elected or appointed and endorse the approval of all official bonds approved by
the mayor and council. (2000 Code § 2-302)
 
Notes
2 2. See charter section 3-2.
2-3-3: WARRANT SIGNING 3 :
   The mayor or his authorized designee shall sign all orders and warrants
drawn upon the treasurer for money. (2000 Code § 2-303; amd. Ord. 1064, 1-8-
2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
 
Notes
3 3. See charter section 3-3.
2-3-4: VETO POWER 4 :
   The mayor shall have the power to sign or veto any city ordinance passed by
the council; provided, that any ordinance vetoed by the mayor may be passed
over his veto by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the members of the council,
notwithstanding the veto. Should the mayor neglect or refuse to sign any
ordinance or return the same with his objections in writing at the next meeting
of the council, the same shall become law without his signature. (2000 Code §
2-304)
 
Notes
4 4. See charter section 3-4.
2-3-5: REPORTS:
   The mayor shall, when he deems it necessary, require any officer of the city
to exhibit his accounts, or other official papers, and to make a report to the
council in writing, touching any subject matter pertaining to his office, and
if any officer, upon such accounting, is found a defaulter, he shall be removed
by the mayor and city council. (2000 Code § 2-305)
2-3-6: ENFORCEMENT; EMERGENCY POWERS:
   A.   The mayor shall be active and vigilant in enforcing all of the
provisions of the charter and code of ordinances. He shall have such
jurisdiction as may be vested in him by the provisions of this code over all
places within five (5) miles of the city limits for the enforcement of any
health, quarantine, cemetery or waterworks regulations.
   B.   Upon a declaration of an emergency by federal or state authorities, or,
when, in the judgment of the mayor, certain conditions exist that threaten the
public health, safety and welfare, then the mayor may issue a proclamation of
civil emergency and provide as much public notice of said proclamation as
practical.
      For purposes of this section, conditions that threaten the public,
health, safety and welfare, may include, but is not limited to:
      1.   A natural disaster or man-made catastrophe (including flood, fire,
tornado, or explosion) which results in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property;
      2.   An epidemic, pandemic, or other health hazard characterized by the
threat of, or transmission of sickness or disease;
      3.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the threat of, or use
of actual force or violence to do harm to persons or property, if accompanied
by the means to initiate said unlawful acts by three (3) or more persons acting
together without authority.
      4.   Any other circumstance that exists to such an extent that
extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
   C.   Upon the proclamation of a civil emergency the mayor may impose any
action or restriction, including, but not limited to, a general curfew for
those geographical areas of the city affected or potentially affected by the
civil emergency during such hours of the day or night as the mayor may deem
necessary to preserve the public peace, safety, and welfare. In the interest of
public safety and welfare, the mayor may also make any other lawful orders as
the mayor reasonably believes to help preserve and maintain life, safety,
health, property or the public peace. (2000 Code § 2-306; amd. Ord. 1243, 3-20-
2020, eff. 3-20-2020)
2-3-7: CALL UPON CITIZENS FOR AID 1 :
   The mayor is authorized to call upon every inhabitant in the city to aid in
enforcing the laws. (2000 Code § 2-307)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 3-5.
2-3-8: REMIT FINES:
   The mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures and to grant
reprieves and pardons for offenses arising under the provisions of this code,
by and with the consent of the council; but no fine or forfeiture shall be
remitted or pardon granted, except at a session of the council, nor unless the
reasons therefor, together with the order of remission or pardon, are entered
on the journal by the clerk. He shall also have the power to suspend all city
officers against whom charges of incompetency or dereliction of duty are
preferred, until the mayor and councilmen take action on the same. (2000 Code §
2-308)
2-3-9: VACANCY FILLING 2 :
   When any vacancy happens in the office of mayor, the president of the
council, for the time being, shall exercise the duties of the office of mayor,
until the vacancy is filled. In case of a vacancy in the office of mayor more
than six (6) calendar months prior to the next election, the person acting as
mayor shall cause an election to be held, giving ten (10) days' notice thereof
by proclamation. (2000 Code § 2-309)
 
Notes
2 2. See charter section 3-6.
2-3-10: POWER OF APPOINTMENT 1 :
   The mayor shall appoint, by and with the consent of the council, all
officers and board and commission members whose appointments are not otherwise
provided for by the charter or by ordinance or law. Whenever a vacancy happens
in any office which by law he is empowered to fill, he shall, within thirty
(30) days after the happening of such vacancy, communicate to the council the
name of his appointee to the office, and pending the concurrence of the council
in such appointment, the mayor may appoint some suitable person to discharge
the duties of office until the next meeting of the council. The officers so
appointed shall hold their offices until their successors are chosen and
qualified unless sooner removed. (2000 Code § 2-310)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 3-7.
2-3-11: COMPENSATION 2 :
   The mayor shall receive for his services such sums as provided by ordinances
of the mayor and city council and included in the annual appropriations. (2000
Code § 2-311)
 
Notes
2 2. See charter section 2-2.
CHAPTER 4
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
2-4-1: Appointment
2-4-2: Powers And Duties
2-4-3: Removal Of Manager
2-4-1: APPOINTMENT 1 :
   The city manager shall be nominated by the mayor for an indefinite term and
shall be elected by a vote of at least six (6) members of the city council. The
manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of his executive and administrative
qualifications. (2000 Code § 2-401)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 6-1.
2-4-2: POWERS AND DUTIES 2 :
   The city manager shall be chief administrative officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. He shall be responsible to the
mayor and council for the execution of laws and ordinances and administration
of the government of the city. He shall have such powers and duties as are
provided by charter, law or applicable ordinance or resolution. (2000 Code § 2-
402)
 
Notes
2 2. See charter section 6-2.
2-4-3: REMOVAL OF MANAGER 3 :
   The council may suspend or remove the city manager at any time by a vote of
a majority of all its members. The mayor shall give the city manager a written
statement of the reason for removal at least fourteen (14) days before removal
becomes final, and on request shall give him an opportunity for a public
hearing thereon after the expiration of such time before removing him. (2000
Code § 2-403)
 
Notes
3 3. See charter section 6-1.
CHAPTER 5
CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
2-5-1: Appointment
2-5-2: Duties
2-5-3: Ordinance Drawing
2-5-4: Prosecution Of Complaints
2-5-5: Records; Reports
2-5-6: Compensation
2-5-1: APPOINTMENT:
   There is created the office of attorney, who shall be appointed by the mayor
with the consent of the council. He shall be of good moral character and
licensed to practice law by the state. (2000 Code § 2-501)
2-5-2: DUTIES:
   It is the duty of the attorney to advise the council and all city officers
in the performance of their duties. He shall appear, prosecute and defend in
courts of record all actions wherein the city is a party. He shall be allowed
his actual and necessary traveling and hotel expense while outside the city on
business for the city, upon direction of the council, and this expense shall be
in addition to his regular retainer as fixed by the council. He shall perform
such other professional services as may be required of him by the council.
(2000 Code § 2-502)
2-5-3: ORDINANCE DRAWING:
   The attorney shall draw such ordinances as may be required of him by the
council or by any committee thereof. He shall draw the leases, deeds and papers
connected with the finance department and all contracts for any of the other
departments of the city when so required by the council. (2000 Code § 2-503)
2-5-4: PROSECUTION OF COMPLAINTS:
   When requested to do so by the mayor, judge or chief of police, the attorney
shall appear in police court and prosecute complaints for offenses against the
provisions of this code or other laws of the city, but he shall not be required
to prosecute such actions unless the same are instituted upon complaint of some
city officer. (2000 Code § 2-504)
2-5-5: RECORDS; REPORTS:
   Upon request of the council, the attorney shall report to it the status of
any litigation in which the city is a party with such detailed explanation as
they may request, and the status of any and all other matters of city business
pending in the office of the attorney. (2000 Code § 2-505)
2-5-6: COMPENSATION:
   The attorney shall draw a retainer to be set by the mayor and council, to
cover the usual and routine advice, correspondence and regular services
rendered. Additional compensation may be authorized by the mayor and council
for appearances in courts of record, handling bond issues, and any other
unusual services, at the discretion of the mayor and council. (2000 Code § 2-
506)
CHAPTER 6
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
2-6-1: Office Requirements
2-6-2: Custody Of City Books And Papers
2-6-3: Duties
2-6-4: Custody Of Records
2-6-5: Preparation Of Commissions
2-6-6: Deliver Communications
2-6-7: Certified Copies
2-6-8: Filing Responsibility
2-6-9: Custodian Of City Seal
2-6-10: Monthly Reports
2-6-1: OFFICE REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   The city clerk shall be appointed by the mayor and city council for an
indefinite term. The clerk shall keep his office in the municipal building or
as may be otherwise provided. He shall keep his office open every day, Monday
through Friday, from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. until five o'clock (5:00) P.M.,
legal holidays excepted. He shall, in addition to the duties imposed by general
law, perform such duties as may be imposed upon him by this code, the council
or city manager. (2000 Code § 2-601; amd. Ord. 1064, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 7-1.
2-6-2: CUSTODY OF CITY BOOKS AND PAPERS:
   The clerk shall, after being duly qualified and sworn, take possession of
all books, papers and all other property of the nature of records belonging to
the city and to his office, and shall keep the same in a safe and convenient
place, subject to the inspection of any citizen within office hours. (2000 Code
§ 2-602)
2-6-3: DUTIES 2 :
   The clerk shall attend the meetings of the council, shall keep a correct and
complete record of the meetings of the council, together with all claims
against the city filed in his office. When claims have been duly allowed by the
council, he shall draw warrants on the treasurer for same. (2000 Code § 2-603;
amd. Ord. 1064, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
 
Notes
2 2. See charter sections 4-7 and 7-1.
2-6-4: CUSTODY OF RECORDS:
   The clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of the
city, kept and preserved in his office, to be taken therefrom except by such
persons as may be entitled to the use of the same, and then only upon their
leaving a receipt therefor. (2000 Code § 2-604)
2-6-5: PREPARATION OF COMMISSIONS:
   The clerk shall prepare all commissions of officers which the mayor is
required to sign, and countersign the same, and affix the seal of the city
thereto. He shall keep a complete record of all commissions issued, and of the
official oaths and bonds of the city officers. (2000 Code § 2-605)
2-6-6: DELIVER COMMUNICATIONS:
   The clerk shall, without unnecessary delay, deliver to the officers of the
city, and to all committees of the council, all resolutions and communications
referred to those officers or committees by that body. He shall also, in the
same manner, deliver to the mayor all ordinances or resolutions which may
require the mayor's approval or other action to be taken by him. (2000 Code §
2-606)
2-6-7: CERTIFIED COPIES:
   The clerk shall furnish certified copies of all ordinances hereafter passed
by the council, and shall preserve the original in his office. He shall be
obliged to furnish written copies of ordinances or other papers for the use of
any city officer without charge, attest any copy of paper or document of record
presented by him, and affix the seal of the city thereto. (2000 Code § 2-607)
2-6-8: FILING RESPONSIBILITY:
   The clerk shall endorse the date of filing, together with an abstract of its
contents upon every paper or document filed in his office. All books and
records kept by him shall be fully and properly indexed. (2000 Code § 2-608)
2-6-9: CUSTODIAN OF CITY SEAL:
   The clerk shall be the custodian of the city seal and shall affix the same
to all documents requiring the same. (2000 Code § 2-609)
2-6-10: MONTHLY REPORTS:
   The clerk shall make monthly reports to the mayor and council at the first
regular monthly meeting and at such other times as the mayor and council may
require, giving in detail a statement of all receipts and disbursements of
money belonging to the city. (2000 Code § 2-610)
CHAPTER 7
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
2-7-1: Office Duties
2-7-2: Accounts Responsibility
2-7-3: Reports Required
2-7-4: Monthly Records Submittal
2-7-1: OFFICE DUTIES 1 :
   The treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor and city council for an
indefinite term. The treasurer shall receive all monies due the city from any
and all sources, except such as are received by other officers by them paid to
the treasurer, and pay out the same on warrant order by the council, drawn,
signed and attested by the clerk with the city seal attached and signed by the
mayor, and not otherwise, except for payment of bonds, interest coupons and
investments. At the expiration of his term of office, he shall deliver to his
successor all monies, books, papers and records connected with his office.
(2000 Code § 2-701; amd. Ord. 1064, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 7-2; see also section 7-2-17 of this code.
2-7-2: ACCOUNTS RESPONSIBILITY:
   The treasurer shall keep the cash accounts of the city in a record to be
kept for that purpose; which record must clearly and fully show all monies
received and disbursed by him in behalf of the city, setting forth the date of
receipt, from whom received, the date of disbursement, to whom disbursed and
the amount of the disbursement, and for what and on what account the same was
received and disbursed. The treasurer shall issue to every person from whom he
receives money a receipt therefor, which shall show the fund to which the money
is to be applied, and the purpose of the collection. One copy of the receipt
shall be retained by the treasurer, and a copy thereof furnished to the clerk.
(2000 Code § 2-702; amd. Ord. 1064, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
2-7-3: REPORTS REQUIRED:
   It is the duty of the treasurer, at the end of each month, to report to the
council, a statement of the financial transactions of his office for the month
ending; which statement shall be in writing, and under his oath and shall set
forth clearly and fully:
   A.   The balance in the treasury at the beginning and at the end of the
month;
   B.   The amount received during the month and on what account received and
to what fund applied;
   C.   The amount disbursed during the month and on what account disbursed and
to what fund charged;
   D.   The amount of warrants redeemed during the month and on what account
drawn;
   E.   The amount of bonds and interest coupons redeemed during the month;
   F.   The amount of warrants and securities purchased by him with the sinking
fund with a list thereof attached;
   G.   The amount that has been credited to the respective funds which are or
may hereafter be provided for by the council; and
   H.   The amount of interest, or money received by him, from any person, bank
or corporation, for the use, control or deposit of the city funds in his
charge, together with the amount of interest earned on warrants purchased with
the sinking fund. (2000 Code § 2-703)
2-7-4: MONTHLY RECORDS SUBMITTAL:
   The treasurer shall, on the last business day of each month, turn over to
the clerk all the canceled indebtedness and vouchers of every nature received
by him during the month, taking the clerk's receipt therefor. This provision
shall be considered inapplicable in the event said offices are consolidated in
the interest of economy and efficiency. (2000 Code § 2-704; amd. Ord. 1064, 1-
8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
CHAPTER 8
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-8A-1: Appointive Officers
2-8A-2: Leave Of Absence
2-8A-3: Oath Required
2-8A-4: Bond
2-8A-5: Delivery To Successor
2-8A-6: Personal Gain Prohibited
2-8A-1: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Generally: The appointive officers of the city shall be a city manager,
a fire chief, a police chief, a city clerk, a city treasurer, a city attorney,
a municipal judge and such other officers as the mayor and council deem
necessary for the efficient operation of the business of the city. The city
manager, city attorney, city clerk, city treasurer and municipal judge shall be
appointed by the mayor and council. All remaining officers and heads of
departments shall be appointed by the city manager. (2000 Code § 2-801; amd.
Ord. 1064, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
   B.   Compensation: Appointive officers shall receive such compensation as
may be set by the mayor and council by motion or by inclusion in the annual
appropriation or budget. (2000 Code § 2-802)
2-8A-2: LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
   Any officer other than the city manager desiring to be temporarily absent
from duty shall comply with those merit rules and regulations adopted by the
mayor and council. (2000 Code § 2-803)
2-8A-3: OATH REQUIRED 1 :
   All officers, elective and appointive, of the city, before entering upon the
duties of their respective offices, shall take and subscribe to the oath or
affirmation of office contained in the city charter. (2000 Code § 2-804)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 11-5.
2-8A-4: BOND 1 :
   The city manager, city clerk, city treasurer and any other officer or
employee of the city so designated by the mayor and council shall be bonded in
an amount approved by the mayor and council. (2000 Code § 2-805)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 11-4.
2-8A-5: DELIVERY TO SUCCESSOR:
   Every officer and employee shall, upon going out of office or when
employment ceases, deliver to his successor all books, papers, furniture,
tools, equipment and other things pertaining to his office or employment. (2000
Code § 2-806)
2-8A-6: PERSONAL GAIN PROHIBITED:
   No officer of the city, nor any deputy, clerk or employee, or any such
officer, nor any servant or agent of the city, shall directly or indirectly,
himself or by another, for his own or another's benefit, deal in the purchase
of city warrants, bonds, contracts or other obligations of the city, or become
personally interested in any contract with the city for his own benefit. (2000
Code § 2-807)
ARTICLE B. PERSONNEL BOARD AND REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
2-8B-1: Short Title; Policy
2-8B-2: Classified And Unclassified Service
2-8B-3: Administrative Authority
2-8B-4: Personnel Board Created; Duties
2-8B-5: Rules Adoption
2-8B-6: Job Classification Plan
2-8B-7: Pay Plan
2-8B-8: Probation Period
2-8B-9: Hours Of Work; Leaves Of Absence
2-8B-10: Separation; Appeal; Hearing
2-8B-11: Records Required
2-8B-12: Investigations; Hearings
2-8B-13: General Prohibitions
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 11-1.
2-8B-1: SHORT TITLE; POLICY:
   This article shall be known as the PERSONNEL ORDINANCE and it is the
declared personnel policy of the city that:
   A.   Employment in the city government shall be based on merit and fitness,
free of personal and political considerations;
   B.   Just and equitable incentives and conditions of employment shall be
established and maintained to promote efficiency and economy in the operation
of the city government;
   C.   Positions having similar duties and responsibilities shall be
classified and compensated on a uniform basis;
   D.   Appointments, promotions and other actions requiring the applications
of the merit principle shall be based on systematic tests and evaluations; and
   E.   Tenure of employees covered by this article shall be subject to good
behavior, the satisfactory performance of work, necessity for the performance
of work, and the availability of funds. (2000 Code § 2-821)
2-8B-2: CLASSIFIED AND UNCLASSIFIED SERVICE:
   A.   Unclassified Service Described: All offices and positions of the city
are divided into the classified service and the unclassified service. The
unclassified service shall include the following:
      1.   All elected officials and members of boards and commissions;
      2.   The city manager, city attorney, municipal judge and civil defense
director;
      3.   Volunteer personnel and personnel appointed to serve without pay;
      4.   Consultants and counsel rendering temporary professional services;
and
      5.   Such positions involving seasonal or part time employment, or which
consist of unskilled work, as may be specifically placed in the unclassified
service by the personnel rules.
   B.   Classified Service Described; Probationary Period:
      1.   The classified service shall include all other positions in the city
service that are not specifically placed in the unclassified service by this
article.
      2.   All persons shall serve a probationary period of six (6) months
before acquiring permanent status, except that sworn police officers and all
members of the fire department shall serve a probationary period of one year
before acquiring permanent status. (2000 Code § 2-822)
   C.   Compensation: The council shall from time to time adopt classification
and pay schedules for the classified service by ordinance or resolution. When,
in the application of the compensation provisions adopted by the city,
including those contained in the personnel manual, the rate of pay of a
supervisor is the same as or less than that of any employee over which he has
been assigned, such rate shall be adjusted by the city manager to the end that
the supervisor shall at all times be paid at least one increment above such
employee supervised. Regular employees shall be compensated at the rate of one
and one-half (11/2) times the regular rate in compensatory time off or in cash
under conditions approved by the city manager for each hour of necessary
overtime worked beyond or in addition to the regularly scheduled workweek. Part
time or temporary employees shall be compensated at the regular rate.
Classified positions above, but not including, grade twelve (12), are not
eligible for overtime payment. When, in the performance of official business,
it is necessary for a regular employee to use personal equipment or supplies,
it shall be the responsibility of the city manager to set a reasonable
compensation rate. The city manager shall also establish the rental charge for
any regular employee residing in city owned property as a condition of his
employment. No salaried employee of the city shall receive as part of his
compensation for employment any free or reduced rate for any service or utility
furnished by the city unless otherwise approved by the city council. (2000 Code
§ 2-822; amd. Ord. 1064, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
D. Application Of Provisions: This article applies only to the classified
service unless otherwise specifically provided. (2000 Code § 2-822)
2-8B-3: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
   The personnel program established by this article shall be administered by
the city manager or a personnel director appointed by him to act on his behalf.
The city manager shall attend all meetings of the personnel board, administer
all the provisions of this article and of the personnel rules and prepare and
recommend revisions and amendments to the personnel rules. (2000 Code § 2-823)
2-8B-4: PERSONNEL BOARD CREATED; DUTIES 1 :
A. Board Established; Membership; Terms: A personnel board shall be established
composed of five (5) members, all of whom must be residents of the city,
appointed by the mayor with the consent of the council. No member of the board
shall be employed by or be an official of the city, nor shall be a member of
any local, state or national committee of a political party or an official or
member of a committee in any partisan political club or organization, nor shall
hold or be a candidate for any elective office. Two (2) members shall serve a
term of one year, two (2) for two (2) years, and one member for three (3)
years. Vacancies occurring during a term shall be filled for the balance of the
term. Members of the board shall serve without compensation, and the board
shall elect its own chairman.
   B.   Duties: In addition to the duties set forth elsewhere in this article,
the board shall:
      1.   Advise the city manager and the city council on matters of personnel
policy and problems of personnel administration, including the development of
personnel rules, a job classification plan and a uniform pay plan;
      2.   Act as an appeal board of disciplinary actions taken under the
provisions of the rules;
      3.   Make an inquiry which it may consider desirable concerning personnel
administration in the city service, and make recommendations to the city
manager or the council with respect thereto; and
      4.   Assist in developing safety standards for each department as
approved by state safety codes for personnel and equipment. (2000 Code § 2-824)
 
Notes
1 1. See charter section 11-1.
2-8B-5: RULES ADOPTION:
   The city manager shall draft such rules as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this article. Following a public hearing conducted by the
personnel board, these rules shall be submitted for adoption by resolution of
the council. The rules shall have the force and effect of law. Amendments to
the rules shall be made in accordance with the above procedure. (2000 Code § 2-
825)
2-8B-6: JOB CLASSIFICATION PLAN:
   The city manager shall make an analysis of the duties and responsibilities
of all positions in the classified service and he shall recommend to the
council a job classification plan. Each position in the classified service
shall be assigned to the end that all positions in the same class shall be
sufficiently alike to permit use of a single descriptive title, the same
qualifications, requirements, the same test of competence, and the same pay
scale. A job class may contain one position or more than one position. (2000
Code § 2-826)
2-8B-7: PAY PLAN:
   The city manager shall prepare a pay plan and rules for its administration.
The rate or range for each class shall be such as to reflect fairly the
differences in duties and responsibilities and shall be related to compensation
for comparable positions in other places of public and private employment. The
city manager shall submit the pay plan and the rules for its administration to
the council for adoption. The council may adopt the plan and the rules, with or
without amendment. All amendments shall apply uniformly to all positions within
the same class. After the pay plan and the rules for its administration have
been adopted by the council, the city manager shall assign each job class to
one of the pay ranges provided in the pay plan. The pay plan may be amended
from time to time as circumstances require, either through adjustment of rates
or by reassignment of job classes to different pay ranges. (2000 Code § 2-827)
2-8B-8: PROBATION PERIOD:
   Employees in the classified service shall be subject to a period of
probation normally lasting six (6) months, except that sworn police officers
and members of the fire department shall be subject to a probation normally
lasting one year. Longer or shorter periods of probation may be provided for
certain positions by the personnel rules, but no probationary period may extend
beyond twelve (12) months. A person who is removed or demoted during the
probationary period because of failure to meet the standards established does
not have the right of review or appeal. An employee shall be retained beyond
the end of the probationary period and granted permanent status only upon the
recommendation of the appointing authority. (2000 Code § 2-828)
2-8B-9: HOURS OF WORK; LEAVES OF ABSENCE:
   Rules shall be adopted prescribing hours of work and the conditions and
length of time for which leaves of absence with pay and leaves of absence
without pay may be granted. These shall cover, among others, vacations, sick
leaves and leaves for military service. (2000 Code § 2-829)
2-8B-10: SEPARATION; APPEAL; HEARING:
   The tenure of every employee shall be conditioned on good behavior and the
satisfactory performance of duties. Any employee may be temporarily separated
by layoff or suspension or permanently separated by resignation or dismissal.
Any officer or employee in the classified service who is laid off, suspended
without pay for more than ten (10) days, demoted or removed after a
probationary period of six (6) months, may appeal to the personnel board. As
soon as practicable after the appeal, the board shall hold a hearing thereon
and shall report in writing its findings, and recommendations, in case of
subordinates of the city manager, to the city manager, and/or other authority
having power of removal shall then make a final decision in writing regarding
the appellant's layoff, suspension, demotion or removal, as the case may be;
provided that, if the board finds that the layoff, suspension, demotion or
removal was made for political reason or for any other reason other than the
good of the service, it shall veto the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal,
and the action by the city manager or other authority shall be nullified
thereby. Any employee may resign by filing his reasons with the appointing
authority, and an employee so resigning may be reinstated to any position in
the same class if there is need for his services within two (2) years after
date of resignation. (2000 Code § 2-830)
2-8B-11: RECORDS REQUIRED:
   The city manager shall cause to be maintained adequate records of the
proceedings of the personnel board and of his own official acts, the
examination record of every candidate, and the employment record of every
employee. (2000 Code § 2-831)
2-8B-12: INVESTIGATIONS; HEARINGS:
   During the course of any investigation or hearing, the personnel board or
the manager may request any employee of the city to attend and give witness.
Any employee refusing to do so may be subject to disciplinary action as
provided in this code. (2000 Code § 2-832)
2-8B-13: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
   Employees in the classified service shall be selected without regard to
political considerations, may not be required to contribute to any political
purpose, and may not engage in improper political activity. There shall be no
discrimination against any person seeking employment or employed in the
classified service because of any considerations of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, age or handicap unless such action is related to a bona fide
occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the
city. (2000 Code § 2-833; amd. Ord. 1064, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
CHAPTER 9
RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
ARTICLE A. FIREFIGHTERS PENSION FUND
SECTION:
2-9A-1: Firefighters Pension And Retirement Board
2-9A-2: Compliance With State Law
2-9A-1: FIREFIGHTERS PENSION AND RETIREMENT BOARD:
   There is hereby created a local firefighters pension and retirement board
composed of the mayor, the clerk, the treasurer and three (3) members from the
fire department. The board shall have the membership, organization, powers,
duties and functions as prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 49-103 et
seq. (2000 Code § 2-901)
2-9A-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
   The city firefighters pension and retirement system and fund shall be
operated in accordance with state law relating to the fund and system. (2000
Code § 2-902)
ARTICLE B. POLICE PENSION SYSTEM
SECTION:
2-9B-1: Police Pension Board Of Trustees
2-9B-2: Compliance With State Law
2-9B-1: POLICE PENSION BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   There is hereby created a board of trustees which shall have the operation
and management of the police pension and retirement system of the city, which
board of trustees shall consist of the city clerk, city treasurer, and three
(3) members of the police department of the city, which is designated and known
as the board of trustees of the pension and retirement system of the city.
(2000 Code § 2-910)
2-9B-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
   The city police pension and retirement system shall be operated in
accordance with state law relating to the fund and system 1 . (2000 Code § 2-
911)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 50-101 et seq.
ARTICLE C. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
SECTION:
2-9C-1: System Created
2-9C-2: Administration
2-9C-3: Fund
2-9C-4: Appropriations
2-9C-5: Execution
2-9C-6: Conflicting Laws
2-9C-7: Initial Adoption Of System; Amending Ordinances
2-9C-1: SYSTEM CREATED:
That pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the State of Oklahoma,
and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the
part of City employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is hereby
authorized created, established, and approved and adopted, effective as of
April 1, 2022, the amended and restated Plan designated "Employee Retirement
System of the City of Seminole, Oklahoma, Defined Contribution Plan,"
(hereinafter called System), an executed counterpart of which is marked Exhibit
"A" (Joinder Agreement) and Exhibit "B" (amended and restated plan) and
attached hereto as part hereof. (Ord. 929, 9-12-2000; amd. Ord. 930, 9-12-2000;
Ord. 1107, 10-13-2009; Ord. 1264, 4-12-2022; Ord. 1265, 4-12-2022)
2-9C-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   For the purpose of administration of the system, there is hereby established
a retirement committee, which shall be the members of the city council as now
existing or as from time to time duly elected or appointed and constituted. The
powers and duties of the committee shall be set forth in the system instrument
marked "exhibit A". (Ord. 929, 9-12-2000; Ord. 930, 9-12-2000)
2-9C-3: FUND:
A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the persons
entitled to benefits under the System. All contributions to such fund shall be
paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the City. Such Fund
shall be pooled for purposes of management and investment with similar funds of
other incorporated cities, towns, and municipal trusts in the State of Oklahoma
as a part of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund in accordance with the
trust agreement of the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, a public trust. The
City shall hold such contributions in the form received, and from time to time
pay over and transfer the same to the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund, as
duly authorized and directed by the Board of Trustees. The Fund shall be
nonfiscal and shall not be considered in computing any levy when the annual
estimate is made to the County Excise Board. (Ord. 929, 9-12-2000; amd. Ord.
930, 9-12-2000; Ord. 1264, 4-12-2022; Ord. 1265, 4-12-2022)
2-9C-4: APPROPRIATIONS:
The City of Seminole, Oklahoma, is hereby authorized to incur the necessary
expenses for the establishment, operation, and administration of the System,
and to appropriate and pay the same. In addition, the City of Seminole,
Oklahoma, is hereby authorized to appropriate annually such amounts as are
required in addition to employee contributions to maintain the System and the
Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Defined Contribution Plan. Any
appropriation so made to maintain the System and Fund shall be for deferred
wages or salaries, and for the payment of necessary expenses of operation and
administration to be transferred to the trustees of the Oklahoma Municipal
Retirement Fund for such purposes and shall be paid into the Fund when
available, to be duly transferred to the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund.
(Ord. 929, 9-12-2000; amd. Ord. 930, 9-12-2000; Ord. 1264, 4-12-2022; Ord.
1265, 4-12-2022)
2-9C-5: EXECUTION:
   A.   The Mayor and City Clerk be and they are each hereby authorized and
directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an
original) the System instrument, and to do all other acts and things necessary,
advisable, and proper to put said System and related trust into full force and
effect, and to make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the
same under Sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of the
United States. The counterpart attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and Exhibit "B",
which has been duly executed as aforesaid simultaneously with the passage of
this Ordinance and made a part hereof, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all
respects.
   B.   This Committee is hereby authorized and directed to proceed immediately
on behalf of the City of Seminole, Oklahoma, to pool and combine the Fund into
the Oklahoma Municipal Retirement Fund as a part thereof, with similar funds of
such other cities and towns, for purposes of pooled management and investment.
(Ord. 929, 9-12-2000; amd. Ord. 930, 9-12-2000; Ord. 1264, 4-12-2022; Ord.
1265, 4-12-2022)
2-9C-6: CONFLICTING LAWS:
   Any ordinance inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this article is
hereby repealed; provided, however, that such repeal shall be only to the
extent of such inconsistency and in all other respects this article shall be
cumulative of other ordinances regulating and governing subject matter covered
by this article. (Ord. 929, 9-12-2000; Ord. 930, 9-12-2000)
2-9C-7: INITIAL ADOPTION OF SYSTEM; AMENDING ORDINANCES:
   Ordinance 429 initially adopted the employee retirement system as of July 5,
1966, and has been subsequently amended by the following ordinances:
Ordinance Number Adoption Date
Ordinance Number Adoption Date
789              5-14-1991
929              9-12-2000
930              9-12-2000
939              7-10-2001
940              7-10-2001
954              3-11-2003
955              3-11-2003
977              8-10-2004
1095             3-10-2009
1106             10-13-2009
1107             10-13-2009
1109             2-9-2010
1164             3-11-2014
1165             3-11-2014
1175             6-9-2015
1176             6-9-2015
1264             4-12-2022
1265             4-12-2022
 
TITLE 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Fees
3-1-3: Payment Required; Penalty
3-1-4: Annual Report To State
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Certain Terms Defined: As used in this chapter, the following terms
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   RETAIL PACKAGE STORE: Supermarkets, retail alcoholic beverage stores,
grocery stores, convenience stores, drug stores, warehouse clubs and
supercenters as defined by law, legally allowed to sell refrigerated or
nonrefrigerated spirits, wine or beer in their original sealed package.
   STATE LICENSEE: Any person who holds a license issued under the authority of
the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act1. (2000 Code §3-101; amd. Ord.
1209, 2-13-2018) !DEFEND!
   B.   Other Terms And Phrases; Compliance With Statute: All of the terms and
phrases used in this chapter `shall be given the same use and meaning as
defined by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act2. (2000 Code §3-101)
3-1-2: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Levied: There is hereby levied and assessed an annual license fee
on every business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages as specifically
enumerated herein and in the amount herein stated:
FEES
1.  Brewer                  $1,250.00
2.  Distiller               3,125.00
3.  Winemaker               625.00
4.  Oklahoma winemaker      78.00
5.  Rectifier               3,125.00
6.  Wholesaler              3,500.00
7.  Class B wholesaler      625.00
8.  Retail package store    600.00
9.  Mixed beverage
     Initial                600.00
     Renewal                600.00
10. Caterer                 1,000.00
11. Special event - per day 50.00
   B.   Service Organizations: The license fee for those service organizations
which are exempt under section 501(c)(19), (8) or (10) of the Internal Revenue
Code for mixed beverage, caterer or bottle club license shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per year.
   C.   Brewer Or Class B Wholesaler: If a brewer or a Class B wholesaler also
holds a license from the State manufacturer or wholesaler of any low point
beer, then the license fee for such brewer or Class B wholesaler shall be
reduced by seventy five percent (75%). (2000 Code §3-102; amd. Ord. 1080, 4-8-
2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
3-1-3: PAYMENT REQUIRED; PENALTY:
   A.   State License Requirement: Any State licensee originally entering upon
any occupation herein listed shall pay the fee therefor at the Office of the
Community Development on or before the date upon which he enters upon such
occupation. The licensee shall provide a copy of his current State license
before payment of a license fee will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee
shall pay the fee annually on or before April 1.
   B.   Prorating Of License Fee: The license fee subject to this chapter shall
be prorated on a monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins
operations.
   C.   Permit Issuance; Posting: Upon payment of the license fee, the
Community Development Office shall issue a permit to the State licensee which
the licensee shall post in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he
carries on his occupation.
   D.   Failure To Pay Fee; Penalty: Any person who engages in any of the
occupations licensed by this chapter without paying the license fee imposed
therefor in advance of such operation is guilty of an offense against the City,
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of
this Code, excluding costs. Each day of such violation shall constitute a
separate offense. (2000 Code § 3-103; amd. Ord. 1080, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
3-1-4: ANNUAL REPORT TO STATE:
   The City Clerk shall make an annual report to the State Alcoholic Beverage
Laws Enforcement (ABLE) Commission, covering the fiscal year, showing the
number and class of licensees subject to the license fee and the amount of
money collected from the fee. (2000 Code § 3-104; amd. Ord. 1080, 4-8-2008,
eff. 5-8-2008)
CHAPTER 2
LOW POINT BEER
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Location
3-2-3: License Fee
3-2-4: Hours Of Sale
3-2-5: Sale To Intoxicated Persons
3-2-6: Violation; Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half
of one percent alcohol by volume and no more than three and two-tenths percent
(3.2%) alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or cereal malt
beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley or
other grain, malt or similar products.
   RETAIL DEALER: Means and includes any and all persons, corporations and
associations who sell, distribute or dispense within the city any "low point
beer", as defined in this section, at retail to the public for consumption or
use on the premises.
   WHOLESALE DEALER: Means and includes any and all persons, corporations and
associations who sell at wholesale prices low point beer for resale or who
distribute or dispense such low point beer to be consumed on the premises.
(2000 Code § 3-201; amd. Ord. 1080, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
3-2-2: LOCATION:
   It is unlawful for any person, corporation or association, which has been
licensed to sell low point beer and which has as its main purpose the selling
or serving of low point beer for consumption on its premises, to be located
within three hundred feet (300') of any church, or any designated place of
public worship or any public school within the city limits. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to any persons, firms or corporations within the
city who were, prior to this code, engaged in the distribution and sale of low
point beer, and who are the valid holders of a retail beer permit or license
issued by the Oklahoma tax commission and the county judge. (Ord. 1171, 1-13-
2015)
3-2-3: LICENSE FEE:
   It is hereby levied on each retail dealer serving low point beer off the
premises within the city, an annual license fee of ten dollars ($10.00), and on
each retail dealer serving low point beer on the premises within the city, an
annual license fee in the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00), which shall be
payable to the city treasurer. This license is renewable before May 30 of each
year. (2000 Code § 3-204; amd. Ord. 1080, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
3-2-4: HOURS OF SALE:
   It is unlawful for any place licensed to sell low point beer to sell such
low point beer for consumption on the premises between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., excepting Saturdays
when the low point beer may not be sold between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sundays. Any retail dealer possessing a
license to sell low point beer upon the premises shall close such premises to
the public at hours stated herein and shall cause all customers located therein
to be removed from the premises within thirty (30) minutes of the time of
closing as provided herein. (2000 Code § 3-205; amd. Ord. 1080, 4-8-2008, eff.
5-8-2008)
3-2-5: SALE TO INTOXICATED PERSONS:
   Any person or retail dealer who shall knowingly sell, furnish or give any
low point beer to an intoxicated person, as defined in section 10-4-1 of this
code, shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished as provided in
section 3-2-6 of this chapter. (2000 Code § 3-206; amd. Ord. 1080, 4-8-2008,
eff. 5-8-2008)
3-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction of such, shall be
punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 3-203)
CHAPTER 3
PRIVATE CLUBS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definition
3-3-2: Classes Of Clubs
3-3-3: License Review Board
3-3-4: Payment Of License Fee
3-3-5: Filing Of Documents
3-3-6: Class B And C Licenses
3-3-7: Eligibility To Serve As Officers
3-3-8: Violation Of Laws Prohibited
3-3-9: Rentals On Fixed Basis
3-3-10: Right To Enter And Inspect
3-3-11: Serving Food
3-3-12: Sanitary Facilities
3-3-13: Underage Persons Prohibited
3-3-14: Expiration Of License; Proration Of Fee
3-3-15: Free Licenses; Refund
3-3-16: Separate Licenses; Not Transferable
3-3-17: Exhibition Of License
3-3-18: Annual Fees
3-3-19: Inspection Of Clubs
3-3-20: Prohibited Acts
3-3-21: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-3-22: Other Laws Applicable
3-3-23: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITION:
   For the purpose of this chapter, the term "private club" means any
association, person, firm or corporation, key club, bottle club, locker club,
pool club, or any other kind of club or association, excluding the general
public from its premises, place of meeting, congregating, operating or
exercising control over any other place where persons are permitted to drink
alcoholic beverages other than in a private home. (2000 Code § 3-301)
3-3-2: CLASSES OF CLUBS:
   For the purpose of license and regulation, private clubs are divided into
three (3) classes:
   A.   Class A includes private clubs maintained, supported and controlled by
nationally recognized lodges, fraternal societies, or veterans' organizations
for their members only.
   B.   Class B includes restaurants, open to the general public but
maintaining a private room opening into the restaurant, which private room is
used as a private club.
   C.   Class C includes any other private club. (2000 Code § 3-302; amd. Ord.
1080, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
3-3-3: LICENSE REVIEW BOARD:
   A.   Board Established; Duties Generally:
      1.   A license review board is hereby established to review and pass upon
qualifications of applicants or licensees under this chapter. Such license
review board shall issue licenses to applicants qualified under this chapter
and hear complaints and determine revocations of licenses in proper cases.
      2.   The license review board is granted the authority to enact
regulations for the interpretation and enforcement of private clubs. The rules
and regulations shall be drafted by the board and, upon review and approval by
the city council, said board shall govern proceedings before the board.
      3.   No license under this chapter shall be issued by the license review
board until the application therefor has been on file with the city at least
ten (10) days. (2000 Code § 3-303)
   B.   Composition; Quorum:
      1.   The license review board shall be composed of the mayor, the city
manager and all department heads, which board shall pass upon such license
application, and, in the discretion of the majority of the board, may grant or
deny any/all applications made. The city attorney shall be an ex officio member
of such board and shall act as legal advisor but shall have no vote.
      2.   The members of such board shall elect a chairman, and in the event
of the absence of either the chairman or the secretary at any meeting, the
board members present may elect a temporary chairman or secretary. Four (4)
members shall constitute a quorum. A simple majority of such board members
present shall be required for any action. (2000 Code § 3-304; amd. Ord. 1080,
4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
3-3-4: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEE:
   No association, person, firm or corporation shall maintain or operate any
private club in the city without first paying in advance to the city, the
license fee hereinafter prescribed, presenting the receipt for the same to the
city, making application for a license therefor on forms provided by the city,
and receiving a license from the license review board. (2000 Code § 3-305)
3-3-5: FILING OF DOCUMENTS:
   In addition to the payment of the prescribed fee to the city, an applicant
for a license for a private club shall file with the city a copy of a state
issued mixed beverage license; and a list of the officers, directors, owners
and managers of the club, and any stockholders who receive a financial return
on their stock. (2000 Code § 3-306; amd. Ord. 1080, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
3-3-6: CLASS B AND C LICENSES:
   Applicants for class B or class C license shall be either Oklahoma
corporations or associations with written articles of association and bylaws.
The articles or bylaws shall provide for regular election of officers or
directors. (2000 Code § 3-309)
3-3-7: ELIGIBILITY TO SERVE AS OFFICERS:
   No person shall be eligible to election or to serve or act in any private
club as an officer, director, stockholder, owner or manager, nor direct any
policy thereof, who has been convicted of any felony or of violating any of the
gambling or prohibitory laws of the state, any other state, or the United
States, including those heretofore in effect. (2000 Code § 3-310; amd. Ord.
1080, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
3-3-8: VIOLATION OF LAWS PROHIBITED:
   No private club nor any officer, director, stockholder, owner or manager
thereof licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall violate any
of the provisions of the alcoholic beverage control act 1  of the state nor any
other law of the state, nor knowingly permit the violation thereof on any
premises subject to the control of any private club. (2000 Code § 3-311)
 
Notes
1 1. 37 OS § 502 et seq.
3-3-9: RENTALS ON FIXED BASIS:
   No private club licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
have or make any rental or lease agreement with any other person, firm, trust,
estate, corporation or other entity providing for any rentals based upon
percentage of profit of the private club, but any rentals paid or to be paid
shall be on a fixed basis without relation to any income, volume, or profit of
the private club. (2000 Code § 3-312)
3-3-10: RIGHT TO ENTER AND INSPECT:
   The right of entry and inspection of any premises subject to the control of
any private club by any uniformed or nonuniformed officer or agent of any
department charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall be a condition on
which every license is issued. The application for, and acceptance of, any
license hereunder shall conclusively be deemed to be consent of the applicant
and licensee to such entry and inspection. (2000 Code § 3-313)
3-3-11: SERVING FOOD:
   A.   Restaurant Facilities Required: No class C private club licensed
pursuant to this chapter, nor restaurant pursuant to this chapter, nor
restaurant maintaining a class B private club licensed pursuant to this
chapter, shall be operated or maintained without regular, constant, complete
kitchen and restaurant facilities including an adequate sized refrigerator,
approved dishwashing equipment, an oven and a range with at least four (4)
burners. (2000 Code § 3-314)
   B.   Serving Hot Foods: No class C private club licensed pursuant to this
chapter, nor restaurant maintaining a class B private club licensed pursuant to
this chapter, shall be operated or maintained without preparing and serving hot
foods at all hours while open for business, including meats, vegetables and
desserts. (2000 Code § 3-315)
   C.   Compliance With Ordinances: Every private club licensed pursuant to
this chapter shall be subject to all ordinances regulating food handling
establishments. (2000 Code § 3-316)
3-3-12: SANITARY FACILITIES:
   Every private club licensed pursuant to this chapter shall, as a minimum,
provide sanitary and toilet facilities as required by ordinances or health
department regulations governing beer taverns or private clubs. (2000 Code § 3-
317)
3-3-13: UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED:
   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be permitted in or on
that part of the premises subject to the control of any private club where
persons are permitted to drink alcoholic beverages unless accompanied by and in
custody of one of his parents or a guardian. (2000 Code § 3-319)
3-3-14: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEE:
   All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on June 30 of each
year. License fees shall be prorated in the following manner: Applicants filing
applications more than six (6) months prior to June 30 of any year shall pay
the license fee in full. Applicants filing applications less than six (6)
months prior to June 30 of any year shall pay one-half (1/2) of the fee
prescribed herein. No license shall be returned or transferred from person to
person or from place to place. Licenses shall be signed by the city clerk and
countersigned by the city treasurer. The city clerk shall affix the corporate
seal of the city thereto. (2000 Code § 3-320)
3-3-15: FREE LICENSES; REFUND:
   No free licenses shall be granted, nor rebates allowed, for any cause, nor
any sum accepted less than the amount herein specified, nor for a shorter
period than herein required. (2000 Code § 3-321)
3-3-16: SEPARATE LICENSES; NOT TRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Separate Licenses: A separate license must be obtained for each branch
established or separate place operated by any private club, and each license
shall authorize the operation of a private club only at the location described
in the license, and in conformity to the ordinances of the city and the laws of
the state and the United States.
   B.   License Nontransferable: No license shall be transferable to another
person, firm, association or corporation or to any other location. (2000 Code §
3-322)
3-3-17: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
   Every private club having a license under the provisions of this chapter
shall place and exhibit the same at all times while in force in some
conspicuous place in the premises licensed, and shall produce or exhibit the
same when applying for a renewal thereof. The entrance of every private club
shall be plainly marked "Private Club Members Only". (2000 Code § 3-323)
3-3-18: ANNUAL FEES:
   An annual license tax or fee is hereby levied upon all persons, firms,
associations or corporations operating a private club within the city in the
following amounts:
 
Class A $150.00
Class B 350.00
Class C 500.00
 
(2000 Code § 3-324)
3-3-19: INSPECTION OF CLUBS:
   The police and fire departments shall inspect all private clubs regularly to
enforce all of the terms of this chapter, and report any violations to the
license review board. (2000 Code § 3-325; amd. Ord. 1080, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-
2008)
3-3-20: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   It is an offense, punishable as hereinafter set forth, and grounds for the
revocation or suspension of a license issued hereunder for any private club, or
operator, partner, or manager, or person having supervisory control thereof, or
employee, to do or permit to be done, on or about the licensed premises, any of
the following acts:
   A.   Violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Violate any of the statutes of the state pertaining to alcoholic
beverages. (2000 Code § 3-326)
   C.   Violate any of the regulations promulgated by the alcoholic beverage
laws enforcement (ABLE) commission.
   D.   Consume or permit the consumption of any alcoholic beverages on any
licensed premises between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. on any day. (2000 Code § 3-326; amd. Ord. 1080, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-
8-2008)
   E.   Permit any person not an employee to remain on the licensed premises
where the consumption of alcoholic beverages is usually permitted as a part of
the operation of the private club after two fifteen o'clock (2:15) A.M. on any
day of the week and before the next regular opening hour.
   F.   Serve to or allow any intoxicated person to consume any alcoholic
beverages on the premises so licensed.
   G.   Permit an intoxicated person to be or to remain on the licensed
premises.
   H.   Permit a person under the age of twenty one (21) years to consume
intoxicating alcoholic beverages on the premises.
   I.   Serve or permit to be served any intoxicating alcoholic beverages to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   J.   Permit a person under the age of twenty one (21) years to serve any
intoxicating alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises. (2000 Code § 3-326)
3-3-21: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority To Suspend: The license review board may suspend for not more
than fifteen (15) days, or revoke, licenses issued hereunder if, after public
hearing, as hereinafter provided, the board finds that the holder of the
license has violated any of the provisions of this code.
   B.   Investigation; Complaint; Hearing: The chief of police shall
investigate complaints concerning private clubs and if he finds a violation of
the provisions has been committed, he shall file a complaint with the city
clerk setting forth the alleged acts constituting the violation. Upon the
filing of such complaint, the city clerk shall fix a date for hearing the
complaint by the license review board and shall cause to be served upon the
licensee a copy of the complaint and notice of the time and place of the
hearing. The complaint and notice of hearing shall be served upon the manager,
operator, partner or person shown on the license as having supervisory control
over the premises of the private club, or if such person may not be found, by
mailing the same by registered mail, addressed to such person at the licensed
premises. At the hearing thereon, the complainant, the licensee, or any
interested person may be present and present such evidence as may be relevant
and material. If at the conclusion of such hearing, the license review board
finds that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this code, the
board shall suspend for not more than fifteen (15) days, or revoke, the license
issued to the private club. Upon suspension or revocation, the licensee shall
immediately cease operation as a private club. (2000 Code § 3-327)
3-3-22: OTHER LAWS APPLICABLE:
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to exempt any person,
firm, corporation, or association operating a private club from compliance with
any other applicable ordinance of the city not in conflict herewith. (2000 Code
§ 3-328)
3-3-23: PENALTY:
   Any person, partnership, corporation or association, or officer, director,
stockholder, owner or manager of any private club who violates any provision of
this chapter is guilty of an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 3-329)
TITLE 4
ANIMALS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMALS AND FOWL; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context otherwise requires:
             A structure or area of structural soundness with three sides, a waterproof roof,
             solid floor, adequate bedding material, positioned to allow for protection from
             north and west winds, proper ventilation, and which is suitable for the species,
             age, condition, size and type of animal which is safe and protects each animal
ADEQUATE     from injury, precipitation, direct sunlight, adverse effects of extreme heat or
SHELTER:     cold, enables the animal to be clean and dry, and has sufficient room for the
             animal to move about freely and to lie comfortably while allowing the retention
             of the animal's body heat. Wildlife, livestock, and other non-domesticated
             animals normally residing outdoors shall be only required to have appropriate
             shelter from extreme weather through natural or artificial means available to it
             to protect the animal.
ANIMAL       The Chief of Police or his/her designee; or any City of Seminole official or
CONTROL      entity charged with the responsibility of animal control or designee, to include,
AUTHORITIES: but not limited to any third-party authorized to provide animal control
             operations or services.
             The facility designated and/or operated by the City or its designee, including
             the actual premises where animals are regularly kept, or places where the Animal
             Control authority or its designee may designate, for the purpose of keeping or
ANIMAL       impounding stray, neglected, abused or seized animals and provide adequate care
WELFARE      before disposal of the animals as outlined in this chapter. The Animal Welfare
CENTER:      Center includes a portion of the facility to provide for animal adoptions,
             education, citizen involvement, and spaying or neutering of animals before
             adoption from the facility. This shall include the premises commonly known as the
             "Animal Shelter."
             A nonprofit organization which is approved by the City Council to provide animal
             control services and/or operate the Animal Welfare Center and has a primary
             purpose of providing for the welfare and/or protection of animals. Approval may
             be refused to any animal welfare group if the City Council determines that the
             animal welfare group or one of its members meets one or more of the following:
ANIMAL       A.   Has a record of cruelty to animals;
WELFARE      B.   Is under eighteen (18) years of age;
GROUP:       C.   Has committed substantiated acts of neglect or harassment to animals;
             D.   Owns other animals which are in violation of any requirement of this Title;
             E.   Refuses to comply with any contractual requirement with the City of Seminole
             with regard to the provision of animal control and welfare services;
             F.   Lacks adequate housing and/or fencing to contain the animals; or
             G.   Has a conviction in any Court for any violation of this Title.
AT HEEL:     Within a radius of ten feet (10') of the owner and obedient to the owner's
             commands.
             A phrase indicating that an animal is:
AT LARGE:    A.   Off the premises of its owner and not securely and physically restrained by
             means of harness, leash, or other device designed to restrain such animal.
             C.   Not confined on the premises of the owner or at heel on said premises.
CHICKEN      A small structure or enclosure where chickens nest, roost or perch and may
COOP:        include feeding and watering devices.
CHICKEN RUN: An enclosed area physically connected to the coop where chickens are able to walk
             or run about which may include feeding and watering devices.
             Any business or establishment, whether operated separately or in connection with
COMMERCIAL   another business or establishment that keeps, boards, sells, shows, and/or trains
KENNEL:      dogs or cats for profit. This does not include animal hospitals or veterinary
             clinics.
CONFINED ON  Means and indicates that an animal is securely and physically restrained on and
THE          within the premises of the owner by means of fences, leashes, walls, or other
PREMISES:    devices designed to prevent the animal from leaving those premises.
             Any animal whose behavior, temperament, size, or any combination thereof, when
             considered under the totality of the circumstances, including the nature of the
             surrounding area, constitutes a reasonable risk of injuring a human or animal or
DANGEROUS    damaging personal or real property. That behavior includes, but is not limited
ANIMAL:      to, an animal biting or attacking or attempting to attack a human or another
             animal. However, this definition shall not apply to any animal that has been
             subject to provocation or if the victim has been trespassing, as defined in
             Section
             10-2-13 of this Code, upon the animal owner's premises.
             Any domestic species of cattle, sheep, swine, goats, llamas, or horses, or any
DOMESTICATED other animals which are normally and have historically, been kept and raised on
ANIMAL:      farms in the United States, and used or intended for use as food or fiber, or for
             improving animal nutrition, breeding, management, or production efficiency, or
             for improving the quality of food or fiber; in permitted A-1 zones only.
             The term "exotic wildlife" means any of the following animals:
             A.   A lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, cheetah, margay, lynx, jaguar, jaguarundi,
             or any and all other felines (family Felidae), except the domestic cat (species
             Felis domesticus);
             B.   A grizzly bear, or any and all other bears (family Ursidae);
             C.   A wolf, fox, jackal, hyena, or any other canines (family Canidae), except
             the domestic dog (species Canis familiaris);
             D.   Any and all venomous reptiles (venomous members of the class Reptilia),
EXOTIC       including without limitation, Gila monster (species Heloderma suspectum), beaded
WILDLIFE:    lizard (species Heloderma horridum), and venomous snakes (venomous members of the
             suborder Serpentes);
             E.   Any and all crocodiles, caimans, or alligators (family Crocodilia);
             F.   Gorillas, orangutans, baboons, macaques, or chimpanzees; or any non-human
             primate (order Primata) that is not licensed pursuant to the provisions of this
             Title; or any non-human primate (order Primata) that test positive for
             tuberculosis or herpes B;
             G.   Cassowaries (genus Casuarius);
             H.   Any cross-breed or hybrid which includes any animal defined as exotic
             wildlife in subsections (1)(a) through (g), inclusive, of this definition.
             A dog or cat that was either born in the wild or has reverted to a wild state due
FERAL DOG OR to abandonment or lack of domestication and has no owner. Any feral dog or cat
CAT:         which has been captured and neutered or spayed and returned to the wild shall
             continue to be classified as a feral animal.
             Any premises owned by an individual who works with or under the direction of an
             approved Animal Welfare Group registered with the City who will take in stray or
             unowned dogs and/or cats, or other animals, for the purpose of providing
FOSTER HOME: temporary care up to twelve (12) months for each animal. A temporary care
             extension may be requested for up to an additional six (6) months for an animal,
             if there is proof of a documented medical condition that requires the extended
             temporary housing of the animal.
             The term "native wildlife" means any and all species of wildlife that are
NATIVE       indigenous to or occur naturally within the State, including, but not limited to,
WILDLIFE:    mountain lion (cougar), bobcat, coyote, red fox, gray fox, black bear, and
             American alligator.
             The term "neutered" means a process performed by a veterinarian or other person
NEUTERED:    authorized by law, which removes the reproductive organs of any male animal as
             defined in 4 O.S. §§ 499 et. seq. Dog and Cat Sterilization Act.
             An animal that:
             A.   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner, including, but not
NUISANCE:    limited to, scratches or digs about any flower bed, garden, tilled soil, vines,
             shrubbery, or small plants and in so doing injures them;
             B.   Habitually prowls around, on, or over any premises not the property of its
             owner to the frequent annoyance of the owner or occupant of those premises;
             C.   Overturns any garbage can or other container of waste products, or scatters
             the contents of the same;
             D.   Chases or kills any domesticated animals or domesticated birds;
             E.   Annoys or disturbs any person by loud and frequent barking, howling,
             yelping, or causes noise in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion/manner
            so as to interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring private
             premises;
             F.   An animal that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps at, or barks at
             pedestrians, joggers, dogs walked by owners, bicycles or vehicles;
             G.   Disturbs the rights of, threatens the safety of or injures a member of the
             general public or interferes with the ordinary use and enjoyment of his property.
             Any person possessing legal title to any animal or, possessing no legal title, is
             identified by City pet license or microchip registration, or a person who keeps
OWNER:       or harbors the animal in excess of fourteen (14) days without delivering the
             animal to its proper owner or the Animal Welfare Center, provides food or water
             regularly for the animal, or provides routine or ongoing non-emergency medical
             care for the animal.
PRIVATE      Any premises which exceeds the allowable number of dogs and/or cats as described
KENNEL:      in this section, and the animals are kept as pets and not used for any other
             purpose other than companionship for their owners.
             Any facility operated by a non-profit Animal Welfare Group where dogs and/or
             cats, or other animals, are kept and are provided temporary housing for an animal
RESCUE       for up to twelve (12) months and up to an additional six (6) months if there is
KENNEL:      proof of a documented medical condition that requires the extended temporary
             housing, and care for the purpose of placing them into a permanent home, except
             for a designated foster home.
             A dog that has been individually trained to do work or perform tasks for the
             benefit of an individual with a disability, including an individual with a
             disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other
             mental disability. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) rules state that
SERVICE      other animals, whether wild or domestic, do not qualify as service animals. Dogs
ANIMAL:      that are not trained to perform tasks that mitigate the effects of a disability,
             including dogs that are purely for emotional support, are not service animals.
             Therapy, comfort, and/or emotional support animals are often a great asset to
             those they work with. However, they are not service animals, and may not enjoy
             the same rights, privileges and/or access to restricted areas as is allowed under
             federal or State law, as a service animal.
             The term "spayed" means a process performed by a veterinarian or other person
SPAYED:      authorized by law, which removes the reproductive organs of any female animal as
             defined in 4 O.S. §§ 499 et. seq. Dog and Cat Sterilization Act.
UNPROVOKED:  An act of aggression towards an animal or human that occurs without apparent
             cause, reason, prompting or motivation.
 
(2000 Code § 4-101; amd. Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
4-2-1: Authority Of Animal Welfare Personnel; Inspection
4-2-2: Duties Of Animal Welfare Supervisor
4-2-3: Fees, Charges, And Deposits
4-2-4: Obtaining Release Of Impounded Animals
4-2-5: Disposition Of Animals Not Retrieved By Owners
4-2-6: Owner Responsibilities For Lost And Missing Animals
4-2-7: Refusal To Redeem Impounded Animal
4-2-8: Quarantine Of Animals Which Injure Persons
4-2-9: Destruction Or Impoundment Of Animal Suspected Rabid
4-2-10: Animals That Die After Injuring A Person; Procedure
4-2-11: Registration Of Dogs And Cats; License Required
4-2-12: License Not Required; Exemptions
4-2-13: Term Of License
4-2-14: License Application
4-2-15: Rabies Vaccination
4-2-16: Issuance Of Tags And Certificates
4-2-17: Owner Must Attach License
4-2-18: Tag Or Certificate Must Be Shown
4-2-19: Removal Of Registration Tags Prohibited
4-2-20: Lost And Destroyed Tags
4-2-21: Counterfeit And Imitation Tags
4-2-22: Authority To Euthanize
4-2-23:    Penalties
4-2-1: AUTHORITY OF ANIMAL WELFARE PERSONNEL; INSPECTION:
   A.   Enforcement Authority. Animal Welfare personnel shall have an
obligation to assist with enforcing the provisions of this Title when
circumstances permit. Although they shall not be possessed with the powers of
arrest or to issue citations, they shall be authorized to take any necessary
action regarding animals that are subject to impound for the welfare and safety
of the general public, as well as to the animal. They shall be further
authorized to submit a verified Citizen Complaints for the prosecution of
offenses for any violation of this Title.
   B.   Use of Force. Animal Welfare personnel are specifically authorized to
use whatever means necessary to impound animals in violations of the provisions
of this Title, including, but not limited to, the use of tranquilizer guns.
When circumstances are required, they may seek the assistance of police to
assist with the enforcement of these provisions.
   C.   Inspection of Licensed Kennels. The Office of Code Enforcement or
designee may, upon complaint or on their own initiative, inspect any structure
or place licensed or suspected of operating an unlicensed kennel. Any licensed
kennel shall receive at least one (1) inspection annually at each licensed or
registered location.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-2: DUTIES OF ANIMAL WELFARE SUPERVISOR:
The Animal Welfare Supervisor (or equivalent individual designated by the
Animal Welfare Group) shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
   A.   Supervise all Animal Welfare Officers, Employees, Personnel and
Volunteers as may be applicable;
   B.   Staffing, administration and maintenance of the Animal Welfare Center;
   C.   Seize and retrieve all animals in violation of the provisions of this
Title or any animal that is or will be without proper care because of injury,
illness, incarceration or running at-large, and shall impound them at the
Animal Welfare Center;
   D.   Incapacitate or destroy by any means necessary any dangerous animal
when causing an immediate threat to a human or another animal after a
reasonable attempt is unable to be captured;
   E.   Provide suitable and necessary sustenance and care for all animals
while impounded in their custody;
   F.   Release an impounded animal to its owner after all impoundment fees and
room and board charges are paid in full. The Animal Welfare Shelter Manager, or
designated employees, shall have the discretion and authority to waive or
suspend part or all of the fees based on documentable, reasonable and necessary
needs to allow an animal to be returned to its owner;
   G.   Account for all income and expenditures. Transfer all required proceeds
from sales, fees, charges, and deposits to the City Clerk.
   H.   Perform all other obligations as may be set forth by contractual
agreement with the City;
Nothing in this section shall prevent the Animal Welfare Supervisor or his
designee from seizing and/or forfeiting an impounded animal pursuant to any
other provision of the City ordinances or State law.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-3: FEES, CHARGES, AND DEPOSITS:
   A.   Fees, charges and/or deposits may be charged for each animal for the
following costs and services:
      1.   Impoundment of each animal;
      2.   Handling fee for special equipment or services;
      3.   Room and boarding charge;
      4.   Sterilization fee;
      5.   Veterinarian fees;
      6.   Quarantine fees for animals that have injured persons or suspected
to have rabies;
      7.   Impound fees for animals declared dangerous or awaiting the
determination    process;
      8.   Dead animal disposal fee;
      9.   Pet license fee;
      10.   Kennel permit and inspection fees;
      11.   Replacement license or tag;
      12.   Other fees and costs not identified on the fee schedule but deemed
necessary and appropriate for the care and welfare of the animal.
   B.   Said fees shall be set administratively and based upon the actual cost
of providing said services. The fee schedule shall be placed on file in the
City Clerk's office and reviewed annually.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-4: OBTAINING RELEASE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
Owners of impounded animals may retrieve or otherwise obtain the release of
their animals from the Animal Welfare Center only after the applicable payment
of fees and costs as set forth in the fee schedule, subject to any waiver as
may be approved. (Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-5: DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS NOT RETRIEVED BY OWNERS:
   A.   Disposition of Animals. Except as hereinafter provided, any animal
which is impounded by the City pursuant to the provisions contained herein,
shall be adopted, rehomed or otherwise disposed of after five (5) business days
from the time of its impoundment. Animal shelter authorities shall have
discretion to dispose of any animal taken into custody in a manner consistent
with this policy, to include, but not limited to, adoption, rehoming, transfer
to a responsible third party or euthanasia. Every effort shall be made to
preserve each animal in lieu of euthanasia with due consideration given to the
health, safety and welfare of the public and the maximum number of animals
permitted in the shelter facility.
   B.   Time Period Defined. For the purposes of this section, the five (5)-day
time period shall begin at eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. the day following the
animal's intake into the facility. Calculation of the five (5) business days
shall not include weekends, holidays, or other days the shelter is not open to
the public.
   C.   Exemptions. Impounded kittens and puppies which enter the shelter in
groups of three (3) or more and are under four months of age without a known
owner or mother may, at the discretion of the shelter staff, be exempted from
any required hold times prior to their release. The age of four (4) months
shall be determined by the eruption of the animal's adult teeth.
   D.   Seized Animals; Procedure. Animals held at the Animal Welfare Center
due to legal seizure, arrest, medical situation, protective custody seizures,
or other legal means involving law enforcement requests shall be returned to
the owners or legal representative as soon as possible. Upon verification that
the animal's owner has been notified of its impoundment, the five (5)-day
holding time referenced in the above section shall apply as if the animal were
impounded for other reasons.
   E.   Extension of Time for Identified Animals. An animal's impoundment
period will be automatically increased by forty-eight (48) hours should that
impounded animal display a tag, microchip or markings indicating that:
      1.   The owner of such animal is a City resident; or
      2.   Such animal displays a tag which indicates it is vaccinated against
rabies.
   F.   Retention of Animal by Court Directive. Should it be determined that
the owner of an impounded animal has demonstrated the inability to properly
care for said animal, or is experiencing a situation that prohibits him from
reclaiming or arranging for the release of the animal in a timely and
reasonable manner, the Animal Welfare Supervisor may seek an order from a judge
of competent jurisdiction for the release of the animal into the care and
custody of the Animal Welfare Center in order that the highest level of long-
term care and safety of the animal may be provided for. The Court may direct
the forfeiture of any animal upon satisfactory proof that the animal has been
subject to gross neglect or abuse.
   G.   Disposal or Destruction of Impounded Animals; Procedure. The manner and
method of disposal or destruction of an impounded animal shall be directed by
the Animal Welfare Supervisor or a licensed veterinarian. Such disposal may
include, but is not limited to, adoptions, euthanasia, or transfer to another
animal welfare group, an animal rescue group or other animal welfare facility.
For domestic animals other than dogs and cats, sale by auction may be utilized
as outlined in State law. No live animals shall be released or sold to any
facility for educational, scientific and/or medical research. Notwithstanding
any provisions of this Title, no animal suspected of being rabid or otherwise
diseased shall be destroyed until such destruction is recommended by a licensed
veterinarian.
   H.   Adoption Criteria. Adoption or sale may be refused to anyone determined
by the Animal Welfare Group or their designated authority based upon one or
more of the following:
      1.   Has a record of cruelty to animals;
      2.   Is not of sufficient age or lacks the capacity to properly care for
an animal;
      3.   Has committed verified acts of neglect, abuse or harassment to an
animal;
      4.   Lacks adequate housing, fencing or other necessary facilities to
contain or properly care for the animal;
      5.   Has a conviction in Municipal Court for a violation of this Title.
      6.   Does not agree to comply with any and all other requirements of
adoption as mandated by the Animal Welfare Group policies and procedures;
      7.   Does not meet any other established criteria to be a responsible pet
owner as set forth by applicable policies or guidelines.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-6: OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES FOR LOST AND MISSING ANIMALS:
   Proper custody and control of all animals is an owner responsibility.
Locating lost or missing animals is the sole responsibility of the owner. The
Animal Shelter Facility, it's employees or its designees shall not be
responsible in any fashion for the disposition of impounded animals past the
time permitted for the owner to recover the animal. An owner shall be obligated
to timely inquire of the Animal Welfare Facility to determine whether a missing
animal is in its custody and retrieve said animal. Failure to do so may forfeit
the right of the owner to recover the animal should other lawful disposition
occur. In all instances, the owner of any ill, injured or disabled animal shall
be liable for any additional fees and costs incurred with its impoundment.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-7: REFUSAL TO REDEEM IMPOUNDED ANIMAL:
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, possessor, harborer or keeper of an
animal which has been impounded by the Animal Welfare Center to refuse to
respond or to make arrangements to redeem an impounded animal as soon as
reasonably possible once they have been notified of the impoundment.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-8: QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS WHICH INJURE PERSONS:
   When any animal capable of carrying or transmitting rabies or other disease
bites or otherwise injures a person, or is suspected of having rabies, such
animal shall be quarantined as directed in the State Department of Health
Zoonotic Disease Control Rules, OAC title 310, chapter 599, pursuant to the
authority contained in 63 O.S. §§ 1-508 et seq.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to confine an animal who has bitten a person
("bite animal"). Each day that a violation or failure to comply exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-9: DESTRUCTION OR IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMAL SUSPECTED RABID:
   A.   Rabid Animal. Any animal which has contracted rabies shall immediately
be destroyed.
   B.   Unvaccinated Animal. Any unvaccinated animal which has been bitten by
another animal which is rabid shall, at the option of the owner:
      1.   Immediately be destroyed; or
      2.   Be impounded for not less than six (6) months in a licensed
veterinarian's hospital or other designated quarantine location for the
purposes of observation and such animal shall be vaccinated at least three (3)
days prior to release. All costs of that impoundment are to be paid by the
owner of the impounded animal.
   C.   Vaccinated Animal. Any effectively vaccinated animal which is bitten by
a rabid animal shall be immediately revaccinated and restrained by leashing and
confinement, for a period of at least 90 days, by the owner.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-10: ANIMALS THAT DIE AFTER INJURING A PERSON; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Ten Day Period; Notification. Should any animal bite or inflict by
other means an open wound on a person and cause an exposure to saliva or other
potentially infectious tissue, and thereafter die for any reason within ten
(10) days, the owner of that animal must notify the Animal Welfare Supervisor
and secure an examination of the animal's head by an authorized agency of the
City, County, or State qualified to give such examinations. Should any animal
die while impounded at the Animal Shelter, the Animal Welfare Supervisor shall
follow the procedure as set forth in this section.
   B.   Examination of Remains. The head of the animal shall be delivered to
such examining agency within a period of not more than twelve (12) hours
subsequent to its death, if the death occurs at night; and no more than three
(3) hours subsequent to the death if such occurs between the hours of five
o’clock (5:00) a.m. and six o’clock (6:00) p.m.
   C.   Report of Examination. Upon receipt of the examination report, the
owner must immediately transmit the results thereof to the person bitten or if
such person is a minor, to the minor's parent, guardian, or other authorized
adult relative. A copy of the written examination report shall also be
forwarded to the Animal Welfare Supervisor.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-11: REGISTRATION OF DOGS AND CATS; LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required. Every person within the City owning, possessing,
controlling, harboring, or keeping any dog or cat over six (6) months of age
shall procure a pet license tag for each dog or cat from the Animal Welfare
Center or authorized agent, as long as ownership of the dog or cat continues,
or within thirty (30) days after acquiring or bringing into the City any dog or
cat over the age of six (6) months, and shall continue to procure such tags as
required herein, so long as ownership of the dog or cat continues.
   B.   License fees shall be waived or reduced for the following:
      1.   Service animals shall not be charged a pet license fee.
      2.   Senior citizens (fifty-five (55) years of age and above), active-
duty military, and military veterans shall receive a fifty percent (50%)
discount on a pet license fee.
      3.   Adopted animals from the City shall receive a waiver of the first-
year pet license. The Animal Welfare Center shall provide a license tag for the
first year at no cost which shall be displayed on the animal at all times.
   C.   Issuing Entities. It shall be permissible for voluntary licensing
stations to be operated by nonprofit organizations or veterinary hospitals,
allowing such voluntary licensing stations to retain four dollars ($4.00) of
the pet licensing fees with the remainder of such fee amounts to be retained by
the City.
   D.   Transfer of License. When the dog or cat has a valid license from any
county or from another city within the State, proof of such licensing shall be
submitted to the Animal Welfare Center and an animal license tag shall be
issued to the owner for a fee established administratively.
   E.   Transfer of Ownership within City. Within thirty (30) days of the
transfer or sale of a dog or cat with a valid City license, the new owner shall
purchase a new pet license from the Animal Welfare Center should the new owner
reside within the city limits.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-12: LICENSE NOT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
The requirements of a pet license shall not apply to dogs or cats found within
the City under any of the following conditions:
   A.   When the dog or cat is owned by, or in the care of, any person who is a
nonresident or who is traveling through the City, or who is temporarily within
the City limits, for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days;
   B.   When the dog or cat is brought into the City and kept therein for a
period not exceeding thirty (30) days, for the exclusive purpose of entering
the dog or cat in any bench show, dog exhibition, field trials or other
competition;
   C.   When the dog or cat is brought or sent into the City for the exclusive
purpose of receiving veterinary care in any veterinary clinic or animal
hospital.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-13: TERM OF LICENSE:
   Each pet license issued shall be effective for a one or three year period,
at the option of the owner, and shall be issued upon payment of all required
fees, charges, and penalties established administratively, and upon compliance
with all conditions required for issuance of a license.
   A new license issued for a period commencing after the first of any month
shall be effective from that date until the last day of the same month in the
following years, as appropriate.
   Any license renewal shall be effective from the first day of the month
following the expiration date of the license being renewed.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-14: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   The owner shall provide, at the time application is made and upon standard
printed forms of an application provided for such purpose, the Owner's name,
address, and telephone number and the name, breed, color, age, sex, physical
location where the dog or cat is kept, and microchip and tattoo information of
each dog or cat for which application is made.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-15: RABIES VACCINATION:
   As a condition for the issuance of a City pet license for a dog or cat, all
applications for such license shall procure and deliver to the licensing
authority a certificate issued by a duly licensed veterinarian certifying the
dog or cat to be licensed has been administered an anti-rabies vaccination
sufficient to immunize said dog or cat against rabies for the entire license
period.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-16: ISSUANCE OF TAGS AND CERTIFICATES:
   A metallic tag and license certificate with corresponding number shall be
furnished by a veterinarian or other proper license authority upon payment of
the appropriate fee.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-17: OWNER MUST ATTACH LICENSE:
The licensing authority shall keep a record of the name of such owner or person
making payment of said license fee and to whom a certificate and tag shall have
been issued, and the number and date of such certificate and such tag. Such
metal tag shall be securely fixed to a collar, harness or other device to be
worn at all times by the registered dog or cat. Cats and dogs are exempt from
wearing a tag as long as the animal is in compliance with Section
4-2-5 and is microchipped with current information.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-18: TAG OR CERTIFICATE MUST BE SHOWN:
   No person shall fail or refuse to show to any Animal Welfare Officer, Code
Enforcement or Police Officer, upon request, the license certificate or tag for
any duly registered dog or cat kept or remaining with any home or upon any
enclosed premises under their immediate control. (Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-19: REMOVAL OF REGISTRATION TAGS PROHIBITED:
   Only the owner or licensing authority shall have the authority to remove or
cause the removal of the license tag or other device authorized by the
licensing authority used to identify the dog or cat owner.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-20: LOST AND DESTROYED TAGS:
   If the license tag is lost or destroyed, the owner shall have 30 days to
procure a new license tag or other identifying device authorized by and from
the licensing authority for a fee established administratively. (Ord. 1295, 2-
13-2024)
4-2-21: COUNTERFEIT AND IMITATION TAGS:
   No person shall imitate or counterfeit tags or other devices authorized by
the licensing authority prescribed by this Title, or have in his possession any
imitation or counterfeit device or tags. (Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-22: AUTHORITY TO EUTHANIZE:
   The Animal Welfare Center shall have the authority to carry out the humane
euthanasia of any animal lawfully taken into custody by the Animal Welfare
Center which is:
   A.   Affected with any dangerous, painful, incurable or communicable
disease;
   B.   Incurably crippled or suffering incurably after reasonable effort has
been made to notify the owner; or
   C.   Deemed to have dangerous or aggressive behavior.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-2-23: PENALTIES:
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person convicted of
violating the provisions of any section or subsection of this chapter shall be
a misdemeanor offense and subject to punishment in accordance with Title 1,
Chapter 1,
Section 8 and
9 respectively of this Code. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Keeping Of Animals Other Than Dogs And Cats
4-3-2: Killing Of Wild Birds
4-3-3: Movement Of Livestock
4-3-4: Large Reptiles Allowed
4-3-1: KEEPING OF ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Non-Domestic Farm Animals Prohibited; Exceptions. Except, as provided
otherwise, all animals commonly known as domesticated farm animals may be kept
and maintained in any of the City's zoning districts only as long as:
      1.   The provisions of Title 12 of this Code pertaining thereto are
complied with;
      2.   Such animals maintained in single-family, two-family or multifamily
districts are not permitted closer than:
         a.   Twenty-five feet (25') to a lot line upon which is situated an
inhabited dwelling; nor
         b.   One hundred feet (100') to any dwelling other than the owner's;
         c.   The owner or occupant of the land upon which such animals are
kept and maintained erects and maintains a suitable barrier sufficient to
ensure compliance with the above distance requirements.
   B.   Chickens; Roosters Prohibited. Except, as provided otherwise, chickens
or laying hens may be kept and maintained in the R-1 zoning district so long
as:
      1.   The provisions of Title 12 of this Code pertaining thereto are
complied with;
      2.   Such chickens or laying hens are maintained on land upon which the
owner or occupant resides;
      3.   Roosters shall not be permitted in any zoning district.
   C.   Chickens or laying hens may only be kept under the following
conditions:
      1.   No more than four (4) chickens or laying hens are allowed per R-1-
zoned parcel unless additional setback conditions can be achieved as described
in subsection A.2. of this section;
      2.   The chickens are kept within a designated chicken coop and chicken
run, unless supervised as described in subsection B.3.m. of this section;
      3.   The chicken coop and chicken run shall be located in the rear or
backyard of a residential property. No part of the coop or run shall be located
in the side or front yard;
      4.   The chicken coop and chicken run shall be attached and shall be
located no closer than five feet from any side or rear property lines and no
closer than twenty-five feet (25') from any dwelling unit other than the
owner's. Movable chicken enclosures are permitted as long as they meet the
setbacks as indicated in this section;
      5.   The minimum size for a chicken coop shall be four (4) square feet
per animal and the chicken run shall be eight square feet per animal;
      6.   During daylight hours, the chickens shall have access to a chicken
run and a chicken coop;
      7.   From dusk until dawn, chickens shall be kept within the chicken coop
as protection from predators;
      8.   Chicken coops shall be predator resistant and any open walls or
windows shall be designed to prevent access by predators;
      9.   Chicken runs shall be adequately fenced and protected from
predators;
      10.   The outside openings of any enclosure shall be screened to prevent
the spread of disease by flies and vermin;
      11.   Water shall be provided onsite and accessible to chickens at all
times;
      12.   Chickens are permitted to be outside of a run or coop during
daylight hours but must be supervised and contained inside a fenced yard at all
times; chickens that stray outside the fenced yard may be regarded as nuisance
animals under the provisions of Section 4-1-1 herein;
      13.   All chicken enclosures shall be cleaned regularly to prevent an
accumulation of food, fecal matter, or nesting material from creating a
nuisance or unsanitary condition due to odor, vermin, debris, or decay.
      14.   Electrical and heat sources shall comply with the City's building
code.
   D.   Swine prohibited. No person shall own, keep, or maintain a swine within
the City limits, except in those areas zoned A-1 or A-2 and only then when in
compliance with the limitations regarding those areas.
   E.   Exotic and Native Wildlife; Reptiles. Except as otherwise provided, no
person shall keep and maintain, or allow to be maintained any exotic or native
wildlife or dangerous or venomous reptiles.
   F.   Exceptions. Persons and entities excepted from of the requirements of
this section shall be:
      1.   Duly authorized educational institutions;
      2.   Agents or employees properly authorized by an educational
institution to keep and maintain that institution's animals in connection with
any lawful experimental or research program;
      3.   City recognized Zoological gardens;
      4.   Zoos which are supervised and publicly maintained;
      5.   Falconry facilities that have a current license issued by the U.S.
Department of the Interior, by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, or a license
issued by the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation under the rules
adopted in 50 CFR 21 of the Federal Regulations;
      6.   Jasmine Moran Children's Museum;
   G.   Transportation; Access. Anyone housing or maintaining any animal
subject to this section shall be required to ensure the animal is properly
secured during any transport, remains detained, or prohibited from unsafe
access to others;
   H.   Documentation. Anyone housing or maintaining an animal subject to this
section shall be required to provide proof of required licensing and liability
insurance to any City officer or designated authority for keeping and
displaying said animal.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-3-2: KILLING OF WILD BIRDS:
   A.   Prohibitions. No person shall trap, hunt, shoot, kill, destroy,
capture, or molest any wild bird, or rob or molest any such bird's nest.
   B.   Exceptions. Persons excepted from subsection (a) of this section are as
follows:
      1.   Those persons hunting and killing game birds as defined and
regulated by the laws, rules and regulations of the U.S. Government, the State
of Oklahoma, the City, their agencies or branches; and within those areas
authorized by the City;
      2.   City employees authorized by the Police Chief, animal control
personnel or other appropriate authority who eliminate starlings, pigeons, or
other wild birds who increase in such great numbers or are found congregating
to such an extent within the City so as may constitute or potentially
constitute a health hazard or nuisance to City residents, in accordance with
State and federal wildlife laws.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-3-3: MOVEMENT OF LIVESTOCK:
   No person shall allow any livestock to be at-large, picketed, staked,
herded, or driven upon any of the alleys, streets, or public ground within the
City.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-3-4: LARGE REPTILES ALLOWED:
   No person shall knowingly and intentionally harbor, possess or keep large
reptiles, such as snakes, lizards, or tortoises that are capable of exceeding
twenty-five pounds (25 lbs.) at an adult age on any lot, premises or in any
structure, without first completing registration with the Animal Control
authorities so that a confidential list of locations may be recorded for public
safety needs. Contents of this list shall not be available for public review or
release without court order. For the purpose of this section, these reptiles
may include but are not limited to, the Burmese Python, African Rock Python,
Reticulated Python, Green Anaconda, Yellow Anaconda, Komodo Dragon, and African
Spurred-Thigh Tortoise. Nothing within this section shall allow for animals
prohibited by this Code.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
CHAPTER 4
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Dangerous Animals Prohibited
4-4-2: Animals Classified By Other Governmental Entities
4-4-3: Animal Bite
4-4-4: Investigation Authority And Dangerous Animal Designation
4-4-5: Confinement/Impoundment
4-4-6: Authority To Seize A Dangerous Animal
4-4-7: Hearing And Adjudication
4-4-8: Dangerous Animal Permit Required
4-4-9: Exceptions To Dangerous Animal Classification
4-4-10: Exception Of Certain Facilities
4-4-1: DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, possess or keep within
City limits any dangerous animal, as defined in Section
4-1-1 of this Title, except in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-4-2: ANIMALS CLASSIFIED BY OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, possess, keep or
maintain an animal which another governmental entity has determined to be
dangerous, except in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-4-3: ANIMAL BITE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, harborer, possessor, or keeper of
an animal to negligently allow or maintain any animal where it could bite a
person unless the animal has been subjected to provocation, or unless the
victim has been trespassing, as defined in Section
10-2-13 of this Code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, harborer, possessor, or keeper of
an animal to negligently allow or maintain any animal to bite, attack or kill
another animal unless the animal has been subjected to provocation or attack by
another animal, as defined in Section
4-1-1 of this Title.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, harborer, possessor, or keeper of
any animal which has the potential to transmit rabies, or for the victim, if
the victim is reasonably physically able, to fail to report an animal bite to
the Animal Welfare Center or 911 as soon as possible. Common animals that may
carry rabies include dogs, cats, bats, raccoons, ferrets, cattle, foxes,
wolves, coyotes, monkeys, and skunks.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowing the location of such an
animal to fail to inform the Animal Welfare Center of where the animal is
located if the owner, harborer, possessor, or keeper has given the animal away
or caused in any way the animal to be taken from his premises.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-4-4: INVESTIGATION AUTHORITY AND DANGEROUS ANIMAL DESIGNATION:
The Chief of Police, Animal Welfare Supervisor or authorized designee shall
investigate any incident appearing to involve a dangerous animal, or any
citizen compliant of a dangerous animal, or any impoundment of an animal
believed to be a dangerous animal. If the incident or impoundment meets the
criteria for classification of an animal as dangerous as defined in Section
4-1-1 of this Title, a citation shall be issued. Upon issuance of a citation,
any animal declared to be a dangerous animal not already impounded shall be
impounded and confined as set forth in this Title.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-4-5: CONFINEMENT/IMPOUNDMENT:
An animal that is impounded at the time of an incident or after an
investigation that resulted in the owner being charged with harboring or
possessing a dangerous animal shall be confined pending the disposition of the
animal. Such confinement shall be at the owner's expenses. Provided, however,
the animal may be confined in a licensed veterinary clinic, other licensed
facility, or confined at the home of the owner in accordance with Section
4-1-1 of this Title, at the discretion of the Animal Welfare Supervisor or
authorized authority.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-4-6: AUTHORITY TO SEIZE A DANGEROUS ANIMAL:
In addition to any other authority or procedure authorized by this Title or by
any other law to seize an animal, any law enforcement officer or Animal Welfare
Officer shall have the authority to immediately seize any animal when said
authority has cause to believe that an animal is dangerous or poses a serious
threat to public safety under the totality of the circumstances.
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, possessing or otherwise
maintaining an animal declared to be a dangerous animal to refuse to
immediately surrender the animal for confinement as outlined in Section
4-4-5 of this Title.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-4-7: HEARING AND ADJUDICATION:
If, after a citation is issued alleging an animal as a dangerous animal, as set
forth in Section
4-4-1 of this Title, the owner does not appear at the time for appearance, the
animal shall be deemed abandoned and subject to disposition pursuant to Section
4-2-5 herein. The hearing shall be set within ten (10) days of issuance of a
citation.
The Municipal Court Judge, upon a finding that the animal is a dangerous
animal, may cause the following:
   A.   Allow the animal to remain within the City limits under restrictions as
designated in this chapter;
   B.   Order the removal of the animal from the City limits; or
   C.   Order the destruction of the animal.
   Upon a second conviction, the Judge shall order the destruction of the
animal.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-4-8: DANGEROUS ANIMAL PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A dangerous animal may be kept within the City limits as long as the owner
or custodian complies with the requirements and conditions set forth below, as
well as any special conditions imposed by any animal control authority to
ensure the safety of the general public, to wit:
   A.   Permit. The owner shall acquire a dangerous animal permit for
possession of a dangerous animal within ten (10) days of the animal being
adjudicated as a dangerous animal. Animal control authorities shall inspect the
premises before any permit is issued. Any permit fee imposed shall be in
addition to all other required fees.
   B.   Confinement. All dangerous animals shall be securely confined (1)
indoors, or (2) in an enclosed or locked pen or physical structure upon the
premises of the owner. The pen or physical structure must meet the minimum
space requirements of at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet and must
have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. If no bottom is
secured to the side, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than
two feet (2'). The pen or physical structure must be capable of preventing the
entry of the general public, including children, and must be capable of
preventing the escape or release of the animal. Electronic containment devices
shall not be used to confine dangerous animal.
   C.   Leash and muzzle. The owner of a dangerous animal shall not allow the
animal to go outside of its kennel, pen or physical structure unless the animal
is muzzled, restrained by a leash sufficient to control the animal, and under
the physical control of an adult. The muzzle must not cause injury to the
animal or interfere with its vision or respiration but must prevent the animal
from biting any human or animal. A muzzle is not required if the animal is in
the owner's yard (front and/or back) enclosed by a fence that is capable of
preventing uninvited entry by other animals or people or is restrained by means
of a leash held by an adult.
   D.   Signs. The owner of a dangerous animal shall provide public notice of
the animal's presence on the premises by displaying a warning sign. The sign
shall be at least eight inches (8") by ten inches (10") in size, placed in a
prominent place on the owner's property, clearly visible from the public
highway or street. Similar signs shall be posted on the animal's kennel, pen or
enclosed structure.
   E.   Vaccinations and licenses. The owner of a dangerous animal shall file
proof to ensure that the animal remains current on any vaccinations or licenses
required by this Title or any other applicable laws or regulations.
   F.   Photographic identification. Within ten (10) days of the declaration of
an animal as dangerous, the owner or custodian shall provide animal control
authorities with two (2), four inches (4") by six inches (6") digital-quality
color photographs of such animal, clearly showing the color and approximate
size of the animal, or shall make the animal available for photographing by the
Animal Welfare Center or other appropriate Animal Control authorities.
   G.   Microchipping of animal. Upon conviction of a violation of this
section, the Judge of the Municipal Court shall order the owner, possessor,
harborer or keeper of such animal to have an identification microchip implanted
in such animal by a licensed veterinarian no later than fifteen (15) calendar
days after the conviction at the owner's expense. The owner, possessor,
harborer, or keeper shall file proof of microchipping, acceptable to the animal
control authorities no later than twenty (20) calendar days after conviction.
Failure of the owner, harborer, possessor or keeper of such animal to have the
microchip implanted in the animal or to file acceptable proof of microchipping,
within twenty (20) days after conviction, shall be punished as contempt of
court. Upon the commencement of contempt proceedings against the owner,
harborer, possessor or keeper of such animal, the Municipal Court shall issue
an ex parte order, at the owner's expense, directing animal control authorities
to seize the animal, which shall be held and shall not be released until the
conclusion of the contempt proceedings.
   H.   Liability Insurance. The owner must procure liability insurance
covering any injury or illness to persons or other animals caused by said
dangerous animal in the owner's care, custody or possession in the minimum
amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) at the owner's expense and
provide documentation thereof to animal control authorities.
   I.   Mandatory Notification. The owner or custodian of a dangerous animal
shall notify the animal control authorities immediately if the animal is
unconfined; at large; or has attacked a person or other animal.
   J.   Change of ownership. If the owner of a dangerous animal sells, gives
away, or otherwise transfers custody of the animal, the owner shall on the next
business day provide animal control authorities with written documentation
containing the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner or
custodian. The previous owner shall upon transferring ownership or custody
notify the new owner of the animal's designation as a dangerous animal. This
notice shall be in writing and a copy shall be provided to animal control
authorities. Upon being notified that a dangerous animal has been removed to
another jurisdiction, the animal control authorities are authorized, but not
required, to notify the appropriate governmental department in the jurisdiction
where the dangerous animal has been transferred and notify them that the animal
has been previously declared dangerous.
   K.   Civil and Criminal Penalties. It shall be unlawful for the owner or
custodian of a dangerous animal to fail to comply with the requirements and
conditions set forth in this section. Any animal found to be kept in violation
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished in accordance
with Section
1-1-8 and
1-1-9 of this Code. In addition, the animal at issue may be subject to seizure
and impoundment at the owner's expense and result in the revocation of the
dangerous animal permit for such animal. In the event of permit revocation, the
owner or custodian shall remove such animal from the City limits within twenty-
four (24) hours of receipt of the notice of revocation, or the animal shall be
humanely euthanized without further notice to the owner.
   L.   Exception: Dogs that are used regularly for law enforcement purposes
shall not be subject to this section but shall be confined and maintained in
accordance with the law enforcement agency's policy.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-4-9: EXCEPTIONS TO DANGEROUS ANIMAL CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Injury to Animals. No animal, whether or not it was confined on its
owner's property, shall be classified as a dangerous animal because of injuries
or death it has inflicted upon another domestic animal that, at the time, was
attacking the animal.
   B.   Injury to Persons. It is a defense to prosecution under Section
4-4-4 herein that the biting, attacking or death was sustained by a person who:
      1.   At the time was committing or attempting to commit a willful
trespass or other tort upon the property occupied by the owner of the animal;
      2.   Was attempting to or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
animal or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented,
abused, or assaulted the animal; or
      3.   Was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   C.   No Presumption of Dangerous Disposition. An animal which approaches a
person in an apparent attitude of attack, or which attacks or bites a person
upon command of the person in charge of the animal at the time of the incident
shall not, by reason of such incident, be automatically deemed to be in
violation of Section
4-4-4 herein. However, nothing shall limit the ability of animal control
authorities from all considering said circumstances in conjunction with other
facts in making said determination.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-4-10: EXCEPTION OF CERTAIN FACILITIES:
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any veterinary hospital or
zoo or other licensed facility where such animals are adequately cared for with
due regard for public health and safety.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
CHAPTER 5
DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Abandonment Of Cats And Dogs
4-5-2: Tethering
4-5-3: Confinement Of Dogs And Cats
4-5-4: Prohibition Of Dogs And Cats In Certain Areas
4-5-5: Vaccination Of Dogs And Cats
4-5-6: Number Of Dogs And/Or Cats Allowed
4-5-7: Sale Of Dogs Or Cats
4-5-8: Interference With Enforcement
4-5-9: Permitting Dogs Or Cats To Deposit Solid Waste Material On Places Open
To The Public Or On Certain Private Property Prohibited
4-5-1: ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS:
   No person shall abandon or desert their dog or cat or permit such animal to
become a stray. Any dog or cat found at-large not wearing any tag indicating
proof of current vaccination against rabies, or that the owner is a City
resident, shall be presumed abandoned, and will be impounded by the City. The
provisions of Section
4-2-6 with regard to owners shall also apply to abandoned animals.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-5-2: TETHERING:
   A.   Tethering Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or
cat to keep or maintain the animal on a tie-out, tether, picket, or similar
device consisting of a rope, cable, or other type of tether for any duration
unless continually supervised by its owner or other adult responsible for the
animal at the time. Exemptions in certain circumstances may be granted by
appropriate animal control authorities or law enforcement officer.
   B.   Conditions for Exemption. Any person who receives an exemption shall
ensure that the animal will not be on the tie-out, tether, picket, or similar
device for any duration under conditions which may reasonably threaten the
health or well-being of the animal. The owner of a dog or cat maintained on a
tether of any type shall properly fit the animal with a harness or collar to
which the tether shall be attached. The tether shall be of adequate length to
allow reasonable exercise, access to water, shelter, and shall not be subject
to entanglement with other objects in any manner that may cause the animal any
injury or clear discomfort or be of a weight disproportionate to the size of
the animal so tethered as to unduly burden the animal. Tethering dogs or cats
using chains or prong collars is prohibited. Tethering of an unsupervised dog
or cat is prohibited when the outside air temperature is not between thirty-
five and eighty-five degrees Fahrenheit (35°F - 85°F).
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-5-3: CONFINEMENT OF DOGS AND CATS:
   No person shall knowingly or unknowingly permit his or her dog to be at-
large anywhere within the City limits; and such dogs found at-large may be
impounded and/or the owner cited by the City.
   No person shall knowingly or unknowingly permit his or her cat to be at-
large unless the cat is altered, current on its vaccinations, as required in
this chapter, has a valid issued pet license, and has either a collar with a
valid City pet license attached or has a registered microchip containing
accurate and current information for the owner, notwithstanding that the cat
could still be determined to be a nuisance animal by its actions as defined in
Sections
4-1-1 and
4-5-9 of this code.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-5-4: PROHIBITION OF DOGS AND CATS IN CERTAIN AREAS:
Regulations pertaining to the prohibition and exceptions of live animals on the
premises of a food establishment, as established in Oklahoma Administrative
Code, 310:257-11-54 (Prohibiting Animals), shall be enforceable as if listed
entirely in this section.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-5-5: VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS:
   No person shall keep, harbor, or maintain any dog or cat over four months
old within the City without having first had that animal vaccinated against
rabies. Said vaccination shall be current as prescribed by the State Department
of Health Zoonotic Disease Control Rules, Title 310, Chapter 599.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-5-6: NUMBER OF DOGS AND/OR CATS ALLOWED:
   A.   Unaltered Animals. No person shall harbor or keep any dogs or cats if
any are unaltered that exceed the following:
      1.   More than two (2) dogs, more than six (6) months of age, may be kept
on any lot, premises or in any structure, or any combination thereof, without a
commercial, rescue, or private kennel license. No more than one litter of
puppies may be kept on any lot or premises or kept in any structure, without a
kennel license; or
      2.   More than three (3) domesticated cats, more than six (6) months of
age, may be kept on any lot, premises, or in any structure, or any combination
thereof, without a commercial, rescue, or private kennel license. Not more than
one litter of kittens may be kept on any lot or premises or kept in any
structure, without a kennel license.
   B.   Altered Animals. No person shall harbor, possess or keep dogs or cats
unless all have been altered that exceed the following:
      1.   More than four (4) dogs over the age of six (6) months of age on any
lot or premises or kept in any structure, or any combination thereof, without a
commercial, rescue, or private kennel license; or
      2.   More than six (6) cats over the age of six (6) months of age on any
lot or premises or kept in any structure, or any combination thereof, without a
commercial, rescue, or private kennel license.
   C.   Exceptions. Households functioning as a foster home for an Animal
Welfare Group registered with the City shall be granted an over limit exception
for up to six (6) months per dog or cat, not to exceed three (3) additional
dogs and/or five (5) additional cats beyond the number establishing kennel
license requirements effective upon filing written notification to the Animal
Welfare Center.
      If a complaint is made against a foster home, the owner and Animal
Welfare Group will be subject to a review as allowed for kennel licensed
location to review the circumstances and to provide for approval or denial of a
continued over limit exception at that location.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-5-7: SALE OF DOGS OR CATS:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer any animal for sale, or to
trade, exchange, barter or give away or to accept any animal on any property
not owned or rented by the seller or buyer or on any public curbsides,
roadsides, alleyways, streets, parks, or parking lots unless specifically
permitted by the City to do so.
   Animal Welfare Groups registered with and approved by the City are exempt
from the above section when conducting adoption events on property not owned by
the group with authorization from the property owner.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-5-8: INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT:
   No person shall interfere with, hinder, or molest an Animal Welfare Officer
or other employee of the Animal Welfare Center in the performance of any duty
of such agent, or seek to release any dog or cat in the custody of the Animal
Welfare Officer or Animal Welfare Center except as herein provided.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-5-9:    PERMITTING DOGS OR CATS TO DEPOSIT SOLID WASTE MATERIAL ON PLACES
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC OR ON CERTAIN PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or person having control of any
dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to defecate upon any sidewalk, public
park, street, alley, or other place open to the public, or on private property
without the permission of the owner thereof. In the event that the owner,
keeper, or person having control of any animal is unable to prevent the deposit
of fecal material in violation of this section, it shall be the duty of such
person to properly collect and dispose of such waste material within a
reasonable time and before leaving the immediate area.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
CHAPTER 6
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Cruelty To Animals
4-6-2: Transportation Of Animals In Open Areas Of Motor Vehicles
4-6-3: Animals Considered Nuisances
4-6-4:    Clean Enclosures And Pens Required
4-6-5:    Reporting Of Found Animals
4-6-1: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall maliciously:
      1.   Torture, cruelly beat, injure, maim, mutilate, or unjustly destroy
or kill any animal;
      2.   Deprive any animal in subjugation or captivity of food generally
accepted as being nutritious, potable drinking water, or adequate shelter;
      3.   Administer any poison or noxious drug or substance to any animal;
      4.   Expose any drug or substance with the intent that the same shall be
taken by an animal, whether such animal be the property of that owner or
another person;
      5.   Cause any other person to do any of the above items;
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any animal in any standing
or parked vehicle, box, container or other situation without providing for
adequate ventilation nor shall a person allow an animal to be exposed to
extreme temperature while confined in a vehicle, box, container or other
situation which would likely cause distress, harm or death to the animal;
   C.   It shall be unlawful to intentionally torment, harass, throw objects
at, verbally or physically confront any animal, whether confined or unconfined,
in a manner to cause unjustified agitation or injury to the animal;
   D.   No person shall cause an animal to be overloaded or forced to work in a
manner unsuitable to its species, breed, condition or health so as to cause
injury to the animal;
   E.   No person shall fail to provide or deprive any animal in their
possession, care, or control reasonable medical or necessary veterinary care if
the animal is sick, diseased, and/or injured;
   F.   It shall be unlawful to participate in, assist with, sell, transport or
otherwise allow any animal to be dyed, colored, or otherwise similarly altered
for the purposes as a promotional item, prize, or giveaway. This prohibition
shall in no way limit the actions of a commercial or private groomer, medical
care provider, or owner preparing an animal for a commonly recognized and
accepted competition or show event as long as the action is performed in a safe
and humane way that does not result in discomfort or injury to the animal;
   G.   It shall be unlawful to participate in, assist with, sell, transport or
otherwise allow any animal to be provided to another person as a promotional
item, or prize to be given away at any event, festival, carnival, or parade.
   H.   Authority to Confiscate Abused or Neglected Animals. Animal Welfare,
Police, or Fire Department Officials are hereby authorized to remove, impound
or take possession of any animal which has been treated in violation of
subsection (a) of this section.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-6-2: TRANSPORTATION OF ANIMALS IN OPEN AREAS OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
   It is unlawful on any roadway or highway within the City for the operator of
any open motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, pickup trucks and
flatbed trucks without a topper or any attached accessory such as an open
trailer, to transport an animal in the open area where the animal could
unintentionally fall, jump or be thrown from the vehicle and be injured or
killed.
   The animal shall be transported in the following manner:
   A.   Safely tethered where it cannot fall, jump or be thrown out of the open
area of the vehicle and the animal is safe from becoming tangled and causing
the animal to become chocked or injured; or
   B.   Enclosed in a carrier that is of adequate size and properly ventilated,
or in an approved transportation carrier designed for animals, and the
container is safely secured or attached to the vehicle.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-6-3: ANIMALS CONSIDERED NUISANCES:
   A.   No person shall own, keep, possess, or harbor any animal that is a
nuisance unless the animal is confined at the residence of the owner as
described in Section
4-1-1 herein or if off the premises outside the residence of the owner the
animal is at heel as described in said provision.
   B.   The Municipal Court Judge, upon a finding that the animal is a nuisance
animal, may order that the animal be confined on the premises of the owner, as
well as other measures as may be required to preserve the public peace and
welfare.
   C.   Subsequent violations. If there are three (3) convictions, pleas of
guilty or nolo contendere of violations of this section or Section
4-5-3 against the same animal within a twelve (12)-month period, then such
animal shall be ordered removed from the City limits or destroyed, at the
owner's option, within ten days of the order.
   D.   Noncompliance shall be a violation punishable as listed in Section
4-2-23 of this Title.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-6-4: CLEAN ENCLOSURES AND PENS REQUIRED:
   All pens or enclosures for animals shall be maintained in a clean condition
and be free of filth at all times. All manure shall be cleaned daily from the
pens, and, if kept in a manure pile, such shall be removed at least twice
weekly. Each pen and enclosure shall be sprayed with a suitable residual spray
as often as is necessary to control flies, insects, and noxious odors.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
4-6-5: REPORTING OF FOUND ANIMALS:
   Any person who takes possession of, keeps or harbors an animal that
reasonably appears to be at-large or stray shall make notification to the
animal shelter within seventy-two (72) hours. Such notification shall include a
complete and accurate description of the animal, when and where it was located,
where it is being housed, and contact information for the reporting person. The
person reporting the animal shall additionally ensure the animal is scanned for
a microchip or inspected for identifying markings by an animal shelter, medical
provider, or rescue.
(Ord. 1295, 2-13-2024)
TITLE 5
BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CODES
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Building Code Adopted; Revisions
5-1-2: Building And House Numbers
5-1-3: Violation; Penalty
5-1-4: Hotel And Motel Contractors
5-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; REVISIONS:
   A.   That a certain document, two (2) copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk of City of Seminole, being marked and designated as
the International Building Code, 2021 Edition, including all Appendix Chapters
as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Building Code of the City of Seminole, in the State of Oklahoma for regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition
of such structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Code on file in
the office of the City of Seminole are hereby referred to , adopted and made a
part thereof, as if filly set out in this legislation, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section 2 of this
ordinance.
   B.   The Following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. City of Seminole Section 1612.3. City of Seminole Section
1612.3. November 30, 2022.
   Section 1507.8, Wood Shingles. The installation of wood shingles in new
construction is prohibited unless the distance to adjacent structures is a
minimum of 30 feet. The installation of wood shingles shall comply with the
provisions of this section and table 1507.8.
   Section 1507.9, Wood Shakes. The installation of wood shakes in new
construction is prohibited unless the distance to adjacent structures is a
minimum of 30 feet. The installation of wood shakes shall comply with the
provisions of this section and table 1507.8.
   Section 1512, Reroofing, is amended by adding the following sections:
   Section 1512.1.1: Wood shingles and shakes shall not be permitted as roof
coverings on structures within the city. Existing wood shingle roofs may be
repaired using wood shingles when the area to be repaired is less than 25
percent of the existing total roof area. Exception: Wood shingles are allowed
when there is a 30-foot distance from adjacent structures.
   1512.1.2: Permit Requirements: The building official shall issue permits for
the replacement of all roofs for structures located within the city limits.
   C.   Exemptions to code:
      1.   The following shall be exempt from 2021 ICC Residential Building
Code R313, which requires sprinkler systems in all new homes:
         a.   Single family homes under four thousand five hundred (4,500)
square feet of living space;
         b.   Two-family homes with a two (2)-hour firewall separating dwelling
units;
         c.   Townhomes with more than two (2) ground level egress points with
dwelling units separated by two (2)-hour firewalls.
(Ord. 1181, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1274, 11-8-2022; Ord. 1291, 8-8-2023)
5-1-2: BUILDING AND HOUSE NUMBERS:
   All buildings and houses fronting on a public street are required to attach
to, or in front of, the building or house the correct number, as assigned by
the Building Department, the minimum size being three inches (3") in height and
visible from the street. (Ord. 1181, 9-8-2015)
5-1-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Any person found violating any provision of this title or the codes adopted
shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. 1181, 9-8-2015)
5-1-4: HOTEL AND MOTEL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   License Required: All general and subcontractors obtaining a permit for
the construction of hotel or motel space shall be licensed with the Office of
Community Development until June 1, 2023. General contractors and sub-
contractors must certify that all contractors will be licensed by the State of
Oklahoma and be in compliance with the Construction Industries Board.
   B.   License Required, Commercial: A commercial license shall be issued upon
verification of a current and valid registration through the Oklahoma
Construction Industries Board, unless exempt by said board regulations. A
commercial license shall be valid for construction of hotel or motel units
within the boundaries of the City of Seminole.
   C.   License Term And Fee:
      1.   Licenses shall be valid for up to one year and shall expire on May
31 of each year. The annual fee is as follows:
 
Hotel units $2,000.00 per unit
Motel units 1,000.00 per unit
 
   D.   License Suspension Or Revocation: The Director of Community Development
and/or the building inspector shall have the authority to suspend or revoke any
license for continuous violations of this title or for good cause shown. When
the revocation of any such license is to be considered, the contractor shall
have at least three (3) days' notice in writing of the time and place of a
revocation hearing, together with a statement of the grounds upon which it is
proposed to revoke such license.
   E.   Permits For The Construction Of A Hotel/Motel: A commercial building
permit shall be issued only to a licensed hotel/motel contractor as required by
this section.
   F.   Violation; Penalty: Any person found violating this provision of this
chapter, upon conviction, shall be punished in accordance with sections 1-1-
8 and
1-1-9 of this Code. (Ord. 1217, 4-10-2018)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE 1
SECTION:
5-2-1: Plumbing Code Adopted; Revisions
5-2-2: Permit And Fees
5-2-3: Licensing And Bonding Of Plumbers
5-2-4: Plumbing And Gas Contractors
 
Notes
1 1. See section 5-1-3 of this title for penalty provisions.
5-2-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED; REVISIONS:
   A.   That a certain document, two (2) copies of which are on file in the
office the City Clerk of the City of Seminole, being marked and designated as
the International Plumbing Code, 2021 Edition, including all Appendix Chapters,
as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Plumbing Code of the City of Seminole, in the State of Oklahoma regulating and
governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fee therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Plumbing Code
on file in the office of the City of Seminole are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this legislation, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection
B. of this section.
   B.   The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. City of Seminole.
   Section 106.6.2 Omit Schedule.
   Section106.6.3 Remove.
   Section 108.4. change to Section 115.4.
   Section 108.5. Remove.
   Section 109, Means of Appeal: Omit entire section and replace with Section
113.
   Section 715.1, change to Section 714.1, Sewage Backflow, and amend as
follows:
      A backwater valve shall be installed on all building sewers that connect
to the public sewer system. This shall be required for all new construction and
on existing buildings as sewer lines are repaired or replaced.
   Section 715.5, change to 714.3, Location, and amend to read as follows:
      Backwater valves shall be installed so that access is provided to the
working parts for service and repair. If installed under concrete or asphalt
paving (i.e., sidewalks, driveways or parking areas), backwater valves shall be
installed in a permanent box or access enclosure whose lid is flush with grade.
If installed under soil or ground cover vegetation, a backwater valve shall be
installed in a permanent box or access enclosure whose lid is flush with grade
or above.
   Section 305.4.1. Insert "18 inches for sewer line depth" Section 903.1.
Insert "36 inches". (Ord. 1182, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1280, 11-8-2022)
5-2-2: PERMIT AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required; Payment Of Fee: Before any work is commenced on any
job which is governed by the provisions of this chapter, a permit shall be
obtained from the community services office. The fees for such permits shall be
as set by the city council from time to time by motion or resolution. A copy of
the current fee schedule shall be kept in the office of the city clerk.
   B.   Property Owner Performing Work: Nothing in this code shall prohibit a
property owner from performing plumbing work on his primary residence of
record. This provision shall not be construed to allow the property owner to
forgo the requirements of obtaining a lawful permit or to hire unlicensed
persons to perform plumbing work. (Ord. 1182, 9-8-2015)
5-2-3: LICENSING AND BONDING OF PLUMBERS:
   The sections of the plumbing code governing licensing and bonding of
plumbers are hereby amended as follows:
   A.   General: Before any person, firm or corporation shall engage in the
plumbing business, he shall be qualified as set forth herein, and a license
shall be obtained from the city and state as required. Where any plumbing work
is being done, a master or journeyman plumber shall at all times be present on
the job, and in actual control, and in charge of the work being done.
   B.   Qualification Of Plumbers: Any person who desires to enter the plumbing
business or offers plumbing services shall appear before the governing
authority to satisfy the governing authority as to his competency to enter the
plumbing business.
   C.   Issuance Of License: Licenses shall be obtained from the proper
municipal authority upon proof of compliance with state licensing requirements.
   D.   Illegal Work, Revocation Of License:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the plumbing business
whose work does not conform to the rules and regulations hereinafter set out,
or whose workmanship or materials are of inferior quality, shall, upon notice
from the plumbing official, make necessary changes or corrections at once so as
to conform to this code. If work has not been so changed after ten (10) days'
notice from the plumbing official, the plumbing official shall then refuse to
issue any more permits until such work has fully complied with the rules and
regulations of this chapter.
      2.   The plumbing official shall have the authority to revoke any license
for continuous violations of this title or for good cause shown.
      3.   When the revocation of any such license is to be considered, the
person, firm, company, association, or corporation to whom the license has been
issued shall have at least three (3) days' notice in writing of the time and
place of a revocation hearing, together with a statement of the grounds upon
which it is proposed to revoke such license.
   E.   Allowing Permit To Be Obtained Fraudulently: No person, firm or
corporation engaged in the business of plumbing shall allow his or its name to
be used by any other person, firm or corporation, directly or indirectly, to
obtain a permit, or for the construction of any work under his or its name,
license or bond; nor shall he or it make any misrepresentations or omissions in
his or its returns.
   F.   City Authority Regarding Applicability Of Provisions: The provisions of
this title and the 2015 international plumbing code are not mutually exclusive
and the municipal authority shall have the ability to elect the applicable
provision so long as the general health, safety and welfare of the public are
considered. (Ord. 1182, 9-8-2015)
5-2-4: PLUMBING AND GAS CONTRACTORS:
   A.   License Required; Fees: There is hereby required a license to be issued
by the community services director to each person, firm or corporation, before
he engages in the activity of a plumbing and/or gas contractor. The annual fee
for such license shall be payable in advance in the sum of two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the first year and payable in advance in the sum of fifty dollars
($50.00) for each subsequent year. The license shall be renewed within the
thirty (30) days before expiration upon payment of fifty dollars ($50.00) and
shall be issued for the fiscal year starting July 1. No plumbing and/or gas
contractor shall do business in the city until he first obtains the license and
meets the state licensing requirements and all bonding requirements.
   B.   Contractor Responsibilities: Each contractor will be assessed an
additional fee of ten dollars ($10.00) annually for each journeyman and
apprentice employed by the contractor and performing work within the corporate
limits of the city. The contractor will be required to provide the name and
state license number of each journeyman and/or apprentice so employed. The
contractor will be responsible to notify the community services office of any
changes in licensed employees within ten (10) days. (Ord. 1182, 9-8-2015)
CHAPTER 3
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Fuel Gas Code Adopted; Revisions
5-3-1: FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED; REVISIONS:
   A.   That a certain document, two (2) copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of Seminole, being marked and designated
as the International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 Edition, including all Appendix
Chapters, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the City of Seminole, in the State of Oklahoma
for regulating and governing fuel gas systems and gas-fired appliances as
herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Fuel Gas Code on file in the office of the City of
Seminole are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B. of this chapter.
   B.   The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1 City of Seminole.
   Section 106.6.2 Omit schedule.
   Section 106.6.3 Remove.
   Section 108.4 change to Section 115.4.
   Section 108.5 change to Section 115.4.
   Section 109, Means of Appeal: Omit entire section and replace with Section
113. (Ord. 1183, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1281, 11-8-2022)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-4-1: Mechanical Code Adopted; Revisions
5-4-2: Compliance With Code
5-4-3: Licensing Requirements
5-4-4: Illegal Work, Revocation Of City License
5-4-5: Permit And Fees
5-4-6: Gas Piping
5-4-7: Penalty
5-4-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED; REVISIONS:
   A.   That a certain document, two (2) copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of Seminole, being marked and designated
as the International Mechanical Code, 2021 edition, including all Appendix
Chapters, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Mechanical Code of the City of Seminole, in the State of
Oklahoma regulating and governing the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Mechanical Code on file with the office of the
City of Seminole are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this legislation, with the addition, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B. of this section.
   B.   The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Seminole.
   Section 106.5.2. Remove.
   Section 106.5.3. Remove.
   Section 108.4. change to Section 115.4.
   Section 108.5 Omit entire section and replace with Section 114.
   Section 202 Insert the following definitions:
      BOARD: The Oklahoma construction industries board.
      CITY: The city of Seminole.
      COMMITTEE: The committee of mechanical examiners.
      DEPARTMENT: The Oklahoma construction industries board.
      GAS PIPING: Means and includes all natural gas piping to the nearest
connection within or adjacent to any building, structure, or conveyance on the
premises.
      MECHANICAL APPRENTICE OR APPRENTICE: Any person sixteen (16) years of age
or older whose principal occupation is learning mechanical work on the job
under the direct supervision of a journey tractor.
      MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR OR CONTRACTOR: Any person engaged in the business
of planning, contracting, supervising or furnishing labor or labor and
materials for mechanical work.
      MECHANICAL FIRM: Any corporation, partnership, association,
proprietorship or other business entity which plans or engages, or offers to
engage, in mechanical work for another within this state.
      MECHANICAL JOURNEYMAN OR JOURNEYMAN: Any person other than a contractor
or apprentice who engages in mechanical work.
      MECHANICAL WORK: The installation, maintenance, repair, or renovation, in
whole or in part, of any heating system, cooling system, mechanical
refrigeration system or ventilation system or any equipment or material
including process piping used in the installation, maintenance, repair, or
renovation of such systems; provided that minor repairs are excluded.
(Ord. 1184, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1278, 11-8-2022)
5-4-2: COMPLIANCE WITH CODE:
   No person, on behalf of himself or of a mechanical firm, shall engage or
offer to engage in, by advertisement or otherwise, any mechanical work as a
journeyman or contractor who does not possess a valid and appropriate license
from the Oklahoma state department of health and the city. No business entity
shall act as a mechanical firm unless a contractor is associated with and
responsible for complying with the provisions of this chapter and all
mechanical work of such entity. (Ord. 1184, 9-8-2015)
5-4-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   For contractors, journeymen and apprentices:
   A.   State License, Bond And Insurance: Any person, firm or corporation
operating as a mechanical contractor, mechanical journeyman or mechanical
apprentice in a mechanical firm shall make application, take examinations,
provide bond, liability insurance and be licensed through the state as outlined
in the mechanical licensing act, dated November 1, 1987, or current law.
   B.   City Requirements:
      1.   A city license to operate within the corporate limits of the city
will be issued to mechanical contractors upon verification of a state
mechanical contractor's license. The city license fee for mechanical
contractors shall be the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first
year's license. The annual renewal fee thereafter shall be the sum of fifty
dollars ($50.00). Such licenses shall be issued at the community services
office, and shall expire on June 30. Such licenses shall be renewed within the
thirty (30) days before the expiration of the then current license.
      2.   Each contractor will be assessed an additional fee of ten dollars
($10.00) annually for each journeyman and apprentice employed by the contractor
and performing work within the corporate limits of the city. The contractor
will be required to provide the name and state license number of each
journeyman and/or apprentice so employed. The contractor will be responsible to
notify the community services office of any changes in licensed employees
within ten (10) days.
      3.   No licenses required by this chapter may be assigned or transferred
to another. (Ord. 1184, 9-8-2015)
5-4-4: ILLEGAL WORK, REVOCATION OF CITY LICENSE:
   A.   Notice To Rectify Nonconformances: Any person, firm or corporation
engaged in the mechanical business whose work does not conform to the rules and
regulations hereinafter set out, or whose workmanship or materials are of
inferior quality, shall, upon notice from the mechanical official, make
necessary changes or corrections at once so as to conform to the mechanical
code. If work has not been so changed after ten (10) days' notice from the
mechanical official, the mechanical official shall then refuse to issue any
more permits until such work has fully complied with the rules and regulations
of the mechanical code.
   B.   Revocation Of License: The mechanical official shall have the authority
to revoke any license for continuous violations of this title or for good cause
shown. When the revocation of any such license is to be considered, the person,
firm, company, association, or corporation to whom the license has been issued
shall have at least three (3) days' notice in writing of the time and place of
a revocation hearing, together with a statement of the grounds upon which it is
proposed to revoke such license.
   C.   File Complaint With State Hearing Board: The mechanical official may
file a written complaint with the state mechanical hearing board for a hearing
to revoke a mechanical firm's state mechanical license. When the revocation of
any such license is to be considered at any meeting, the person, firm, company,
association or corporation to whom the license has been issued shall have at
least three (3) days' notice in writing of the time and place of such meeting,
together with a statement of the grounds upon which it is proposed to revoke
such license. (Ord. 1184, 9-8-2015)
5-4-5: PERMIT AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required; Payment Of Fee: Before any work is commenced on any
job which is governed by the provisions of this chapter, a permit shall be
obtained from the community services office. The fees for such permits shall be
as set by the city council from time to time by motion or resolution. A copy of
the current fee schedule shall be kept in the office of the city clerk.
   B.   Exception To Permit Requirement: A permit shall not be required for the
installation, alteration or repairing of self- contained unit systems in
residential or commercial occupancies which are the type designed to be plugged
into receptacle outlets. No permit fees are required for window air
conditioners.
   C.   Purchase Of Permit Restricted: Only a licensed air conditioning,
heating or refrigeration contractor or his authorized personnel of the company
shall purchase a permit.
   D.   Minor Repairs: Neither a permit nor license shall be required for a
person who is the property owner of record, or his authorized representative,
when performing minor repair, which shall include, but not be limited to,
cleaning, adjusting, calibrating, replacement of fuses and room thermostats and
other repairs which shall not include any repair which could violate the safe
operation of the equipment.
   E.   Public Utilities: A permit and license shall be required from public
utilities, public service corporations, rural electric associations, or
municipal utilities and their subsidiaries for major repair and new
installations. Neither a permit nor license shall be required during the
performance of energy audits, operational inspections, minor maintenance or
minor repairs for their customers. (Ord. 1184, 9-8-2015)
5-4-6: GAS PIPING:
   No person shall install, replace or repair gas piping unless such person is
licensed to do gas piping under the mechanical licensing act or is licensed as
a plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber pursuant to the laws of this state.
(Ord. 1184, 9-8-2015)
5-4-7: PENALTY:
   Any person, firm or corporation or agent who shall violate a provision of
the mechanical code or fail to comply therewith or with any of the provisions
thereof, or violate a detailed statement or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, shall be guilty of a separate offense for each day or portion
thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of the mechanical
code is committed or continued, and, upon conviction thereof, in the municipal
court for any such violation, such person shall be punished as provided in
section 1-1-8 of this code. (Ord. 1184, 9-8-2015)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-5A-1: Electrical Code Adopted
5-5A-2: Electric Wiring Defined
5-5A-3: Inside Wiring
5-5A-4: Violation; Penalty
5-5A-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
That a certain document, two (2) copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk of the City of Seminole, being marked and designated as the NFPA
70 National Electrical Code, 2020 edition including all Appendix Chapters, as
published by the National Fire Protection Agency, be and is hereby adopted as
the Electrical Code of the City of Seminole, in the State of Oklahoma,
regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Fire Code
on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this legislation, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section
5-5A-2 of this section. (Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1279, 11-8-2022)
5-5A-2: ELECTRIC WIRING DEFINED:
"Electric wiring", as used in this chapter means the installation of electrical
conductors or apparatus of any nature to be connected to light, heat or power
service, except lines and regulation of electricity, and remaining the property
of the service company. (Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
5-5A-3: INSIDE WIRING:
All electrical wiring hereafter installed in all buildings shall be installed
according to the currently adopted NEC regulations, and contain a main switch
of proper size, not smaller than two hundred (200) ampere capacity. (Ord. 1188,
9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1228, 2-12-2019)
5-5A-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter either by doing that
which is prohibited or by failing or refusing to do that which is commanded, is
guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
ARTICLE B. PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS 1
SECTION:
5-5B-1: Electrical Inspector
5-5B-2: Electric Wiring Permit
5-5B-3: Permit And Inspection Fees
5-5B-4: Temporary Permits, Refusal
5-5B-5: Wiring Inspection
5-5B-6: Unsafe Or Defective Wiring
5-5B-7: Wiring Changes; Notice Required
 
Notes
1 1. See section 5-5A-4 of this chapter for penalty provisions.
5-5B-1: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
   The electrical inspector shall be appointed by the city manager. His duties
shall include enforcement of the electrical code and regulations. (Ord. 1188,
9-8-2015)
5-5B-2: ELECTRIC WIRING PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall do, or cause to
be done, any interior or exterior electrical wiring, or any electrical
construction, electrical installation or alteration of any electrical wiring,
apparatus or fixtures within the city without first having obtained an
electrical construction permit number for the work from the community services
office. A permit for such work shall not be issued to any person, firm or
corporation that has failed to comply with the provisions of the ordinances of
the city. Permits to do electrical work shall be issued only to licensed
electrical contractors. Permits shall not be required for maintenance work or
for repair work if the maintenance and repair work do not require alteration or
rearrangement of electrical installation. Permits shall not be required for
electric wiring or alterations in existing wiring to central stations, power
houses and substations belonging to the electric service company operating
under a franchise.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applicants for permits, as required herein,
shall, prior to doing any work requiring a permit, call the community services
office of the city, and give the name of the electrical contractor who is to do
such work and the address where the work is to be done.
   C.   Failure To Obtain Permit:
      1.   Double Fee: Any electrical contractor who proceeds to do work herein
described requiring a permit without following the provisions of this section
shall be assessed double the amount of the fee which should have been paid,
which sum shall be deducted from his bond if not otherwise paid.
      2.   Cessation Of Work: If the electrical inspector of the city or any of
his assistants finds electrical work in progress on any job for which no
electrical construction permit has been issued, he shall immediately order all
such electrical work to cease, and any person who thereafter does electrical
work on such job before an electrical construction permit has been issued
therefor shall be guilty of an offense. (Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
5-5B-3: PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES:
   Before any work is commenced on any job which is governed by the provisions
of this chapter, a permit shall be obtained from the community services office.
The fees for such permits shall be as set by the city council from time to time
by motion or resolution. A copy of the current fee schedule shall be kept in
the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
5-5B-4: TEMPORARY PERMITS, REFUSAL:
   When for good and sufficient reasons at the discretion of the city
electrical inspector, it appears necessary, and he may issue permits for
connection to unfinished or defective wiring for a period of time not to exceed
thirty (30) days; otherwise, no electric light or power company shall connect
to any installation of any kind whatsoever until furnished with the certificate
of inspection from the electrical inspector; provided further, that the
electric light or power companies shall, upon written notice from the
electrical inspector, disconnect from any service designated by the notice from
the city electrical inspector stating any defects or faults, until the defects
or faults have been corrected. (Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
5-5B-5: WIRING INSPECTION:
   A.   Permittee Notify Inspector: It shall be the responsibility of the
person obtaining the permit for each respective job to notify the electrical
inspector upon the completion of the temporary pole or services, temporary,
final or "roughing in" work for inspection as well as the completed job for
final inspection. The electrical inspector, having received such notice, must
inspect, or cause to be inspected by a qualified representative, any electric
wiring within the city.
   B.   Notice By Inspector To Permittee: After inspecting the electrical
wiring of any building, the inspector shall leave notice in the form of a tag
or label attached to the service entrance switch. This notice shall clearly
state whether the wiring is approved or is to be kept open for corrections, and
no person shall seal or conceal any electrical wiring until such wiring has
been approved. If in any case the wiring is in such a position as to interfere
with the completion of the building as called for in the plans, the wiring
contractor must be notified to have it changed. (Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
5-5B-6: UNSAFE OR DEFECTIVE WIRING:
   The electrical inspector shall have the authority to make special rulings,
when circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life and property and
improvement of electrical installations. Whenever any electrical wiring or
equipment is found by the electrical inspector to be unsafe or defective, he
shall notify the owner or person in control thereof to repair or remove the
same; and upon the owner's failure to comply within such time as the electrical
inspector shall specify, the inspector shall cause service to be discontinued.
(Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
5-5B-7: WIRING CHANGES; NOTICE REQUIRED:
   When any alterations or changes are made in the wiring of any building or
any new wires are installed, it shall be the responsibility of the person,
partnership or corporation doing or having such work done to first obtain a
permit from the building department and to notify the inspector in writing
immediately after the completion of the work. The inspector shall then inspect
the work as herein provided. (Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
ARTICLE C. LICENSING 1
SECTION:
5-5C-1: License Required
5-5C-2: License And Fee
5-5C-3: Exemption To Licensing Requirements
5-5C-4: Illegal Work; Revocation Of License
 
Notes
1 1. See section 5-5A-4 of this chapter for penalty provisions.
5-5C-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   All persons, firms, partnerships, corporations, or individuals engaged or
hereafter engaging in the business of installing electric wiring or lighting
fixtures of any nature, in or on any building within the corporate limits of
the city, shall procure from the building official a license, which license
obtained and so long as in force, shall entitle the holder thereof to install
electric wiring for the transmission of electric energy for light, heat, or
power. (Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
5-5C-2: LICENSE AND FEE:
   A.   Contractors: The annual fee for such contractor license to each person,
firm, or corporation shall be in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for the first year upon satisfying the governing authority as to his competency
to enter the electrical contracting business. The annual fee for subsequent
years shall be in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) and shall be issued for a
fiscal year starting July 1. A public service corporation operating under a
regular franchise shall be exempt from the requirements of this section insofar
as the same affects property owned or controlled by them. No electrical
contractor shall do business in the city until he first obtains the appropriate
state license and meets state licensing and bond requirements.
   B.   Journeymen And Apprentices: Each contractor will be assessed an
additional fee of ten dollars ($10.00) annually for each journeyman and
apprentice employed by the contractor and performing work within the corporate
limits of the city. The contractor will be required to provide the name and
state license number of each journeyman and/or apprentice so employed. The
contractor will be responsible to notify the community services office of any
changes in licensed employees within ten (10) days. (Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
5-5C-3: EXEMPTION TO LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
A public utility electric service corporation, operating under a regular
franchise, shall be exempted from the requirements of obtaining a license or
registering, insofar as the same affects property owned or controlled by it.
(Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
5-5C-4: ILLEGAL WORK; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the electrical business whose
work does not conform to the rules and regulations herein set out, or whose
workmanship or materials are of inferior quality, shall, on notice from the
electrical official, make necessary changes or corrections at once so as to
conform to the electrical code. If work has not been so changed after ten (10)
days' notice from the electrical official, the electrical official shall then
refuse to issue any more permits until such work has fully complied with the
rules and regulations of the electrical code. The electrical official may
appear before the governing authority and request that all licenses be revoked
because of continuous violations. When the revocation of any such license is to
be considered at any meeting, the person, firm, company, association or
corporation to whom the license has been issued shall have at least three (3)
days' notice in writing of the time and place of such meeting, together with a
statement of the grounds upon which it is proposed to revoke such license.
(Ord. 1188, 9-8-2015)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
5-6-1: Residential Code Adopted; Revisions
5-6-2: Residential Building Permits
5-6-3: Residential Contractors
5-6-4: Exemptions
5-6-5: Violation; Penalty
5-6-6: Roofing Contractors
5-6-1: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED; REVISIONS:
   A.   That a certain document, two (2) copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of Seminole, being marked and designated
as the International Residential Code, 2021 edition, including all Appendix
Chapters (see International Residential Code Section R102.5, 2021 edition), as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Residential Code of the City of Seminole, in the State of Oklahoma for
regulating and governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement,
replacement, repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached
one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses)
not more than threes stories in height with separate means of egress as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Residential Code on file with the office of the
City of Seminole are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this ordinance, with the addition, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in division B. of this section.
   B.   The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section R101.1. Insert: City of Seminole.
   Section P2603.5.1 Insert: 18 inches for sewer line depth in two places.
   Section R905.7, Wood Shingles. The installation of wood shingles in new
construction is prohibited unless the distance to adjacent structures is a
minimum of 30 feet. The installation of wood shingles shall comply with the
provisions of this section and table R905.7.4.
   Section R905.8, Wood Shakes. The installation of wood shakes in new
construction is prohibited unless the distance to adjacent structures is a
minimum of 30 feet. The installation of wood shakes shall comply with the
provisions of this section and table R905.8.5.
   Section R908, Reroofing, is amended by adding the following sections:
   Section R908.1.3: Wood shingles and shakes shall not be permitted as roof
coverings on structures within the City. Existing wood shingle roofs may be
repaired using wood shingles when the area to be repaired is less than 25
percent of the existing total roof area. Wood shingles are allowed then there
is a 30-foot distance from adjacent structures.
   Section R908.1.4: Permit Requirements: The building official shall issue
permits for the replacement and recovering of all roofs for structures located
within City limits. (Ord. 1185, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1275, 11-8-2022)
5-6-2: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permits: A residential building permit shall be issued only to a
residential contractor licensed as required in this chapter or to the owner or
lessee of the residential structure, if said owner or lessee is personally
completing the work.
   B.   Definition: For the purposes of this provision, a "residential building
permit" shall refer to any permit for new construction, renovation,
reconstruction or addition to any one- or two-family structure, including
attached garages. Specifically excluded are carports, patio covers, storage
buildings, accessory buildings, pools and fences. Nothing contained within this
chapter shall serve to supersede or lessen the application of any provisions
related to residential construction set forth within the City's adopted
Building Codes. (Ord. 1114, 4-13-2010, eff. 4-13-2010)
5-6-3: RESIDENTIAL CONTRACTORS:
   A.   License Required: Residential contractors shall be licensed with the
Office of Community Services before obtaining a residential building permit as
required by this chapter. License shall be subject to the approval of the
Director of Community Services and license shall not be issued until the
contractor has provided proof of general liability insurance coverage in the
amount required by the Oklahoma Construction Industries Board for licensed
contractors. In addition contractors must provide proof of workers'
compensation insurance coverage or exemption thereof.
   B.   License Term And Fee: Licenses shall be valid for up to one year and
shall expire on April 30 of each year. The annual fee for residential
contractors shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). Fees shall not be prorated
for licenses issued throughout the year.
   C.   License Suspension Or Revocation: The Director of Community Services
and/or the building inspector shall have the authority to suspend or revoke any
license for continuous violations of this title or for good cause shown. When
the revocation of any such license is to be considered, the contractor shall
have at least three (3) days' notice in writing of the time and place of a
revocation hearing, together with a statement of the grounds upon which it is
proposed to revoke such license. (Ord. 1114, 4-13-2010, eff. 4-13-2010)
5-6-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a property owner or lessee from
performing work on his own property, nor shall this chapter require a property
owner performing work on his own property to obtain a residential contractor's
license. This provision shall not be construed to allow the owner or lessee to
forego the requirements of obtaining a lawful permit or to hire unlicensed
persons to perform work as required in this title. (Ord. 1114, 4-13-2010, eff.
4-13-2010)
5-6-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter or the codes
adopted shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of
this Code. (Ord. 1114, 4-13-2010, eff. 4-13-2010)
5-6-6: ROOFING CONTRACTORS:
   A.   License Required, Residential: Roofing contractors shall be licensed
with the Office of Community Development before obtaining a permit as required
by this section. Before a license is issued, contractor shall possess a current
and valid registration and endorsement (unless exempt) by the Roofing
Contractor Registration Act 1  and be in compliance with the Rules of the
Oklahoma Construction Industries Board (title 158 chapter 85).
   B.   License Required, Commercial: A commercial license shall be issued upon
verification of a current and valid registration as required by the Roofing
Contractor Registration Act 2  and a commercial roofing endorsement through the
Oklahoma Construction Industries Board, unless exempt by said board
regulations. A commercial license shall be valid for residential and commercial
roof construction and replacement.
   C.   License Term And Fee: Licenses shall be valid for up to one year and
shall expire on April 30 of each year. The annual fee is as follows:
 
Residential roofing contractor $25.00 per year
Commercial roofing contractor  50.00 per year
 
   Fees shall not be prorated for licenses issued throughout the year.
   D.   License Suspension Or Revocation: The Director of Community Development
and/or the building inspector shall have the authority to suspend or revoke any
license for continuous violations of this title or for good cause shown. When
the revocation of any such license is to be considered, the contractor shall
have at least three (3) days' notice in writing of the time and place of a
revocation hearing, together with a statement of the grounds upon which it is
proposed to revoke such license.
   E.   Permits: A roofing permit shall be issued only to a licensed roofing
contractor as required in this section, or, to the owner or lessee of a
residential structure, if said owner or lessee is personally completing the
work. Any owner or lessee personally engaged in such work shall provide written
verification to the Office of Community Development prior to obtaining a
permit.
   F.   Violation; Penalty: Any person found violating this section shall, upon
conviction, be punished in accordance with sections 1-1-8 and
1-1-9 of this Code. (Ord. 1208, 2-13-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 59 OS § 1151 et seq.
2 2. 59 OS § 1151 et seq.
CHAPTER 7
LIFE SAFETY AND FIRE CODES 1
SECTION:
5-7-1: Codes Adopted
5-7-2: Fire Code Revisions
5-7-3: Geographic Limits
 
Notes
1 1. See section 5-1-3 of this title for penalty provisions; see also title 13,
  chapter 4 of this code for fire prevention regulations.
5-7-1: CODES ADOPTED:
That a certain document, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Seminole, being marked and designated as the
International Fire Code, 2021 edition, and the NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, 2021
edition including all Appendix Chapters (see International Fire Code Section
101.2.1, 2021 edition), as published by the International Code Council, be and
is hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the City of Seminole, in the State of
Oklahoma, regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property from
fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of
hazardous substance4s, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to
life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Fire Code on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this legislation, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section
5-7-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1187, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1282, 11-8-2022)
5-7-2: FIRE CODE REVISIONS:
That the following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1 Insert City of Seminole.
   Section 109.47 change to Section 112.4.
   Section 111.4 change to Section 112.4 and remove $100.00.
(Ord. 1187, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1282, 11-8-2022)
5-7-3: GEOGRAPHIC LIMITS:
That the geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the 2021
International Fire Code are hereby established as follows:
   Section 5704.2.9.6.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and
Class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited).
   Section 5706.2.4.4 (geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and
Class H liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited).
   Section 5806.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of flammable
cryogenic fluids in stationary containers is prohibited).
   Section 6104.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted for the protection of heavily populated or
congested areas). (Ord. 1187, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1282, 11-8-2022)
CHAPTER 8
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
5-8-1: Property Maintenance Code Adopted; Revisions
5-8-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED; REVISIONS:
   A.   That a certain document, two (2) copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of Seminole, being marked and designated
as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 edition, as published by
the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Seminole, in the State of Oklahoma for
regulating and governing the conditions essential to ensure that structures are
safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Residential Code on file
with the office of the City of Seminole are hereby referred to, adopted, and
made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this ordinance, with the addition,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B. of this
section.
   B.   The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Seminole.
   Section 103.5. Insert: Delete section.
   Section 111 Means of Appeal: Omit entire section and replace with Section
107.
   Section 302.4. Weeds - insert 'twelve (12) inches'.
   Section 304.14. Insect screens - insert 'January l' and 'December 31'.
   Section 602.3. Heating Facilities - insert 'January 1' and 'December 31'.
   Section 602.4. Occupiable Work Spaces - insert 'January 1' and 'December
31'.
(Ord. 1186, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1277, 11-8-2022)
CHAPTER 9
OIL AND GAS DRILLING
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Drilling Permits Required
5-9-3: Bond And Insurance
5-9-4: Casing
5-9-5: Earthen Retaining Wall
5-9-6: Earthen Slush Pits
5-9-7: Premises Maintained
5-9-8: Reserve Pits And Mud Circulation In Sportsman's Lake Area
5-9-9: Safety Devices And Practices
5-9-10: Storage Tanks
5-9-11: Tubing
5-9-12: Fees
5-9-13: Penalty; Nuisance Declared
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall, for the
purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section, except where the context otherwise requires:
   CIRCULATING MUD PIT: The working pit from which drilling muds are
continually recirculated during the drilling process into and from the drilling
hole for the purpose of flushing therefrom the drill bit cuttings and as a
lubricant to reduce torque, drag, heat, friction, and differential sticking
during the drilling process.
   DISPOSAL WELL: Any well drilled or actually used for injection of salt water
or other substances into the earth at a point other or different than the point
of extraction or production thereof from the earth.
   MUD: The drilling fluid used and recirculated through the drilling hole as a
lubricant to reduce torque, drag, heat, friction, and differential sticking and
to flush drill bit cuttings from the hole during the drilling process.
   MUD PROGRAM: The planning usage of drilling fluid lubricants, specifying
with particularity the type, name and physical and chemical composition and the
characteristics of all ingredients thereof, together with such laboratory and
other technical data as may be necessary or required by the community services
office to evaluate the same as pollutive, deleterious or otherwise.
   OIL OR GAS WELL: Any well drilled, operated or maintained for the production
of oil, gas, casing head gas, or any of them, or their byproducts or
derivatives. Included in this term are water wells drilled for the purpose of
providing a source or a location for the injection of water, either fresh water
or salt water, into the ground to stimulate the production of oil, gas, casing
head gas, or any of them or their byproducts or derivatives.
   RESERVE PIT: Any excavation, pit, or receptacle designed or actually used to
receive, store, or hold rocks, drill bit cuttings, shale, sand, fresh water, or
drilling mud that contains no salt water, oil, oil derivatives, caustics,
acids, or other deleterious substances harmful to soil, vegetation, or
injurious to animal or human life.
   SLUSH PIT: Any excavation, pit, or receptacle designed or actually used to
receive, store, or hold waste oil, oil derivatives, sand, salt water, or other
waste products, or deleterious substances produced or used in the drilling,
swabbing, cleaning, or reworking of any oil, gas, or disposal well.
   SPORTSMAN'S LAKE AREA: Means and includes that land encompassed by the
following legal description:
S/2 NE/4; NE/4 NE/4; NW/4 NE/4 of section 28-T9N-R7E;
N/2 and the SE/4 and the N/2 of NW/4 of SW/4 and E/2 of SW/4 of section 34-T9N-
R7E;
N/2 of NE/4 and E/2 of SE/4 of NE/4 and E/2 of W/2 of SE/4 of NE/4 of section
33-T9N-R7E;
W/2 of NW/4; and NW/4 SW/4; and starting at the Southeast corner of the SW/4,
thence West 50' to the point of beginning, thence North 686.8', thence North
49o00' West a distance of 810.9', thence North 1421.2', thence West 660',
thence South 1320', thence West 1320', thence South 1320', thence East 2590',
to the point of beginning; all in section 35-T9N-R7E;
   Lot 3 and Lot 1 of section 3-T8N-R7E;
N/2 of N/2 of SW/4 of NW/4; and Lot 4 less and except a tract or parcel
described as follows: beginning at the NE corner of said Lot 4, thence South a
distance of 547.6' to the point of beginning, thence North 87o22', West a
distance of 281.7', thence South 30o38' West a distance of 146.9'; thence South
4o22' West a distance of 276', thence South 61o24' East a distance of 429.8',
thence North 596.4' to the point of beginning; and the North 20 acres of Lot 3;
and the S/2 N/2 SW/4 of NW/4; all in section 2-T8N-R7E;
   NW/4 of SE/4; and beginning at the NW corner, thence South 00o2' East a
distance of 1320' to the point of beginning, thence East a distance of 660',
thence South 660', thence East 541.5', thence South 45o00' East a distance of
993.5', thence West a distance of 1861.5', thence North 00o02' West a distance
of 1320' to the point of beginning; and the NE/4 SE/4; and the SW/4 SE/4; and
the SE/4 SE/4; and SW/4; all in section 27-T9N-R7E;
   Lot 2 and N/2 NW/4 SE/4 NE/4 and NE/4 SE/4 NE/4 and N/2 SE/4 SE/4 NE/4 of
section 3-T8N-R7E;
   NW/4 SW/4; and SW/4 SW/4 of section 26-T9N-R7E;
   SE/4 of section 28-T9N-R7E, all in Seminole County, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 1152, 11-13-2012)
5-9-2: DRILLING PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall drill an oil,
gas, or disposal well, or otherwise mine or produce other minerals without
having previously obtained a permit to do same from the community services
office.
   B.   Application For Permit: All applicants desiring a permit to drill an
oil, gas, or disposal well shall submit to the community services office before
receiving a permit:
      1.   A description of the location of the well, specifying and
identifying the well location within a particular ten (10) acre tract within a
specific quarter, section, township, and range;
      2.   A list of all equipment that will be utilized in the drilling; and
      3.   The mud program to be utilized on that particular well.
   C.   Sportsman's Lake Area: No drilling permits shall be issued for any oil
or gas well in the Sportsman's Lake area. Drilling of any oil or gas well in
the Sportsman's Lake area is prohibited. Any ordinance or portion thereof that
is inconsistent with this subsection prohibiting drilling is hereby repealed.
All ordinances or portions thereof that are not inconsistent with this
subsection prohibiting drilling shall continue as valid and in force and
effect. (Ord. 1112, 3-9-2010, eff. 3-9-2010)
5-9-3: BOND AND INSURANCE:
   A.   Cash Deposit: Prior to the issuance of any permit, the applicant shall
deposit with the city clerk a cash amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
as a security for the compliance with all requirements of this chapter by the
owner, his driller, agents, and employees during the drilling operation.
   B.   Refund Of Deposit; Bond Required: When the drilling operation has been
completed in compliance with all requirements of this chapter, the ten thousand
dollar ($10,000.00) cash amount shall be refunded upon the deposit with the
city clerk of a surety bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
conditioned upon plugging of the well and/or the restoration of the land's
surface, such plugging and restoration to be performed within ninety (90) days
of the abandonment, in accordance with the rules and regulations of the
Oklahoma corporation commission and this code.
   C.   Forfeiture Of Surety Bond: Upon noncompliance of the above listed
conditions, the cash amount of the surety bond shall be forfeited, and shall
provide reimbursement to the landowner for the restoration of the land's
surface.
   D.   Insurance Requirement: Prior to the issuance of any permit, the
applicant shall also deposit a copy of an insurance policy, of a corporate
insurer licensed to do business in the state of Oklahoma, in an amount not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). The policy shall:
      1.   Contain no exclusion from coverage of contamination or pollution of
surface or subterranean streams, watercourses, lakes, or public or private
water supplies; and
      2.   Be conditioned for payment of all damages due to injury to persons,
or damage to property resulting from the drilling, operation, or maintenance of
the proposed well, or any structure, machinery, equipment, pipelines, or
appurtenances used in connection therewith. (2000 Code § 5-702; amd. Ord. 1057,
11-13-2007, eff. 11-13-2007)
5-9-4: CASING:
A minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') surface pipe or a minimum of one
hundred feet (100') below the base of Vamoosa sand, whichever distance is
greater, shall be set in each well after notification of intention to do so has
been given the conservation department of the Oklahoma corporation commission,
whose representative shall be entitled to inspect the installation thereof and
direct the type and amount of cement to be used in cementing the same in the
hole. (2000 Code § 5-704; amd. Ord. 1057, 11-13-2007, eff. 11-13-2007)
5-9-5: EARTHEN RETAINING WALL:
   A.   An earthen retaining wall of adequate size for the terrain shall be
constructed on the low side of all well sites on sloping or unlevel ground.
   B.   The top of the retaining wall shall be at least as high as the top of
the Christmas tree or other wellhead connections on any completed well or at
least as high as the ground at the point where surface casing is set in the
well when drilling. (2000 Code § 5-705)
5-9-6: EARTHEN SLUSH PITS:
   A.   No earthen slush pits shall be constructed, built, maintained or used
without prior approval of the community services office. However, in the
Sportsman's Lake area, no earthen slush pits shall be constructed, built,
maintained or used by any person. (2000 Code § 5-706; amd. Ord. 1057, 11-13-
2007, eff. 11-13-2007)
   B.   All waste oil, salt water, liquid with oil content, gasoline or other
oil derivatives or byproducts, sand, sludge, or other waste produced in
connection with the drilling, testing, cleaning, swabbing, reworking or
operating of any oil, gas or disposal well shall be captured and retained in
steel or fiberglass tanks or vessels and transported from the premises to a
disposal facility approved by the Oklahoma corporation commission.
   C.   No person shall permit such substances to escape from the premises
owned, leased, or controlled by the persons conducting such operations by
seepage, overflow, or otherwise, nor flow across the surface of the ground or
upon any public way, into any storm or sanitary sewer, drainage ditch, upon any
gutter or paving or into any gully, stream or tributary. (2000 Code § 5-706)
5-9-7: PREMISES MAINTAINED:
   The premises upon which any oil, gas, or disposal well is drilled, operated
or maintained shall be kept free of all accumulations of rubbish, litter,
unused equipment or materials, excess rotary mud, salt water, waste oil, or oil
byproducts and other waste, insofar as the same may be reasonably done in the
conduct of operations. (2000 Code § 5-707)
5-9-8: RESERVE PITS AND MUD CIRCULATION IN SPORTSMAN'S LAKE AREA:
   A.   Reserve pits located in the Sportsman's Lake area shall be exclusively
metal tanks or vessels.
   B.   All circulating mud pits utilized within such area shall likewise be
exclusively of metal construction. (2000 Code § 5-708)
   C.   No chemicals or substances shall be placed in said reserve or
circulating mud pits, except as indicated in the mud program approved by the
community services office at the time of issuance of the drilling permit, and
all contents of such reserve and circulating mud pits shall, during and upon
completion of the drilling of the well, be transported from the premises to a
disposal facility. (2000 Code § 5-708; amd. Ord. 1057, 11-13-2007, eff. 11-13-
2007)
5-9-9: SAFETY DEVICES AND PRACTICES:
   A.   Approved equipment, standard devices and all ordinary methods commonly
known and used in the oil and gas drilling and producing industry for the
safety and protection of property from damage due to drilling and operating
activities shall be used at all locations. Failure on the part of any owner,
driller, or operator to utilize such equipment, devices or methods shall be the
basis for objection thereof by the city or any person affected thereby, in
addition to any penalties provided in this chapter.
   B.   All drilling wells shall be equipped with a master gate or its
equivalent blowout preventers, flow lines and valves commensurate with the
working involved. (2000 Code § 5-709)
5-9-10: STORAGE TANKS:
   A.   Storage tanks or other types of tanks containing flammable or
deleterious substances used in connection with any oil, gas, or disposal well
shall have earthen embankments constructed around them of sufficient size and
height to be able to adequately contain volume of such tanks should a rupture
occur at the floor of such tank.
   B.   No drain plugs, openings or siphons shall be placed in the walls or
dikes which will permit the escape of any liquids through the same.
   C.   No such tank shall be located closer than one hundred feet (100') to a
dwelling or business structure, street or highway.
   D.   All salt water holding tanks for new installation and/or replacement
will be of fiberglass. (2000 Code § 5-710)
5-9-11: TUBING:
   A.   Upon completion of any flowing well, the wellhead equipment shall have,
on the tubing, at least one master valve plus a flow valve, and a valve on the
casing annulus.
   B.   All disposal wells shall be equipped with at least two inch (2") inside
diameter plastic lined tubing or its equivalent set on a packer and a pressure
gauge shall be installed on the casing annulus at all times. (2000 Code § 5-
711)
5-9-12: FEES:
   The following fees shall be charged by the city under this chapter:
   A.   For oil/gas well drilling permit: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
(2000 Code § 5-712; amd. Ord. 1057, 11-13-2007, eff. 11-13-2007)
   B.   For oil/gas well maintenance generally: Twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per inspection not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year; and
   C.   For oil/gas well maintenance in Sportsman's Lake area: One hundred
dollars ($100.00) per year. (2000 Code § 5-712)
5-9-13: PENALTY; NUISANCE DECLARED:
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-1-
8 of this code. Each day any violation is committed or continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense and be punishable as such. In addition, violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance
and shall be a basis for injunction at the suit of the city or at the suit of
any person, firm or corporation adversely affected thereby. (2000 Code § 5-713)
CHAPTER 10
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-10-1: Purposes
5-10-2: Definitions
5-10-3: Housing Discrimination Acts Prohibited
5-10-4: Exemptions
5-10-5: Fair Housing Board
5-10-6: Procedure For Complaints
5-10-7: Serving Of Notices
5-10-8: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
5-10-9: Prevention Of Intimidation In Fair Housing Cases
5-10-10: Penalty
5-10-1: PURPOSES:
   The general purposes of this chapter are:
   A.   To secure for all people equal access to housing in all neighborhoods;
and
   B.   To preserve the public safety, health and welfare. (2000 Code § 5-802)
5-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under this chapter.
   DWELLING AND HOUSING: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is
occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more
families and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of any such building, structure or portion
thereof.
   FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
   PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (2000 Code §
5-801)
5-10-3: HOUSING DISCRIMINATION ACTS PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person, real estate broker, real estate
salesperson, or corporation:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status.
   C.   To make, print or publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial
status or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is, in fact, so
available.
   E.   To induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling,
for profit, by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of particular race, gender, color,
religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial status.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association,
insurance company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose
business consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate
loans to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the
amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or
other financial assistance because of the race, gender, color, religion,
national origin, age, handicap or familial status of such person or of any
person associated with him in connection with such loan or other financial
assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance, or of
the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given, provided that nothing contained in this
section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in
section 5-10-4 of this chapter.
   G.   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on account
of race, gender, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial
status. (2000 Code § 5-803; amd. Ord. 1057, 11-13-2007, eff. 11-13-2007)
5-10-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   Nothing herein shall apply to any religious organization, association,
society or private club; a religious nonprofit organization, operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale or rental of dwelling units
owned and operated for other than a commercial purpose. (2000 Code § 5-804)
5-10-5: FAIR HOUSING BOARD:
   A.   Membership; Terms: There is hereby created a fair housing board of the
city, hereinafter referred to as "board", composed of five (5) members, to be
appointed by the mayor and city council for terms of three (3) years. However,
of the members first appointed under this chapter, two (2) shall be appointed
for a term of one year, two (2) shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years,
and one shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. (2000 Code § 5-805)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the fair housing board to:
      1.   Initiate, receive, and investigate complaints charging unlawful
housing practices;
      2.   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, make findings
of fact, and publish its findings of fact; and
      3.   Adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary within the
limits of this chapter, and carry out the purposes and provisions of this
chapter. (2000 Code § 5-806)
5-10-6: PROCEDURE FOR COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint: Any person aggrieved by discriminatory practice
prohibited by this chapter may file with the fair housing board a complaint in
writing, under oath. The complaint shall be signed by the person claiming to be
aggrieved, and shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have
violated the provisions of this chapter, and shall further set forth the
particulars of the violation, and may include such other information as may be
required by the board. Complaints filed under this section must be filed within
thirty (30) days after the alleged violation, and failure to file within said
time shall be considered a waiver of the application of this chapter. The board
may issue a complaint on its own initiative, at any time it is within the
knowledge of the board that a person has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Investigation Of Complaint: The board shall investigate each complaint
filed with the board, and shall attempt an adjustment of the complaint by means
of conference and conciliation. Sixty (60) days shall be allowed for the
purpose of investigation, conference and conciliation. Upon determination that
a complaint is not well founded, the board shall dismiss the complaint and
notify the complainant and respondent in writing of the dismissal. If the board
takes no action within ninety (90) days of the filing of the complaint, it
shall be considered as dismissed.
   C.   Notice To Answer Charges Of Complaint; Hearing: If conference or
conciliation does not result in compliance with this chapter, the board shall
cause to be issued and served in the name of the city a written notice,
together with a copy of the complaint, requiring the person named in the
complaint, hereinafter referred to as respondent, to answer charges of the
complaint at a hearing before the board at a time and place to be specified in
the notice.
   D.   Conducting Hearing; Procedure: At the hearing provided for in
subsection C of this section, the complaint shall be heard by the board. At the
hearing, the complainant or person aggrieved may appear in person or by
counsel, and the respondent may file a written answer to the complaint and may
appear in person or by legal counsel. The board, when conducting any hearing
pursuant to this section, may permit amendments to any complaint or answer, and
the testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath, and shall be
transcribed at the request of either party, or at the direction of the board.
If the board finds at the hearing that the respondent has engaged in any
discriminatory practice or practices prohibited by this chapter, it shall state
its findings of fact, and shall so certify the matter to the city attorney for
appropriate action. No prosecution shall be brought under this chapter except
upon such certification. If the board, upon hearing, finds that respondent has
not engaged in any discriminatory practice, it shall state its findings of fact
and shall issue and file an order dismissing the complaint. The board shall
establish rules and regulations to govern and expedite and effectuate the
foregoing procedure, and shall maintain the files provided for herein. (2000
Code § 5-807)
5-10-7: SERVING OF NOTICES:
   Any and all notices required under the provisions of this chapter to be
served upon any person may be served personally on such person, or by mailing a
copy thereof by certified or registered mail, with return receipt requested, to
the most current business or residence address of such person. (2000 Code § 5-
808)
5-10-8: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of or on account of his having exercised or
enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged, any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by this chapter.
This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action. (2000 Code § 5-809)
5-10-9: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES:
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force, wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of his race, gender, color, religion, national
origin, age, handicap or familial status and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the
sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling or applying for
or participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   B.   Any person because he is or has been or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating without discrimination on account of race, gender,
color, religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial status in any of
the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A
of this section; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   C.   Any citizen because he is or has been or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, gender, color,
religion, national origin, age, handicap or familial status, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in this section, or
from participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial
of the opportunity to so participate shall be considered in violation of this
chapter. (2000 Code § 5-810; amd. Ord. 1057, 11-13-2007, eff. 11-13-2007)
5-10-10: PENALTY:
   It shall be unlawful and constitute an offense for any person to violate any
of the provisions of this chapter. Any person found guilty of violating any
provisions shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and is subject, upon
conviction, to a fine as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code §
5-811)
CHAPTER 11
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
5-11-1: Permit Required
5-11-2: Permit Application; Fee
5-11-3: Bond
5-11-4: Liability Insurance
5-11-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any person, as
principal, agent, laborer, servant or employee, to use or occupy any of the
streets, avenues or alleys, or other public places within the city limits for
the purpose of moving any building, structure or edifice or any other object or
thing, of any kind or character, to be used or placed herein for the purpose of
effecting the transportation of such structures, buildings, edifices or other
things as above described without having first obtained from the community
services office a permit for the purposes, which shall first have been approved
by the director of public works and the building inspector. No permit shall be
necessary to move buildings or other structures which are under thirteen and
one-half feet (131/2') in height, when loaded, and twelve feet (12') in width
and overall length of twenty feet (20'). No permit shall be issued for the
removal of any building exceeding twenty two feet (22') in height after the
building is loaded upon the equipment used in the removal of same or for any
building of over fifty five feet (55') in width or eighty feet (80') in length
with the overall length not to exceed eighty feet (80').
   B.   Plugging Sewer Service Line: No permit shall be issued to move any
building until the service sewer line from the building to be moved has been
plugged by a licensed plumber at the riser at a point not less than four feet
(4') deep from the surface of the ground. It shall be the duty of the owner of
any property from which the building was moved to fill up all holes and remove
any debris and trash from the premises.
   C.   Deposit Required For Cleanup Of Lot: The owner shall deposit with the
community services office, before removing the building, the sum of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) as a guarantee that the lot will be cleaned up as above
stated, and in the event the owner does not clean up the lot within ten (10)
days after the removal of the building, the community services director is
authorized to clean up the lot and expend all or such portion of the two
hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) deposit to clean up the lot. However, in the
event the lot is cleaned up by the owner, the community services director will
refund the deposit. (2000 Code § 5-901; amd. Ord. 1057, 11-13-2007, eff. 11-13-
2007)
5-11-2: PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: The permit required by this chapter shall be
obtained on written application, which shall recite the character of the thing
or object to be moved and transported along or through and upon the streets,
avenues or alleys as aforesaid, the proposed route of such transportation and
the place or places where the equipment used in effecting such moving and
transporting shall be placed and secured.
   B.   Fee: The fee for such permit for removing any building shall be as set
by the council by motion or resolution. (2000 Code § 5-902)
5-11-3: BOND:
   No permit shall be issued until the applicant has deposited with the officer
issuing such permit a cash bond in such sum as may be reasonably necessary to
cover all loss or damage to streets or pavements by reason of any negligence or
improper occupancy of the streets, sidewalks and alleys. All such persons as
described herein, engaged as principals in the business herein described, in
addition to the cash bond deposit, shall deliver a surety bond in the sum of
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned that such person shall save,
indemnify and keep harmless the city against any and all liabilities,
judgments, damages, costs and expenses which may in any way accrue against the
city in consequence of the granting of such permit, or while acting under the
same and will under all circumstances strictly comply with the terms of such
permit. Such surety bond shall not in any manner be affected or limited by the
cash deposit required herein. Any person as referred to herein, or his laborer,
servant, agent or employee shall cause a sufficient passageway to be kept open
for vehicles to pass on one side or both sides of any building, structure,
edifice, object or thing, while the same is being moved upon any street, avenue
or alley, if the character of same permits such, and when possible, the same
shall be kept moving each day without avoidable delay. (2000 Code § 5-903)
5-11-4: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   A.   Insurance Required: Before any permit shall be issued to house movers,
every person obtaining such permit shall file with the city clerk, to be
approved by the mayor and council, an insurance policy for an indemnity fund as
hereinafter provided.
   B.   Conditions Of Policy: An insurance policy issued by the insurance
company licensed and authorized to do business in the state providing public
liability insurance coverage for each and every operation required in house
moving in the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for every injury or
death of any one person and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for the
injury or death of any number of persons in any one accident growing out of the
house moving and with the coverage of at least fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for property damage in any one accident. The policy shall further
provide that it cannot be canceled until ten (10) days' written notice of such
cancellation has been given to the city clerk, and the policy shall carry an
endorsement of actual notice to the city for any change therein. The policy
shall be approved by the community services director and endorsed thereon. The
policy shall be made for the use and benefit and protection of any person or
property by reason of any accident or omission or negligence of any person
engaged in house moving. Such policy must be approved by the community services
director; and if approved, the policy shall remain in full force and effect
during the life of any such license issued. If after the approval of the policy
and after the issuance of the license, such policy shall be allowed to lapse or
shall not be renewed by the payment of premiums, the mayor and city council may
cancel any license issued under the provisions of this chapter, after notice to
the licensee and after an opportunity to be heard. The cancellation of any
policy shall in no way affect or terminate any liability arising prior to the
effective date of such cancellation. (2000 Code § 5-904; amd. Ord. 1057, 11-13-
2007, eff. 11-13-2007)
CHAPTER 12
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
5-12-1: Code Adopted
5-12-2: Revisions
5-12-1: CODE ADOPTED:
That a certain document, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Seminole, being marked and designated as the
International Existing Building Code, 2021 edition, including all Appendix
Chapters (see International Existing Building Code Section 101.6,2021 edition),
as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Existing Building Code of the City of Seminole, in the State of Oklahoma,
regulating and governing the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition
and relocation of existing buildings, including historic buildings, as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Existing Building Code on file in the office of
the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes, if any, prescribed in Section
5-12-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1189, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1276, 11-8-2022)
5-12-2: REVISIONS:
That the following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1 Insert City of Seminole.
   Section 1401.2 Insert January 1, 1980.
(Ord. 1189, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 1276, 11-8-2022)
TITLE 6
COURT
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Organization Of Court
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Jurisdiction Of Court
6-1-4: Municipal Court Judge
6-1-5: Disqualification Of Judge In Prosecutions
6-1-6: Principal Officer Of Court
6-1-7: Clerk Of The Court
6-1-8: Prosecuting Attorney; Duties; Conflict Of Interest
6-1-9: Rules Of Court
6-1-10: Written Complaints To Prosecute Violations
6-1-11: Procedures For Issuing Citation; Custody, Arrest
6-1-12: Creation Of Traffic Violations Bureau
6-1-13: Summons For Arrest
6-1-14: Form Of Arrest Warrant
6-1-15: Procedures For Bail Or Bond
6-1-16: Traffic Bail Bond Procedures
6-1-17: Bond Forfeiture; District Court
6-1-18: Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant
6-1-19: Trials And Judgments
6-1-20: Trial By Jury Or Waiver
6-1-21: Jurors And Jury Trial Procedures
6-1-22: Witness Fees
6-1-23: Compensation Of Jurors
6-1-24: Sentencing
6-1-25: Complaint; Failure To Appear; Court Costs
6-1-26: Judgment
6-1-27: Imprisonment; Work By Prisoners
6-1-28: Costs And Administrative Fees
6-1-29: Penalty Assessment
6-1-1: ORGANIZATION OF COURT:
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal
court of the city of Seminole, as put into operation by resolution duly passed
on February 4, 1969, and filed in accordance with law as authorized by 11
Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-101 and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between
any provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any ordinance of this
city, the provisions of this chapter shall control. The court shall be
operative on and after February 12, 1969. (2000 Code § 6-101; amd. Ord. 1066,
1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning,
the following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
city.
   CLERK: The clerk of the city, including any deputy or member of the office
staff of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
   COURT: The municipal court of the city of Seminole.
   JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
   THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma wherein the government of the city is situated. (2000 Code § 6-102;
amd. Ord. 1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
6-1-3: JURISDICTION OF COURT:
   The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the city is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law. (2000 Code § 6-103; amd. Ord. 1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
6-1-4: MUNICIPAL COURT JUDGE:
   A.   Qualifications: There shall be one judge of the court. A judge shall be
duly licensed to practice law in this state. He may engage in the practice of
law in other courts, but he shall not accept employment inconsistent with his
duties as judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected
with cases within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might
become the subject of proceedings therein. He must be a resident of the county.
(2000 Code § 6-104)
   B.   Term Of Office: The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years
expiring on January 15 in each odd numbered year. Each judge, unless sooner
removed for proper cause, shall serve until his successor is appointed and
qualified. (2000 Code § 6-105; amd. Ord. 1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
   C.   Alternate Judge: There shall be appointed for each judge of the court
an alternate judge possessed of the same qualifications as the judge. His
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
judge. He shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case if the judge is:
      1.   Absent from the court;
      2.   Unable to act as judge; or
      3.   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case. (2000 Code § 6-106)
   D.   Acting Judge: If at any time there is no judge or alternate judge, duly
appointed and qualified, available to sit as judge, the mayor shall appoint
some person, possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the
judge, who shall preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition of
pending matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be
available. (2000 Code § 6-107)
   E.   Appointment Of Judge And Alternate Judge: Judges and alternate judges
shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city council. A
proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the governing body at the
next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to the day upon which the
appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon at the next regularly
scheduled meeting. The city council may decide upon the proposed appointment by
a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure of decision upon a
proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a later regularly
scheduled meeting of the governing body unless the mayor, in writing, withdraws
the proposed appointment. (2000 Code § 6-108)
   F.   Salary And Payments To Judges:
      1.   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the governing body by motion or resolution, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of the city.
      2.   An alternate judge or an acting judge shall be paid an amount as set
by the governing body for each day devoted to the performance of his duties,
except that the total payments so calculated during any month shall not exceed
the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits. An alternate or acting judge
who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount specified in this chapter
as the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits. (2000 Code § 6-109)
   G.   Removal Of Judge:
      1.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing body
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
         a.   The mayor; or
         b.   Twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of the city.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
      2.   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the judge shall be entitled to:
         a.   Representation by counsel;
         b.   Present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against him;
and
         c.   Have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
      3.   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the Oklahoma
administrative procedures act governing individual proceedings 1  shall govern
removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon
individual votes, by a majority of all members of the governing body, in favor
of such removal. (2000 Code § 6-110)
   H.   Vacancy In Office Of Judge:
      1.   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
         a.   Dies;
         b.   Resigns;
         c.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
         d.   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed
finally in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
(2000 Code § 6-111)
      2.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the mayor,
with consent of the city council, shall appoint a successor to complete the
unexpired term in the same manner as an original appointment is made. (2000
Code § 6-111; amd. Ord. 1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 75 OS §§ 309-317.
6-1-5: DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE IN PROSECUTIONS:
   In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed; but
the judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or
he may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge appointed as provided in this
chapter. (2000 Code § 6-112)
6-1-6: PRINCIPAL OFFICER OF COURT:
   All writs or processes of the court shall be directed, in his official
title, to the chief of police of the city, who shall be the principal officer
of the court. (2000 Code § 6-113)
6-1-7: CLERK OF THE COURT:
   A.   Duties: The city clerk, or a deputy designated by him, shall be the
clerk of the court. He shall assist the judge in recording the proceedings of
the court and in preparing writs, processes and other papers. He shall
administer oaths required in proceedings before the court. He shall enter all
pleadings, processes, and proceedings in the dockets of the court. He shall
perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of the court as
the judge shall direct. He shall receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines,
deposits, and sums of money payable to the court. He shall pay to the city
treasurer all monies so received by him, except such special deposits or fees
as shall be received to be disbursed by him for special purposes. All monies
paid to the treasurer shall be placed in the general fund of the city, or in
such other funds as the governing body may direct, and it shall be used in the
operation of the city government in accordance with budgetary arrangements
governing the fund in which it is placed. (2000 Code § 6-114)
   B.   Bond Of Court Clerk: The clerk of the court shall give bond, in the
form provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111. When executed, the bond
shall be submitted to the governing body for approval. When approved, it shall
be filed with the clerk of the city and retained in the city archives. (2000
Code § 6-116)
6-1-8: PROSECUTING ATTORNEY; DUTIES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
   The attorney for the city, or his duly designated assistant, shall be the
prosecuting officer of the court. He shall also prosecute all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the city. He shall be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal, proceedings in error and review
from this court to any other court of the state, and to represent the city in
all proceedings arising out of matters in this court. (2000 Code § 6-115)
6-1-9: RULES OF COURT:
   A.   Prescribed By Judge: The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the
laws of the state and with the ordinances of the city, for the proper conduct
of the business of the court. (2000 Code § 6-117)
   B.   Enforcement: Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the
judge or by the court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison
for contempt committed as to him while holding court, or committed against
process issued by him, in the same manner and to the same extent as the
district courts of this state. (2000 Code § 6-118)
6-1-10: WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE VIOLATIONS:
   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of the city shall be styled
"The City of Seminole vs. (naming defendant or defendants)". Except as provided
hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the city
attorney. (2000 Code § 6-119)
6-1-11: PROCEDURES FOR ISSUING CITATION; CUSTODY, ARREST:
   A.   Residents Of City:
      1.   If a resident of the city is arrested by a law enforcement officer
for the violation of any traffic ordinance for which other provisions of this
chapter do not apply, or is arrested for the violation of a nontraffic
ordinance, the officer shall immediately release the person if the person
acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it. However, the arresting
officer need not release the person if it reasonably appears to the officer
that the person may cause injury to himself or others or damage to property if
released, that the person will not appear in response to the citation, or the
person is arrested for an offense against a person or property. If the person
fails to appear in response to the citation, a warrant shall be issued for his
arrest and his appearance shall be compelled.
      2.   If the arrested resident is not released by being permitted to sign
a citation as provided for in this subsection, he shall be admitted to bail
either before or after arraignment, or shall be released on personal
recognizance.
   B.   Nonresidents: If a nonresident of the city is arrested by a law
enforcement officer for a violation of any ordinance for which section 6-1-12
of this chapter does not apply, the defendant shall be eligible to be admitted
to bail either before or after arraignment.
   C.   Parking Violations: If the alleged offense be a violation of an
ordinance restricting or regulating the parking of vehicles, including any
regulations issued under such an ordinance, and the operator be not present,
the police officer shall place on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to
come to the notice of the operator, a citation conforming substantially to that
prescribed in the remaining sections of this chapter, with such variation as
the circumstances require; the operator of this vehicle shall be under the same
obligation to respond to the citation as if it had been issued to him
personally under this section. (2000 Code § 6-120)
6-1-12: CREATION OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU:
   A.   Payment Of Fines To Bureau: A traffic violations bureau hereby is
established as a division of the office of the clerk of the court, to be
administered by the clerk, or by subordinates designated by him for that
purpose. Persons who are cited for violation of one of the traffic regulatory
ordinances of the city, other than:
      1.   A second traffic offense within a twelve (12) month period;
      2.   A driver's license offense; or
      3.   An offense punishable by a fine of more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) or by imprisonment;
may elect to pay a fine in the traffic violations bureau according to the
schedule of fines to be determined by the court.
   B.   Adoption Of Rules: The court may adopt rules to carry into effect this
section. Payment of a fine under this section shall constitute a final
determination of cause against the defendant. If a defendant who has elected to
pay a fine under this section fails to do so, prosecution shall proceed under
the provisions of this chapter. (2000 Code § 6-121)
6-1-13: SUMMONS FOR ARREST:
   A.   Warrant Of Arrest Issuance: Upon the filing of a complaint charging
violation of any ordinance, the judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant
of arrest, or unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has
been arrested and has given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming
the person charged, specifying his address or place of residence, if known,
stating the offense with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer
the charge in the court on a certain day, at least five (5) days (Sundays and
holidays excepted) after the summons is served upon him, and including such
other pertinent information as may be necessary. (2000 Code § 6-122; amd. Ord.
1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
   B.   Serving Summons: The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to
the defendant personally. If he fails to appear and to answer the summons
within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest, as
provided by this chapter. (2000 Code § 6-122)
6-1-14: FORM OF ARREST WARRANT:
   A.   Form Of Warrant: Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the
city, upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the
attorney of the city or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of
arrest, in substantially the following form:
The City of Seminole to the Chief of Police of the City of Seminole, Oklahoma.
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense of (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been
committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefore
forthwith to arrest the above named defendant and bring                     
before me, at Seminole, Oklahoma.
Witness my hand this          day of                  , 20     .
                                                     
Judge of the Municipal Court
Seminole, Oklahoma
   B.   Prompt Delivery Of Warrant: It is the duty of the chief of police,
personally, or through a duly constituted member of the police force of the
city, or through any other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a
warrant as promptly as possible. (2000 Code § 6-123; amd. Ord. 1066, 1-8-2008,
eff. 2-7-2008)
6-1-15: PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND:
Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation or
summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance
in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail. In case of
arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency or when the judge
is not available, the rules shall authorize the chief of police, or his
designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond in such amount as
set on the bond schedule prepared by the court. (2000 Code § 6-124)
 
6-1-16: TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Release On Personal Recognizance: In addition to other provisions of
law for posting bail, any person, whether a resident of this state or a
nonresident, who is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a
misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law or city traffic ordinance shall be
released by the arresting officer upon personal recognizance if:
      1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a participant of the nonresident violator compact, or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      3.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires
immediate medical treatment as determined by a treating physician; and
      4.   The violation does not constitute:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   Negligent homicide;
         c.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances, unless the person is unconscious or injured and requires immediate
medical treatment as determined by a treating physician;
         d.   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         e.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver license, or while the driving privilege and driver license is under
suspension, revocation, denial or cancellation;
         f.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         g.   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections A4a through A4f of this section;
         h.   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         i.   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   B.   Duties Of Arresting Officer:
      1.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal
recognizance as provided for in subsection A of this section, then the
arresting officer shall:
         a.   Designate the traffic charge;
         b.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
         c.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
         d.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
         e.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation.
      2.   The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal
recognizance based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall
contain a written notice to the arrested person that release upon personal
recognizance based upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is
conditional and that failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in
the suspension of the arrested person's driving privilege and driver's license
in this state, or in the nonresident's home state pursuant to the nonresident
violator compact.
   C.   Arraignment Continued Or Rescheduled: The court, or the court clerk as
directed by the court, may continue or reschedule the date and time of
arraignment upon request of the arrested person or his attorney. If the
arraignment is continued or rescheduled, the arrested person shall remain on
personal recognizance and written promise to appear until such arraignment, in
the same manner and with the same consequences as if the continued or
rescheduled arraignment were entered on the citation by the arresting officer
and signed by the defendant. An arraignment may be continued or rescheduled
more than one time; provided, however, the court shall require an arraignment
to be had within a reasonable time. It shall remain the duty of the defendant
to appear for arraignment unless the citation is satisfied as provided for in
subsection D of this section. Procedures for arraignment, continuances and
scheduling, timely appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting
bail, payment of fines and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for
suspension of driver's license, shall be required by the city or as provided in
state law, 22 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1115.1 through 1115.5.
   D.   Entering Plea; Payment Of Fine: A defendant released upon personal
recognizance may elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the
violation charged at any time before he is required to appear for arraignment
by indicating such plea on the copy of the citation furnished to him or on a
legible copy thereof, together with the date of the plea and his signature. The
defendant shall be responsible for assuring full payment of the fine and costs
to the court clerk. Payment of the fine and costs may be made by personal,
cashier's, traveler's, certified or guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial
money order, or other form of payment approved by the court in the amount
prescribed as bail for the offense. However, the defendant shall not use
currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or
nolo contendere as provided for in this subsection, such plea shall be accepted
by the court and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as prescribed by
ordinance for the violation charged or as prescribed by the court or, in the
absence of such ordinance, in the amount prescribed by the court.
   E.   Failure To Respond; Issuance Of Warrant:
      1.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant and the city or district court clerk, within one
hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by the
arresting officer, shall notify the state department of public safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      2.   The court clerk shall request the state department of public safety
to either suspend the defendant's driving privilege and driver's license to
operate a motor vehicle in this state, or notify the defendant's home state and
request suspension of the defendant's driving privilege and driver's license in
accordance with the provisions of the nonresident violator compact. Such notice
and request shall be on a form approved or furnished by the state department of
public safety. The court clerk shall not process the notification and request
provided for in this subsection if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was
jailed, or otherwise settled the case;
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   F.   Record Of Actions In Court: The court clerk shall maintain a record of
each request for driving privilege and driver's license suspension submitted to
the state department of public safety pursuant to the provisions of this
section. When the court or court clerk receives appropriate bail or payment of
the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes other arrangements with the
defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the court clerk shall furnish proof
thereof to such defendant, if the defendant personally appears, or shall mail
such proof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the defendant at the
address noted on the citation or at such other address as is furnished by the
defendant. Additionally, the court or court clerk shall notify the home
jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the citation, if such jurisdiction
is a member of the nonresident violator compact, and shall in all other cases,
notify the state department of public safety of the resolution of the case. The
form of proof and the procedures for notification shall be approved by the
state department of public safety. Provided however, the court or court clerk's
failure to furnish such proof or notice in the manner provided for in this
subsection shall in no event create any civil liability upon the court, the
court clerk, the state or any political subdivision thereof, or any state
department or agency or any employee thereof but duplicate proof shall be
furnished to the person entitled thereto upon request. (2000 Code § 6-125; amd.
Ord. 1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
 
6-1-17: BOND FORFEITURE; DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Forfeiture Of Bond: If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to
appear according to the terms or conditions of his bond, either for hearing,
arraignment, trial or judgment, or upon any other occasion when his presence in
court or before the magistrate may be lawfully required, the judge may direct
that fact to be entered upon the court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to
be forfeited. Without advancing court costs, the judge shall then cause the
forfeiture to be certified to the district court of the county where situs of
the city government is situated, where it shall be entered upon the judgment
docket and shall have the full force and effect of a district court judgment.
At such time as the forfeiture is entered upon the district court judgment
docket, the district court clerk shall proceed in accordance with the
provisions of 59 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1332, 1333 and 1335, and a surety
shall have all remedies available under the provisions of 22 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1108, and 59 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1301 through 1340. Court costs
shall be collectible from the proceeds of the bond.
   B.   Prosecution: A prosecution in a court provided for herein shall be a
bar to prosecution in another court for the same or a lesser included offense.
(2000 Code § 6-126; amd. Ord. 1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
 
6-1-18: ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The judge, or the attorney of the city, shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by
jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether
he pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may
proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the
court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(2000 Code § 6-127)
 
6-1-19: TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Postponement: Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause
shown, may obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   B.   Presence Of Defendant: The defendant must be present in person at the
trial.
   C.   Procedure: In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or
by the statutes relating to municipal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by
the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
   D.   Immediate Judgment Rendered: At the close of trial, judgment must be
rendered immediately by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his
docket.
   E.   Acquittal: If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be
detained for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once.
   F.   Imposition Of Fine:
      1.   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he be
imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day imprisonment for
each five dollars ($5.00) of fine. If the defendant is without means to pay the
fine or costs, the municipal judge may direct the total amount due to be
entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to the district court of the
county wherein the situs of government is situated where it shall be entered
upon the district court judgment docket and shall have the full force and
effect of a district court judgment. Thereupon the same remedies shall be
available for the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other
judgment creditor.
      2.   Any person fined for violation of a municipal ordinance who is
financially able but refuses or neglects to pay the fine or costs may be
compelled to satisfy the amount owed by working on the streets, alleys,
avenues, areas, and public grounds of the city, subject to the direction of the
proper officer, at a rate per day as the city council may prescribe by
ordinance, but not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day for useful
labor, until the fine or costs are satisfied. (2000 Code § 6-128; amd. Ord.
1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
6-1-20: TRIAL BY JURY OR WAIVER:
   A.   Trial By Jury Or Court: In all prosecutions in the municipal court for
any offense for which the municipality, with the concurrence of the court,
seeks imposition of a fine of more than five hundred dollars ($500.00),
excluding court costs, or imprisonment, or both such fine and imprisonment, a
jury trial shall be had unless waived by the defendant and the municipality. In
prosecutions for all other offenses, or in cases wherein a jury trial is waived
by the defendant and the municipality, trial shall be to the court. (Ord. 1102,
7-14-2009)
   B.   Decision Of Defendant: At arraignment, the defendant shall be asked
whether he or she demands or waives trial by jury. The defendant's election
shall be recorded in the minutes of the arraignment and entered on the docket
of the court respecting proceedings in the case. Once a defendant voluntarily
waives his or her right to jury trial, said right may not be reclaimed unless
agreed to by the parties. An election demanding jury trial may be mutually
withdrawn at any time prior to the commencement of the proceedings. However,
any costs incurred to impanel the jury will be assessed against the defendant.
(Ord. 1038, 9-12-2006)
 
6-1-21: JURORS AND JURY TRIAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Request For Jury List: Whenever a calendar has been made up for the
trial of cases by jury, the judge shall request, in writing, the presiding
judge of the district court for this judicial district to cause the names of a
stated number of jurors, deemed sufficient to dispose of the cases on the
calendar, to be drawn from the jury wheel in accordance with the governing
statutes of the state, and to be certified by the clerk of the district court
to the judge of the municipal court. The request shall be made in time for the
list to be certified and the jurors to be summoned legally before the trial of
the calendar begins. If it is anticipated that the completion of the calendar
will require more than two (2) weeks, the request for jurors shall specify the
number required for each two (2) week period, as provided by law for the
drawing of jurors for the district court. Additional drawing of other names
also may be requested by the judge, when necessary, in accordance with the law
for such additional drawings in the district court. If, in the future,
provisions of the law respecting the drawing of jury lists for the district
court are changed, the judge shall take such steps, in requesting jury lists
for the court, as are necessary to comply with the state law. (2000 Code § 6-
130)
   B.   Summons Of Jurors; Form: Upon receipt of the jury list, the clerk of
the court shall cause a summons in such form as determined by the municipal
court to be issued and served upon each person on the list:
      STATE OF OKLAHOMA   )
                  ) SS:
      COUNTY OF SEMINOLE   )
TO                     , GREETING: you hereby are summoned to appear in the
Municipal Court for the City of Seminole, Oklahoma, to be held at
                 on the        day of         , 20     , at the hour of
          o'clock    .M., to serve as a juror in said court, and to continue in
such service until discharged by the court.
Hereof fail not, under penalty of law.
Issued under the authority of said court, this        day of           ,
20     .
Clerk of the Municipal Court of the City of Seminole, Oklahoma
   (Seal)
(2000 Code § 6-130; amd. Ord. 1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
   C.   Service Of Summons: Service shall be made, as the judge may prescribe
by rule or direct by order, either in person upon the juror by the chief of
police or by any member of the police force of the city, or by the clerk of the
court, through certified mail, directed to the juror at his address as given in
the jury list with request for a personally signed return receipt. In any
proceeding wherein service of summons by mail is in issue, evidence of the due
mailing of the summons by the clerk or a member of his staff and the
presentation of an official postal return receipt purportedly signed by the
addressee shall be prima facie evidence that the summons was duly received by
the addressee and therefore, that he was properly served therewith.
   D.   Composition; Qualifications: A jury in the court shall consist of six
(6) jurors, good and lawful men or women, citizens of the county of Seminole,
possessing the qualifications of jurors in district court.
   E.   Duties Of Jurors: After the jurors are sworn, they must sit together
and hear the proofs and oral arguments of the parties, which must be delivered
in public and in the presence of the defendant.
   F.   Rendition Of Verdict: A verdict of the jury may be rendered by the vote
of five (5) jurors.
   G.   Duties Of Judge: In all actions tried before a jury, the judge shall
determine all questions of law, including questions as to the introduction of
evidence arising during the trial. He also shall instruct the jury as to the
law.
   H.   Delivery Of Verdict: The verdict of the jury, in all cases, must be
general. When the jury has arrived at its verdict, it must deliver the verdict
publicly to the court. The judge must enter the verdict in the docket or cause
it to be so entered.
   I.   Discharge Of Jury: The jury must not be discharged after the cause is
submitted to it until a verdict is rendered, unless the judge, for good cause,
discharges it sooner, in which event the court may proceed again to trial, and
so on, until a verdict is rendered. (2000 Code § 6-130)
 
6-1-22: WITNESS FEES:
   A.   Fees Allowed: Witnesses in any proceeding in the court, other than the
police officers or peace officers, shall be entitled to a fee as set by the
court for each day of attendance. However, no witness shall receive fees in
more than one case for the same period of time.
   B.   Deposit Required; Exception For Indigents:
      1.   Deposit Required: A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must
deposit with the clerk a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day
of attendance for each witness to be summoned.
      2.   Indigents:
         a.   However, such deposit shall not be required from an indigent
defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
            (1) The names of no more than three (3) witnesses;
            (2) That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to
provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
            (3) That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
            (4) That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper
defense.
         b.   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the city and may be
recovered as costs as provided in this chapter. (2000 Code § 6-131)
6-1-23: COMPENSATION OF JURORS:
Each juror sworn before the court shall receive for his services the sum of
five dollars ($5.00). Each juror, for attendance in the court, shall be paid
five dollars ($5.00) for each additional day of attendance as a juror. Mileage
will be paid at the current rate as established by the internal revenue
service. All jury fees shall be taxed as costs in the case. (2000 Code § 6-132;
amd. Ord. 1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
 
6-1-24: SENTENCING:
   A.   The judge may suspend, modify, defer or reduce a sentence in accordance
with 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 27-122.1 and 27-123.
   B.   A judge who is licensed to practice law in this state, in imposing a
judgment and sentence, at his discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce, or
suspend or defer the imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to
authorize probation for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of
sentence, under such terms or conditions as the judge may specify. Procedures
relating to suspension of the judgment or costs or both shall be as provided in
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-123. Upon completion of the probation term, the
defendant shall be discharged without a court judgment of guilt, and the
verdict, judgment of guilty or pleas of guilty shall be expunged from the
record and the charge dismissed with prejudice to any further action. Upon a
finding of the court that the conditions of probation have been violated, the
municipal judge may enter a judgment of guilty. The judge may continue or delay
imposing a judgment and sentence for a period of time not to exceed six (6)
months from the date of sentence. At the expiration of such period of time, the
judge may allow the city attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense. If a
deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of not to exceed two
hundred dollars ($200.00) may be imposed as costs in the case. (Ord. 934, 12-
14-2000)
 
6-1-25: COMPLAINT; FAILURE TO APPEAR; COURT COSTS:
Any person, firm or corporation who files a complaint in the municipal court
against another person or persons, and fails to appear to prosecute or testify
on the complaint so filed, or moves to dismiss the same without court approval,
is liable for and shall be assessed and pay all court costs incurred in the
filing of the complaint, not to exceed the sum of ten dollars ($10.00). (2000
Code § 6-134)
 
6-1-26: JUDGMENT:
   A.   Rendered Immediately: At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered
immediately by the judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket. (2000
Code § 6-135)
   B.   Acquittal; Immediate Discharge: If judgment is of acquittal, and the
defendant is not to be detained for any other legal cause, he must be
discharged at once. (2000 Code § 6-136)
 
6-1-27: IMPRISONMENT; WORK BY PRISONERS:
   A.   Judgment Of Imprisonment: If, after conviction, judgment of
imprisonment is entered, a copy thereof certified by the clerk, shall be
delivered to the chief of police, the sheriff of the county or other
appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution
of the sentence.
   B.   Prisoners Compelled To Work: All prisoners confined to jail on
conviction or on plea of guilty may be compelled, if their health permits, to
work on the public streets, avenues, alleys, parks, buildings, or other public
premises or property. For each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited
for serving two (2) days of imprisonment under his sentence.
   C.   Supervision Of Work: The chief of police, subject to the direction of
the city manager, shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of
the department in charge of the place where the work is to be performed,
himself, or by some person designated by him, shall oversee the work. If a
guard is necessary, the chief of police shall make provision therefor. (2000
Code § 6-137)
 
6-1-28: COSTS AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEES 1 :
   A.   If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court shall tax
the costs to the defendant, which costs shall not exceed thirty dollars
($30.00) plus the fees and mileage of witnesses.
   B.   If a deferred sentence is imposed for a nontraffic related violation,
an administrative fee not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) may be
imposed as costs in the case, in addition to any deferral fee authorized by
law.
   C.   Costs of incarceration may be assessed by the court at time of
sentencing as authorized by state law. In addition, the court may assess the
costs of any medical treatment, to include transportation expenses associated
with medical treatment.
   D.   The court may impose an assessment not to exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00) for any warrant issued for failure to appear or failure to pay fines
and costs previously ordered by the court.
   1   Fines over $500.00 determined by jury trial unless waived, 11 OS § 27-
119; court costs, 11 OS § 27-129; defendant liable for costs of medical care,
11 OS § 14-113; administrative fee not to exceed $500.00 may be imposed on
deferred sentences, 11 OS § 27-122.1; costs of incarceration a debt of inmate,
22 OS § 979a; bond or security filing fee taxed to the defendant, 28 OS §
153.3.
   E.   Upon initial filing of any bond or security for a subsequent court
appearance, the municipal court clerk shall charge a fee of thirty five dollars
($35.00) which shall be assessed to the defendant as an additional court cost.
   F.   A collection fee of thirty-five (35%) of court penalties, cost fines,
and fees in cases in which the accused has failed to appear or otherwise failed
to satisfy a monetary obligation imposed by the Court shall be added to any
such case which is referred to a collection agency for collection. (Ord. 1038,
9-12-2006; amd. Ord. 1102, 7-14-2009)
 
Notes
  1. Fines over $500.00 determined by jury trial unless waived, 11 OS § 27-119;
  court costs, 11 OS § 27-129; defendant liable for costs of medical care, 11
1 OS § 14-113; administrative fee not to exceed $500.00 may be imposed on
  deferred sentences, 11 OS § 27-122.1; costs of incarceration a debt of
  inmate, 22 OS § 979a; bond or security filing fee taxed to the defendant, 28
  OS § 153.3.
6-1-29: PENALTY ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Penalty Assessment: Any person convicted of an offense punishable by a
fine of ten dollars ($10.00) or more or by incarceration, excluding parking and
standing violations, or any person forfeiting bond when charged with such an
offense, shall be ordered by the court to pay nine dollars ($9.00) as a
separate penalty assessment, which shall be in addition to and not in
substitution for any and all fines and penalties otherwise provided for by law
for such offense. The court shall provide for separate bail for the penalty
assessment. A defendant admitted to bail on an undertaking by a surety may
include the amount of the penalty assessment in the undertaking.
   B.   Administrative Fee: Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court shall
collect the penalty assessment and deposit it in an account created for that
purpose. As an administrative fee for handling funds collected as a penalty
assessment, the court is authorized to retain two percent (2%) of such monies
and may also retain all interest accrued thereon prior to the due date for
deposits as provided in this subsection. The remainder of such monies shall be
forwarded monthly by the court clerk to the state treasury. Deposits shall be
due for each month by the fifteenth day of the following month. (2000 Code § 6-
139; amd. Ord. 1066, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
   C.   Fingerprinting Fee: Any person convicted of any offense punishable by a
fine of ten dollars ($10.00) or more or by incarceration, excluding parking and
standing violations, or any person forfeiting bond when charged with such
offense shall be ordered by the court to pay a fingerprinting fee in an amount
designated by state law for each offense. The fee shall be in addition to and
not in substitution of the amount for state law enforcement officer training
fund.
   D.   Convicted Defined: As used in this section, "convicted" means any final
adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment. (2000 Code §
6-139)
TITLE 7
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
FINANCE ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE A. PURCHASES AND SALES
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Objectives Of Purchasing System
7-1A-2: Duties Of City Manager
7-1A-3: Purchasing Procedures Designated
7-1A-4: Competitive Bidding; Purchasing Committee
7-1A-5: Purchase Orders
7-1A-6: Change Orders
7-1A-7: Receiving Reports; Partial Report
7-1A-8: Invoices
7-1A-9: Exceptions To Purchasing Procedures
7-1A-10: Disposal Of Surplus And Obsolete Property
7-1A-11: Disposal Of Items In Custody Of Police
7-1A-1: OBJECTIVES OF PURCHASING SYSTEM:
   The objectives of the city purchasing system shall be as follows:
   A.   To procure materials, supplies, equipment and services other than
professional, at the lowest cost consistent with the quality and service
rendered;
   B.   To establish clearly the responsibility for the purchasing function in
the office of the city manager;
   C.   To exercise positive financial control over purchases;
   D.   To provide an efficient means for procurement of materials, supplies or
equipment which avoids duplication and overstocking; and
   E.   To establish and maintain standards of quality in materials, supplies,
equipment and services, other than professional, based on suitability for use.
(2000 Code § 7-101)
7-1A-2: DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER:
   A.   Generally: The city manager shall have the responsibility for the
following:
      1.   Establishing specifications of the equipment, materials, supplies or
services to be purchased. The city manager shall consult with the various
departments concerned, but the determination of the quality of the goods to be
purchased shall rest with the city manager.
      2.   Signing all contracts for services other than professional which may
be necessary for any of the city departments or agencies.
      3.   Assuring scheduled buying for items which are used on a volume basis
by the city. Departments shall comply with schedules distributed so that the
city manager can consolidate many departmental requests for common use items
into one large purchase.
   B.   Contracts Between Vendors And City: All contacts between the city and
the vendors' representatives shall be through the city manager. Departments
which correspond directly with a vendor on a technical matter concerning items
to be purchased shall forward copies to the city manager. (2000 Code § 7-102)
7-1A-3: PURCHASING PROCEDURES DESIGNATED:
   The procedures in sections 7-1A-5 through
7-1A-8 of this article are prescribed for obtaining materials, supplies,
equipment or services other than professional for the city. (2000 Code § 7-103)
7-1A-4: COMPETITIVE BIDDING; PURCHASING COMMITTEE:
   A.   Bidding Required; Exceptions: All items purchased shall be subject to
competitive bidding except those exempted by the city council. (2000 Code § 7-
104)
   B.   Solicitation Of Formal Bids: The city manager shall solicit bids on all
purchases costing more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Items costing
more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) shall require the submission of
written, sealed formal bids by the vendor. Telephone bids may be obtained for
items costing less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Whenever feasible,
at least three (3) bids shall be solicited on each item subject to formal
bidding. The city manager shall have the authority to approve purchases not to
exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). (Ord. 1172, 1-13-2015)
   C.   Nonconforming Bids: Bids not complying with the delivery terms and
conditions and the specifications will not be considered eligible.
   D.   Authority To Reject Bids: The city manager may reject any or all bids
if he determines that acceptance of the bids would not be in the best interests
of the city.
   E.   Time And Place Of Opening Formal Bids: All formal bids will be opened
at the time and place specified on the inquiry form and read in public. All
bidders or interested parties may attend the bid opening. A tabulation of all
bids received shall be available for the inspection of any interested party.
   F.   Awarding Of Bids; Factors Involved: The city manager shall make the
award to the lowest and best bid. In determining the lowest and best bid, the
city manager shall consider other factors beside price. These factors shall
include, but not be limited to: the trade-in value of specific makes of
equipment as opposed to another; the life expectancy of the items to be
purchased; the maintenance costs of varying models of vehicles and equipment;
the experience and reputation of the bidder and manufacturer and any previous
business dealings which the bidder has had with the city; and the quality and
adaptability of the supplies or contractual services which are bid to the
particular use required.
   G.   Additional Purchases After Bid Acceptance: The city manager may, for
ninety (90) days following the bid date, purchase additional quantities of
materials, supplies or equipment for which he has previously established the
lowest and best bid, by referring to the particular bid and confirming the
existing price with the vendor.
   H.   Purchasing Committee: The city manager, director of finance and city
attorney shall comprise the city purchasing committee. This committee shall
meet on call of the city manager and will resolve contested bids or bids where
the city manager is unable to determine which is the lowest and best bid. (2000
Code § 7-104)
7-1A-5: PURCHASE ORDERS:
   A.   Vendor Authorization: The purchase order is the vendor's authorization
to ship the equipment, materials or supplies as specified thereon. It
constitutes the contract between the city and the vendor. (2000 Code § 7-105)
   B.   Preparation Of Purchase Orders; Form: All purchase orders shall be
prepared in the office of the city manager. The city manager shall submit all
purchase orders and contracts prior to the time the commitment is made, to the
city clerk, who shall, if there be an unencumbered balance in the appropriation
made for that purpose, so certify in such form as provided by the city manager;
provided, in instances where it is impossible to ascertain the exact amount of
expenditures to be made at the time of recording the encumbrance, an estimated
amount may be used and the encumbrance made in the like manner as set forth
above. Provided, no purchase order or contract shall be valid unless signed and
approved by the city manager and certified as above set forth by the city
clerk. The city clerk shall retain and file one copy of the purchase order.
(2000 Code § 7-105; amd. Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
   C.   Submitting Invoice; Council Approval: After satisfactory delivery of
the merchandise or completion of the contract, the supplier shall deliver an
invoice. Such invoice shall state the supplier's name and address and must be
sufficiently itemized to clearly describe each item purchased, its unit price,
where applicable, the number or volume of each item purchased, total price, the
total of the purchase, and the date of the purchase. The appropriate municipal
officer shall attach the itemized invoice, together with delivery tickets,
freight tickets, or other supporting information, to the original of the
purchase order and, after approving and signing the original copy of the
purchase order, shall submit the invoices, the purchase order, and other
supporting data for consideration for payment by the city council. The city
council shall approve such invoices for payment in the amount the board
determines just and correct.
   D.   Items Not Requiring Council Approval: Notwithstanding the foregoing,
prior approval by the city council will not be required for the following:
      1.   Gross payroll, within appropriations set by the city council;
      2.   Payroll withholding and other benefits, within appropriations set by
the city council;
      3.   Contractual payments when the contract has been approved by the city
council; and
      4.   Utility service payments.
   E.   Consent Agenda For Invoice Approval: All invoices, other than those
listed herein, shall be approved prior to payment by the city council, through
approval in the consent agenda of a departmental claims list. (2000 Code § 7-
105)
7-1A-6: CHANGE ORDERS:
   The change order is used to change, correct or cancel any order. Change
orders will be prepared in the office of the city manager, using a standard
purchase order form, but will not be used to purchase items which were not
contemplated in the original bid inquiries. (2000 Code § 7-106)
7-1A-7: RECEIVING REPORTS; PARTIAL REPORT:
   A.   Procedure Concerning Receiving Report: The receiving report is a copy
of the purchase order which informs the city manager that items listed on the
purchase order have been received and are of the specified quantity and
quality. The using department will inspect materials upon their receipt, and
the receiving report will be signed by the department head and forwarded
promptly to the city manager. Any variation in quantity shall be noted on the
receiving copy of the purchase order. If the materials delivered are not in
conformity with the specifications or for other reasons are not acceptable to
the using department, they shall notify the city manager of the reasons for
withholding acceptance. The city manager will notify the vendor that his
delivery has been rejected and will order him to make a satisfactory
replacement or a supplementary delivery.
   B.   Partial Report: A partial receiving report is a form which will inform
the city clerk that part of the items listed on the purchase order have been
received. The processing of this form will allow partial payments which are
necessary to obtain certain cash discounts. (2000 Code § 7-107)
7-1A-8: INVOICES:
   A.   Statement Of Charges: An invoice is the vendor's statement of his
charges against the city for materials or services rendered. Invoices are based
on purchase orders and must contain substantially the same information.
   B.   Verification: Upon receipt of the invoice by the office of the city
clerk, it will be checked against the purchase order and the receiving report.
After this verification, the city clerk will sign the invoice indicating
approval and forward it to the department of finance for payment. (2000 Code §
7-108)
7-1A-9: EXCEPTIONS TO PURCHASING PROCEDURES:
   The following subsections are the only allowable exceptions to the city
purchasing procedures: (2000 Code § 7-109)
   A.   Emergency Purchases:
      1.   In emergency situations, the department heads may authorize the
purchase of necessary items if, to the best of their knowledge, the account to
be charged has a sufficient unencumbered balance for the amount of the
purchase. These purchases may be made directly from the vendor without a
purchase order. "Emergency situations" shall be defined as situations in which
operation of the department would be seriously hampered, or when the protection
and preservation of public properties would not be possible, by submitting a
requisition in the usual manner.
      2.   For emergency purchases necessary during normal working hours, the
department will notify the city clerk, who will give verbal approval of the
transaction and furnish advice as to the best source for the item in question.
The city clerk will also furnish the department with a purchase order number
for the items to be purchased. This number will be stated to the vendor as
evidence that the purchase has been approved by the city and for reference on
the vendor's invoice to the city.
      3.   If an emergency occurs at times other than normal working hours, the
using department may purchase directly the commodities needed.
      4.   At the time of the purchase, the department will secure from the
vendor a sales ticket or invoice for the material. A requisition will be made
out in the usual manner, except that it will be noted as "an emergency
purchase". If a purchase order number has been assigned, this number will be
referenced on the requisition. The nature of the emergency shall be given on
the requisition or on an accompanying letter, if necessary. After review by the
city clerk, a purchase order will be issued to the vendor. The vendor's copy of
the purchase order will be marked, "Confirming. Do Not Reorder".
      5.   Emergency purchase orders, because they are usually more expensive,
should be held to an absolute minimum and are not to be used to avoid
competitive bidding. (2000 Code § 7-110)
   B.   Price Agreement Purchases:
      1.   The city manager or his designated representative will consolidate
requests for materials, equipment, supplies or services which are needed by the
city on an ongoing basis, for the purpose of obtaining bids on one large order.
This will allow the city to capitalize on lower market costs for goods and
services and further eliminate unnecessary warehousing, as the supplies may be
obtained from the selected vendor at a specified price as they are needed. A
price and delivery inquiry will be sent to the vendors, which will state an
estimate of the probable needs for the commodity by the city over a certain
specified time. (2000 Code § 7-111; amd. Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
      2.   Upon the determination of the lowest and best bidder, the city clerk
will inform the vendor selected of the city's acceptance of his terms. A
contract will then be effected between the city and the vendor for the length
of time specified in the bid inquiry.
      3.   Delivery is not to be made by the vendor until he receives a valid
purchase order. (2000 Code § 7-111)
   C.   Public Auction Sales: Upon authorization by the city manager, the city
may purchase items at public auction when he determines that a substantial
savings may be realized over the current market price. The invoice for the sale
will be attached to a "request for payment" form and forwarded to the finance
department for prompt payment. (2000 Code § 7-112)
7-1A-10: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS AND OBSOLETE PROPERTY:
   Occasionally, a department may have materials or equipment which are surplus
to their needs or which may have become obsolete. Surplus city property, other
than real estate, which is to be sold, will be advertised for bids by the city
manager. Property of value less than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) may be sold by the city manager. Property of value in excess of two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) will be disposed of as directed by
council action. (Ord. 1003, 12-13-2005)
7-1A-11: DISPOSAL OF ITEMS IN CUSTODY OF POLICE:
   A.   Authority To Sell: The chief of police is authorized and directed, in
accordance with applicable law, to sell goods or other personal property which
has been confiscated or acquired in any manner by such department in the
performance of its police duties, if such goods or property have remained in
the possession of such police department for a period of at least ninety (90)
days.
   B.   Time And Place Of Sale; Notice: The sale authorized herein shall be
held whenever, in the judgment of the chief of police, there is sufficient
amount of property to justify such a sale. Such sale shall be held in the
police station of the city. Such sale shall be at public auction and notice
thereof shall be given by the publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the sale. Such
notice shall specify the date and place of sale and refer generally to property
to be sold which may be examined prior to the sale by prospective purchasers.
   C.   Disposition Of Funds: The proceeds of sales authorized and held under
the provisions of this section shall be paid into the hands of the city clerk
and become a part of the general funds of the city. (2000 Code § 7-114)
ARTICLE B. WATER AND SEWER FUND
SECTION:
7-1B-1: Water And Sewer Fund Created
7-1B-2: Deposit Of Funds
7-1B-3: Annual Audit
7-1B-1: WATER AND SEWER FUND CREATED:
   In accordance with section 1-3 of the city charter, a water and sewer fund
is created and established. (2000 Code § 7-131)
7-1B-2: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
   All revenues and expenditures which are pertaining to and which are proper
for the municipal water and sewer utilities will be separated from all other
funds and accounts of the city and maintained and deposited in a special water
and sewer fund or account, to be deposited and expended as all other funds of
the city, all as provided by law pertaining thereto. (2000 Code § 7-132)
7-1B-3: ANNUAL AUDIT:
   At the time of the annual audit of the general accounts of the city, the
funds of the water and sewer fund are to be audited and examined and the
results of the audit and examination are to be included in and become a part of
the annual audit report of the city. (2000 Code § 7-133)
CHAPTER 2
HOTEL OCCUPANCY SURCHARGE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Subsisting State Permits
7-2-3: Effective Date And Termination
7-2-4: Use Of Funds
7-2-5: Occupancy Surcharge Levied
7-2-6: Surcharge Designated
7-2-7: Operator Responsibility For Collection
7-2-8: Discount
7-2-9: Records
7-2-10: Returns
7-2-11: Payment Of Surcharge
7-2-12: Bond Required
7-2-13: Assessment And Determination Of Surcharge
7-2-14: Refunds
7-2-15: Notices
7-2-16: Remedies Exclusive
7-2-17: Treasurer; Powers
7-2-18: Registration Certificates; Certificates Of Authority
7-2-19: Administration
7-2-20: Interest
7-2-21: Records Confidential
7-2-22: Fraudulent Returns
7-2-23: Amendments
7-2-24: Provisions Cumulative
7-2-25: Payment Of Legal Fees
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   HOTEL OR MOTEL: Any building or buildings, structures, trailer, other
facility in which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping
accommodations in which three (3) or more rooms are used for the accommodation
of transient guests whether such rooms are in one or several structures and RV
spaces. The term shall include hotels, apartment hotels, motels, tourist homes,
houses or courts, lodging houses, bed and breakfast inns, rooming houses,
trailer houses, trailer motels, apartments and sleeping rooms not occupied by
"permanent residents", RV spaces and all other facilities where rooms or
sleeping accommodations or spaces are furnished for consideration. The term
shall not include hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, university dormitories
or other educational or charitable institutions.
   OCCUPANCY: The use or possession of, or the right to use or possess, any
room or rooms in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the
furnishings, or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and
possession of the room or rooms.
   OCCUPANT: A person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the
right to use or possess any room or rooms in a hotel under any lease,
concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement.
   OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel in the city, including, but not
limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
   RENT: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
   RETURN: Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
   ROOM: Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which
is available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. As used herein, "place of assembly" means a room or space
which is not capable of being occupied for lodging purposes and which is used
for educational, recreational or amusement purposes and shall include: dance
halls; cabarets; nightclubs; restaurants; any room, space for public or private
banquets, feasts, socials, or card parties, or weddings; lodge and meeting
halls or rooms; skating rinks; gymnasiums; swimming pools; billiards, bowling,
table tennis rooms; halls or rooms used for public or private catering
purposes; funeral parlors; markets; recreational rooms; concert halls;
broadcasting studios; and all other places of similar types of occupancy.
   SURCHARGE: The surcharge levied pursuant to this chapter.
   TREASURER: The treasurer of the city of Seminole. (2000 Code § 7-704)
7-2-2: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purposes of
this chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any
requirement for an additional city permit for the same purpose. (2000 Code § 7-
702)
7-2-3: EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION:
   This chapter shall become and be effective on or after March 4, 1997,
subject to approval of a majority of the registered voters of the city voting
on the same in the manner prescribed by law; provided that upon approval of the
voters as required herein, this chapter shall remain in effect and not be
repealed unless repealed by a majority of the registered voters of the city
voting to repeal same in the manner as required for its approval. (2000 Code §
7-703)
7-2-4: USE OF FUNDS:
   Funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be set
aside and used exclusively for one or more of the following purposes:
   A.   Encouraging, promoting and fostering visitor and tourism conventions,
conferences and tourism development in the city.
   B.   Solicitation of visitor attractions, events, tourism, conferences,
conventions and meetings in the city. (2000 Code § 7-705)
7-2-5: OCCUPANCY SURCHARGE LEVIED:
   There is hereby levied an occupancy surcharge of four percent (4%), with a
minimum of one dollar ($1.00) upon the gross proceeds or gross receipts derived
from all occupied rooms per night upon the service of furnishing rooms by
hotels or motels within the city. This surcharge shall be in addition to any
existing sales taxes imposed by the city or the state of Oklahoma. (2000 Code §
7-706)
7-2-6: SURCHARGE DESIGNATED:
   The operator shall separately designate, charge and show all surcharges on
all bills, statements, receipts or any other evidence of charges or payment of
rent for occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. (2000 Code § 7-707)
7-2-7: OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR COLLECTION:
   The operator shall be responsible for the collection of the surcharge from
the occupant and shall be liable to the city for the surcharge. (2000 Code § 7-
708)
7-2-8: DISCOUNT:
   In order to compensate an operator for keeping surcharge records, filing
reports, remitting the surcharge when due, a discount equal to that allowed by
the Oklahoma tax commission for the collection of sales tax shall be allowed
upon all surcharges paid prior to the time they become delinquent. (2000 Code §
7-709)
7-2-9: RECORDS:
   It shall be the duty of every operator required to make a return and pay any
surcharge under this chapter to keep and preserve suitable records of the gross
daily rentals together with other pertinent records and documents which may be
necessary to determine the amount of surcharge due hereunder, and such other
records as will substantiate and prove the accuracy of such returns. All
records shall remain in the city and be preserved for a period of three (3)
years, unless the treasurer, in writing, has authorized their destruction or
disposal at an earlier date, and shall be open to examination at any time by
the treasurer or by any of his duly authorized agents. The burden of proving
that a sale was not a surchargeable sale shall be upon the operator who makes
the sale. (2000 Code § 7-710)
7-2-10: RETURNS:
   A.   Filing Of Return; Payment Of Surcharge: The surcharge levied hereunder
shall be due and payable to the treasurer on the first day of each month,
except as herein provided, by any person liable for the payment of any
surcharge due under this chapter. For the purpose of ascertaining the amount of
the surcharge payable under this chapter, it shall be the duty of all
operators, on or before the twentieth day of each month, to deliver to the
treasurer, upon forms prescribed and furnished by him returns, under oath,
showing the gross receipts or gross proceeds arising from rents received from
occupancy of hotel rooms during the preceding calendar month. Such returns
shall show such further information as the treasurer may require to correctly
compute and collect the surcharge herein levied. In addition to the information
required on returns, the treasurer may request and the operator shall furnish
any information as deemed necessary for a correct computation of the surcharge
levied herein. Such operator shall compute and remit to the treasurer the
required surcharge due for the preceding calendar month. The remittance or
remittances of the surcharge shall accompany the returns herein required. If
not paid on or before the twenty first of the such months, the surcharge shall
be delinquent after such date; provided, that no interest or penalty shall be
charged on such return filed on or before the twentieth day of such month.
   B.   Treasurer Authority; Amended Returns: The treasurer may permit or
require returns to be made by shorter or longer periods and upon such dates as
he may specify. The form of return shall be prescribed by the treasurer and
shall contain such information as he may deem necessary for the proper
administration of this chapter. The treasurer may require amended returns to be
filed within twenty (20) days after notice, which amended return shall contain
the information specified in the notice. (2000 Code § 7-711)
7-2-11: PAYMENT OF SURCHARGE:
   At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator
shall pay to the treasurer the surcharge imposed by this chapter upon the rents
included in such return, as well as by all other monies collected by the
operator acting or purporting to act under the provisions of this chapter.
(2000 Code § 7-712)
7-2-12: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Where the treasurer believes that any operator is about to cease
business, leave the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other
similar reason he deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under this
chapter, he may require such operator to file with the city a bond issued by a
surety company authorized to transact business in this state in such amount as
the treasurer may fix to secure the payment of any surcharge or penalties and
interest due, or which may become due, from such operator.
   B.   In the event that the treasurer determines that an operator is to file
such bond, he shall give notice to such operator specifying the amount of bond
required, which shall in no event exceed twice the amount of the sum in
controversy. The operator shall file such bond within five (5) days after
receiving such notice unless within such five (5) days the operator shall
request in writing a hearing before the city council at which time the
necessity and amount of the bond shall be determined by the city council. Such
determination shall be final and shall be complied with within fifteen (15)
days thereafter. (2000 Code § 7-713)
   C.   In lieu of such bond, securities approved by the treasurer, or cash in
such amount as he may prescribe may be deposited with the treasurer who may at
any time after five (5) days' notice to the depositor apply them to any
surcharge and/or any penalties due, and for that purpose the securities may be
sold at private or public sale. (2000 Code § 7-713; amd. Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008,
eff. 5-8-2008)
7-2-13: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF SURCHARGE:
   A.   If a return required by this chapter is not filed, or if a return when
filed is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of surcharge due shall be
assessed by the treasurer from such information as may be obtainable and, if
necessary, the surcharge may be estimated on the basis of external indices,
such as:
      1.   Number of rooms;
      2.   Location;
      3.   Scale of rents;
      4.   Comparable rents;
      5.   Types of accommodations and services;
      6.   Number of employees; or
      7.   Other factors. (2000 Code § 7-714)
   B.   Written notice of such assessments shall be given to the person liable
for the collection and payment of the surcharge. Such assessment shall finally
and irrevocably fix and determine the surcharge unless the person against whom
it is assessed, within ninety (90) days after the giving of notice of such
assessment, shall apply in writing to the city council for a hearing, or unless
the treasurer, upon his own initiative, shall reassess the same. After such
hearing, the city council shall give written notice of its determination to the
person against whom the surcharge is assessed, and such determination shall be
final. (2000 Code § 7-714; amd. Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
7-2-14: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure: The treasurer shall refund or credit any surcharge
erroneously, illegally, or unconstitutionally collected if written application
to the treasurer for such refund shall be made within ninety (90) days from the
date of payment thereof. For like causes and in the same period, a refund may
be made upon the initiative and the order of the treasurer. Whenever a refund
is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in writing. Such application may
be made by the person upon whom such surcharge was imposed and who has actually
paid the surcharge. Such application may also be made by the person who has
collected and paid such surcharge to the treasurer; provided, that the
application is made within ninety (90) days of the payment by the occupant to
the operator, but no refund of money shall be made to the operator until he has
repaid to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is made.
The treasurer, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow credit
therefor on payments due from the applicant. (2000 Code § 7-715)
   B.   Determination And Hearing: Upon application for a refund, the treasurer
may receive evidence with respect thereto and make such investigation as he
deems necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the treasurer
shall give notice thereof to the applicant. Such determination shall be final
unless the applicant, within ninety (90) days after such notice, shall apply in
writing to the city council for a hearing. After such hearing, the city council
shall give written notice of its decision to the applicant. (2000 Code § 7-715;
amd. Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
7-2-15: NOTICES:
   Any notice provided for under this chapter shall be deemed to have been
given when such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or
deposited in the United States mail addressed to the last known address of the
operator. (2000 Code § 7-716)
7-2-16: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
   The remedies provided in this chapter shall be exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of surcharge liability imposed by this chapter.
(2000 Code § 7-717)
7-2-17: TREASURER; POWERS:
   In addition to all other powers granted to the treasurer, he is hereby
authorized and empowered:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
collection of surcharges pursuant to this chapter;
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding sixty (60) days; and, for cause shown, to waive, remit or reduce
penalties or interest;
   C.   To delegate his function hereunder to an assistant or other employee or
employees of the city;
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the surcharges
imposed by this chapter;
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the surchargeable and
nonsurchargeable rents. (2000 Code § 7-718)
7-2-18: REGISTRATION CERTIFICATES; CERTIFICATES OF AUTHORITY:
   A.   Registration: Every operator shall file with the treasurer a
registration certificate in a form prescribed by said treasurer within ten (10)
days after the effective date hereof or, in the case of operators commencing
business or opening new hotels after such effective date, within three (3) days
after such commencement or opening. The treasurer shall, within five (5) days
after the filing of such certificate, issue without charge to each operator a
certificate of authority empowering such operator to collect the surcharge from
the occupant and duplicates thereof for each additional hotel.
   B.   Authority: Each certificate or duplicate shall state the hotel to which
it is applicable. Such certificate of authority shall be permanently displayed
by the operator in such manner that it may be seen and come to the notice of
all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such certificates shall be
nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the
treasurer upon the cessation of business at the hotel, or upon its sale or
transfer. (2000 Code § 7-719)
7-2-19: ADMINISTRATION:
   One-half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts derived from surcharges
collected pursuant to this chapter shall be retained by the office of the
treasurer for the purpose of administering and collecting the surcharge. (2000
Code § 7-720)
7-2-20: INTEREST:
   If any surcharge levied by this chapter becomes delinquent, the person
responsible and liable for such surcharge shall pay interest on such unpaid
surcharge at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month on the
unpaid balance from the date of delinquency until said unpaid balance is paid
in full. (2000 Code § 7-721)
7-2-21: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the surcharge is legislatively recognized and declared;
and to protect the same, the provision of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 of
the state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to the administration of this
chapter as if herein set forth. (2000 Code § 7-722)
7-2-22: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
   The wilful failure or refusal of any operator to make reports and
remittances herein required, or the making of any false or fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any surcharge or a portion
thereof rightfully due under this chapter shall be an offense against the city.
(2000 Code § 7-723)
7-2-23: AMENDMENTS:
   The people of Seminole, by their approval of this chapter at the election
herein provided, hereby authorize the city council, by ordinance duly enacted,
to make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method
and manner of administering and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or
proper for efficiency and fairness, except that the rate of the surcharge
herein provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified voters
of the city as provided by law. (2000 Code § 7-724)
7-2-24: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of city ordinances. (2000 Code § 7-725)
7-2-25: PAYMENT OF LEGAL FEES:
   In the event a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction is caused to be
filed, either on behalf of or against the city of Seminole and said cause is
the direct result of the operator violating the conditions, stipulations or
requirements hereinbefore set forth, the operator shall pay all attorney fees
and costs incurred by the city, as well as monies authorized to be collected
hereby in payment thereof, regardless of whether said cause was for the purpose
of enforcing or defending the provisions of this chapter. (2000 Code § 7-727;
amd. Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
CHAPTER 3
SALES TAX
SECTION:
7-3-1: Title
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Tax Collector Defined
7-3-4: Classification Of Taxpayers
7-3-5: Subsisting State Permits
7-3-6: Effective Date
7-3-7: Tax Imposed; Rates; Effective Dates; Purposes
7-3-8: Sales Subject To Tax; Exemptions
7-3-9: Tax Due And Payable; Returns; Records
7-3-10: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
7-3-11: Tax Constitutes Debt
7-3-12: Vendor's Duty To Collect Tax; Penalties
7-3-13: Returns And Remittances; Discounts
7-3-14: Classification Of Vendors
7-3-15: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
7-3-16: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
7-3-17: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
7-3-18: Fraudulent Returns
7-3-19: Records Confidential
7-3-20: Amendments
7-3-21: Provisions Cumulative
7-3-1: TITLE:
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as CITY OF SEMINOLE SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (2000 Code § 7-301)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma sales
tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter. (2000 Code § 7-302)
7-3-3: TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED:
   The term "tax collector" as used in this chapter means the department of the
city or the official agency of the state duly designated according to law or
contract, and authorized by law, to administer the collection of the tax levied
in this chapter. (2000 Code § 7-303)
7-3-4: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
   For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma sales tax
code. (2000 Code § 7-304)
7-3-5: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the OTC pursuant
to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purpose of this chapter, hereby
ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an additional
city permit for the same purpose. (2000 Code § 7-305)
7-3-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
   This chapter became effective as to each cent tax after approval of a
majority of the registered voters of the city voting on the ordinance in the
manner prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-112. (2000 Code § 7-306)
7-3-7: TAX IMPOSED; RATES; EFFECTIVE DATES; PURPOSES:
The following city sales taxes, in the total amount of four percent (4%), shall
be imposed and effective as indicated, unless otherwise extended by a vote of
the people. Said taxes have been approved by a majority of the registered
voters of the city voting on same in elections conducted in the manner
prescribed by Oklahoma Statutes:
   A.   General Use: It is the purpose of the first and second cent sales taxes
to provide revenues for the general use and benefit of the municipal government
of the city. The following ordinances provided for the levy of the first and
second cent sales taxes:
      Ordinance 432, effective January 1967
      Ordinance 570, approved September 9, 1975
   B.   Capital Improvements; Economic Development: It hereby is declared to be
the purpose of the revenues provided by the one percent (1%) excise tax levied
by this Ordinance to provide funds for constructing, equipping, operating and
maintaining a family entertainment and recreational center facility; for the
purpose of providing capital improvements to parks, streets, water system and
sewer lines, ambulance services, senior citizen facilities and downtown
renovation; for the purpose of providing funds for economic development within
or near the City of Seminole; for the purpose of retiring certain outstanding
indebtedness of The Seminole Utilities Authority; and for paying principal and
interest on indebtedness incurred on behalf of the City for the foregoing
purposes, Said one percent (1%) sales tax shall cease to be collected after the
indebtedness incurred for the foregoing purposes shall have been paid or when
sufficient funds shall have been collected from said levy to retire such
indebtedness, or October 1, 2052, whichever shall be earlier.
   C.   Capital Improvements; Economic Development: It is hereby declared to be
the purpose of the revenues provided by the continued levy of the one-half
percent (0.5%) excise tax levied by this subsection to provide revenue for
capital improvements of the city, and for economic development within or near
the city; and for payment of the principal of and interest on indebtedness
incurred on behalf of the city for said purposes. Said additional one-half
percent (0.5%) shall cease to be collected after March 31, 2022.
   D.   Capital Improvements; Emergency Services Equipment: It is hereby
declared to be the purpose of the revenues provided by the one-half percent (1/
2%) excise tax levied by this subsection to provide revenues for the purpose of
acquiring emergency services equipment, funding ambulance operations, providing
capital improvements of the city of Seminole, Oklahoma, including, but not
limited to, street improvements and expansion of the water play system and to
make deposits in relation to indebtedness incurred on behalf of said city for
such purposes. Said one-half percent (1/2%) sales tax shall cease to be
collected after October 1, 2030. (Ord. 824, 1-31-1995; amd. Ord. 859, 6-25-
1996; Ord. 887, 4-6-1998; 2000 Code § 7-307; Ord. 968, 12-23-2003; Ord. 1036,
5-24-2006, eff. 8-1-2006; Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-200; Ord. 1119, 6-23-
2010, eff. 10-1-2010; Ord. 1283, 11-8-2022)
7-3-8: SALES SUBJECT TO TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
   The city sales tax shall be levied upon the gross receipts or gross proceeds
of such sales as specified by Oklahoma Statutes, and exemptions from such taxes
shall be allowed pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-
2008)
7-3-9: TAX DUE AND PAYABLE; RETURNS; RECORDS:
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the
Oklahoma sales tax code. (2000 Code § 7-315)
7-3-10: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax. (2000 Code
§ 7-316)
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the tax
collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
city and the tax collector, in the collection of both the city sales tax and
the state sales tax. (2000 Code § 7-316; amd. Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-
2008)
7-3-11: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
   The taxes, penalty and interest due under this chapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2000 Code
§ 7-317)
7-3-12: VENDOR'S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX; PENALTIES:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It is the duty of each and every vendor in this city to collect from
the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter, or an
amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and, when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner
as other debts. (2000 Code § 7-318)
   C.   A vendor who wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to
collect the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter, or wilfully or
intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions or
remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or indirectly, and by
whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied, or makes in any
form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which infers that he
is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user by an
adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code §
7-318; amd. Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
   D.   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the city. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 7-318)
7-3-13: RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS:
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the Oklahoma sales tax code
for collection of state sales taxes. (2000 Code § 7-319)
7-3-14: CLASSIFICATION OF VENDORS:
   Vendors shall be classified in the manner provided for classification of
taxpayers in the state sales tax code. (2000 Code § 7-320)
7-3-15: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY:
   Title 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of
this chapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this chapter. The failure or refusal of
any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the
time and manner required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
In addition, if the delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the
taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this chapter.
(2000 Code § 7-321)
7-3-16: WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in administration
of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220. To
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(2000 Code § 7-322)
7-3-17: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
   Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish
the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said section 227 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter. (2000 Code § 7-
323)
7-3-18: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this chapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine and imprisonment as provided in section 1-
1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 7-324)
7-3-19: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of the state sales tax code,
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby
adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration
of the city sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (2000 Code § 7-325)
7-3-20: AMENDMENTS:
   The people of the city, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance, hereby
authorize the city council, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the city as provided by law. (2000 Code § 7-326)
7-3-21: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
   The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of city ordinances. (2000 Code § 7-327)
CHAPTER 4
NATURAL GAS UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
7-4-1: License Tax Required
7-4-2: Exemptions From Tax
7-4-3: Due Dates
7-4-4: Failure To Make Payment
7-4-1: LICENSE TAX REQUIRED:
   Any person, his heirs or assigns, engaged in the business of furnishing
natural gas to residential and commercial users in the city, as compensation
for the privileges and rights enjoyed in using the streets and alleys of the
city by installing pipe or other mechanisms, either above or below the ground
on the streets and alleys, shall pay to the city an annual tax in the sum of
two percent (2%) of the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of
natural gas in the city. (2000 Code § 7-401)
7-4-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   The tax so levied shall apply to all persons engaged in the business of
furnishing natural gas in the city, except it shall not apply to any person
operating under a valid franchise from the city; which tax shall be in lieu of
any other franchise, license, occupation or excise tax levied by the city.
(2000 Code § 7-402)
7-4-3: DUE DATES:
   The tax shall be payable quarterly, on October 1, January 1, April 1 and
July 1 of each year. (2000 Code § 7-403)
7-4-4: FAILURE TO MAKE PAYMENT:
   Any person failing or refusing to pay the tax so levied as aforesaid is a
trespasser and may be ousted from the city, and in addition thereto, action
shall be brought by the city against such person for the amount of the tax due
and payable and all expenses of collecting the same, including a reasonable
attorney fee. (2000 Code § 7-404)
CHAPTER 5
TELEPHONE EXCHANGES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Right To Use Public Property
7-5-2: Inspection Fee And Service Charge
7-5-3: Use Of Facilities
7-5-1: RIGHT TO USE PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   The owners of telephone lines operating in the state are granted the right
to use the public grounds, streets, highways and alleys subject to the control
of the proper city authorities under their police power as to what ground,
street, alley and highway the lines shall run over and across and the place the
poles to support the wires are located; and whereas the proper performance of
the police power of the city in exercising such control of the use of the
streets and alleys in the city, and the inspection of the construction of
telephone lines and equipment and the location thereof, both over and under the
ground, the city incurs expense and renders service therewith which should be
borne and compensated for by the owners of the telephone lines. (2000 Code § 7-
501)
7-5-2: INSPECTION FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE:
   There is levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each and
every person, firm and corporation operating a telephone exchange in the city,
in the sum of two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each current year for
exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within the city limits,
to compensate the city for the expenses incurred and services rendered incident
to the exercise of its police power, supervision, police regulation and police
control of the construction of lines and equipment of the telephone company in
the city. The fee shall be due and payable to the city on or before May 1 of
each year, and shall be paid into and appropriated and expended from the
general revenue fund of the city. (2000 Code § 7-502)
7-5-3: USE OF FACILITIES:
   During the continued compliance with the terms of this chapter by the owner
of any telephone exchange, the charge levied is and continues to be in lieu of
all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license, privilege and permit fees
or taxes or assessments except ad valorem taxes. However, this provision and
chapter is not intended to extinguish or abrogate any existing arrangement
whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduit, duct space or pole
contacts of the company for the fire alarm and police call systems of the city.
(2000 Code § 7-503)
CHAPTER 6
USE TAX
SECTION:
7-6-1: Title
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Tax Levied; Rate
7-6-4: Purpose Of Revenues
7-6-5: Exemptions
7-6-6: Tax Due And Payable
7-6-7: Tax Constitutes Debt
7-6-8: Manner Of Collecting Tax
7-6-9: Revocation Of Permit And License
7-6-10: Remunerative Deductions Allowed
7-6-11: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
7-6-12: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
7-6-13: Erroneous Payments, Claim For Refund
7-6-14: Fraudulent Returns
7-6-15: Records Confidential
7-6-16: Classification Of Taxpayers
7-6-17: Subsisting State Permits
7-6-18: Provisions Cumulative
7-6-1: TITLE:
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF SEMINOLE USE
TAX. (2000 Code § 7-601)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use
tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter. In addition thereto, the following words and
terms shall be defined as follows:
   TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the city government or the official agency
of the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law,
to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
   TRANSACTION: Sale. (2000 Code § 7-602)
7-6-3: TAX LEVIED; RATE:
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the city tangible, personal property
purchased or brought into this city, an excise tax on the storage, use or other
consuming within the city of such property at the rate of four percent (4%) of
the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the city, tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into the city. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the city and shall be assessed to only property purchased outside
Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the city, but which
is stored in the city pending shipment outside the city or which is temporarily
retained in the city for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the
tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the city had been levied on the sale of such goods or services. (2000 Code § 7-
603; amd. Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
7-6-4: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city, and
any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body of
the city for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as
authorized. (2000 Code § 7-604)
7-6-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   Exemptions from the tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be allowed
pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes. (Ord. 1079, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
7-6-6: TAX DUE AND PAYABLE:
   The tax levied by this chapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax
code of the state of Oklahoma. (2000 Code § 7-606)
7-6-7: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
   Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2000 Code § 7-607)
7-6-8: MANNER OF COLLECTING TAX:
   A.   Retailer Or Vendor: Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of
business both within and without the state, and making sales of tangible,
personal property from a place of business outside this state for use in this
city shall at the time of making such sales collect the use tax levied by this
chapter from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the
manner and form prescribed by the tax commission, if the tax commission shall,
by regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with
the tax commission the name and address of all his agents operating in this
city and location of any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or
other places of business in the city. (2000 Code § 7-608)
   B.   Retailer Or Vendor Not Maintaining Place Of Business Within State Or
Both Within And Without State, Permit:
      1.   The tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible, personal property for use in this city and by the out of state place
of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both
within and without this state and making sales of tangible, personal property
in such out of state place of business for use in this city.
      2.   Such retailer or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to
collect such taxes by the tax commission in such manner and subject to such
regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall
be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible,
personal property sold to his knowledge for use within this city.
      3.   Such authority and permit may be cancelled when at any time the tax
commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected from the
person using such property in this city. Provided, however, that in all
instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the purchaser
within this city by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or vendor's
vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales or
transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable city sales tax at the
point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported under taxpayer's
sales tax permit number accordingly. (2000 Code § 7-609)
7-6-9: REVOCATION OF PERMIT AND LICENSE:
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or
the Oklahoma use tax code, or any orders, rules or regulations of the tax
commission, the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order, revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel the corporation's license to do business in this
state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this chapter, the Oklahoma use tax code, or any
orders, rules or regulations of the tax commission. (2000 Code § 7-610)
7-6-10: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED:
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code;
and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by the code for the collection of state use taxes.
(2000 Code § 7-611)
7-6-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY:
   Title 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of
this chapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as
therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of
delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this chapter. Provided,
that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this chapter
shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency
continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit
his claim to any discount allowed under this chapter. (2000 Code § 7-612)
7-6-12: WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer's or vendor's failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 220, and to accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable
provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this chapter. (2000 Code § 7-613)
7-6-13: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS, CLAIM FOR REFUND:
   Refund of erroneous payment of the city use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(2000 Code § 7-614)
7-6-14: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this chapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. Each day
of noncompliance with this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. (2000
Code § 7-615)
7-6-15: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 205 of the state use tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby
adopted by reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration
of the city use tax as is herein set forth in full. (2000 Code § 7-616)
7-6-16: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
   For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(2000 Code § 7-617)
7-6-17: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the tax commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are for the purpose of this chapter
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional city permit for the same purpose. (2000 Code § 7-618)
7-6-18: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
   The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative, and in addition to any
and all other taxing provisions of the city ordinances. (2000 Code § 7-619)
TITLE 8
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
WEEDS AND TRASH
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Accumulation Of Weeds Or Trash Unlawful
8-1-3: Citation And Penalty
8-1-4: Abatement Procedure; Assessment Of Costs
8-1-5: Recovering Costs; Lien; Filing
8-1-6: Waiver Of Competitive Bids For Mowing
8-1-7: Depositing Rubbish Unlawful
8-1-8: Burning Prohibited; Exception
8-1-9: Removal Of Dead Animals
8-1-10: Littering
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter:
   OCCUPANT: Any person that occupies, resides, rents, leases or otherwise is
in possession or has control of the premises.
   OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
material, rubbish, offal, waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared
for, discarded or abandoned.
   WEEDS: Includes but is not limited to poison ivy, poison oak or poison sumac
and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
   A.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs, or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, safety and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
   B.   Harbors, conceals or invites deposits or accumulation of refuse or
trash, regardless of height;
   C.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
   D.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odor;
   E.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
   F.   Is dead or diseased.
   The term "weed" shall not include tended crops of land zoned for
agricultural use. (Ord. 1194, 9-13-2016)
8-1-2: ACCUMULATION OF WEEDS OR TRASH UNLAWFUL:
   A.   No person shall permit any piece of property, platted or unplatted,
regardless of type or zoning, owned, occupied or controlled by him, his agent
or a person who has charge thereof, to become covered or overgrown with weeds,
and the continued existence of such weeds, growths or accumulation of trash
shall constitute a public nuisance.
   B.   Whenever private property abuts a public right-of-way or easement
belonging to the City of Seminole, or any public entity, and there exists in
such right-of-way or easement a tree lawn or grassy area between the private
property line and the midline of said right-of-way or easement, then such tree
lawn or grassy area shall be considered, for the purposes of this section
requiring cutting of grass and weeds, to be a part of the private lot which
abuts the right-of-way or easement, and it shall be the duty of those
responsible under this section for the maintenance of the private lot to
equally maintain the tree lawn or grassy area within the abutting right-of-way
or easement, and all of the provisions of this section shall apply with equal
force to said tree lawn or grassy area.
   C.   Nothing in these provisions shall preclude any offender from being
cited with either criminal or civil penalties, or both, for said offense. (Ord.
1194, 9-13-2016)
8-1-3: CITATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Citation: Any police, fire or Code Enforcement Officer of the City who
discovers an accumulation of trash or weeds upon any premises within the
corporate limits of the City may issue a criminal citation to the owner or
occupant of the premises as defined by section 8-1-1 of this chapter for any
violation in this chapter.
   B.   Violation: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or up to ten (10) days' imprisonment, or
by both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, the court may impose a term of
community service not to exceed twenty (20) hours.
   C.   Second Or Subsequent Violation: Upon a second or subsequent violation,
of this section, said offender shall be punished by a fine of not less than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), or up to thirty (30) days' imprisonment, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. In addition, the court may impose a term of community service not
to exceed forty (40) hours.
   D.   Abatement By City: In addition to any criminal penalties imposed, the
City may abate the nuisance in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
(Ord. 1194, 9-13-2016)
8-1-4: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
County Treasurer's Office before the City may abate the nuisance. At the time
of mailing of the notice to the property owner, the Municipality shall obtain a
receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the
date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. Concurrent with the
mailing of the letter, the property shall be posted. Notice may also be given
by publication one time not less than ten (10) days prior to any action by the
Municipality.
   B.   If the owner fails to abate the nuisance after notice, the City may
cause the nuisance to be abated. After the abatement process is completed, the
City Clerk, or a designee of the City Clerk, shall file a Notice of Lien with
the County Clerk describing the property and certifying that the City claims a
lien on such property for the costs of mowing, cleaning and/or any other costs
associated with abatement of the nuisance. The City Clerk or his designee, may
forward to the property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax
rolls in the County Treasurer's Office by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a statement of actual costs including the mowing, cleaning, removal,
court costs and administrative assessments.
   C.   If the City causes the abatement of weeds or other noxious or injurious
growths on any property in accordance with the procedures provided for in this
section, any subsequent accumulations of weeds or other noxious or injurious
growths on the property occurring within a six-month period may be declared to
be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the
property owner. At the time of the summary abatement, the Municipality shall
notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs thereof. (Ord. 1194,
9-13-2016)
8-1-5: RECOVERING COSTS; LIEN; FILING:
   A.   Costs of abatement may be assessed against any Municipal utility
account in the name of the owner or occupant. Utility services may be suspended
for non-payment. Re-establishment of services shall be in accordance with
established policies.
   B.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, a certified statement of the amount of costs may be
forwarded to the County Treasurer of Seminole County and such costs may be
levied on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as an ad valorem
tax. (Ord. 1194, 9-13-2016)
8-1-6: WAIVER OF COMPETITIVE BIDS FOR MOWING:
   A.   For purposes of this chapter, the City shall maintain a list of all
contractors wanting to be considered for removal of trash and cutting or mowing
high weeds and grass. The contractors shall be used on a rotation basis without
requirement of competitive bidding. (Ord. 1194, 9-13-2016)
8-1-7: DEPOSITING RUBBISH UNLAWFUL:
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit or remove any
rubbish, trash, slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush or
any other refuse or waste matter in any street, avenue, alley, ditch,
watercourse or dumpster/polycart owned/leased by another, or upon the premises
of another, or upon any public grounds in the City. (Ord. 976, 6-8-2004)
8-1-8: BURNING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
   It is unlawful to wilfully burn any trash or refuse of any type material
within the City, except upon prior approval by the Fire Chief or his designee.
(Ord. 928, 8-8-2000; amd. Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
8-1-9: REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
   The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in the City shall,
within twenty four (24) hours after the death of such animal, remove its
carcass. Failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 928, 8-8-2000)
8-1-10: LITTERING:
   A.   Definition: "Littering" is defined as throwing any trash, refuse,
wastepaper, tin cans, bottles, or any other object or substance whatever upon
the public streets, alleys, roadways and sidewalks of the City or upon any real
property owned or occupied by another.
   B.   General Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to litter.
   C.   Littering From Automobiles: It is unlawful for any person to throw from
any automobile or motor vehicle being operated and driven upon and over the
streets, alleys and roadways of the City any litter, trash, wastepaper, tin
cans or any other substance or refuse whatever.
   D.   Litter Accumulation On Property:
      1.   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation occupying any real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow
trash, wastepaper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or
disposed of objects to accumulate upon such real property or premises being so
occupied or rented to such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation occupying any
real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow accumulated trash,
wastepaper, litter objects, bottles, tin cans or any other used or disposed of
objects to be carried from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements
or otherwise to any adjoining or other real estate not so owned or occupied by
the offender. (Ord. 928, 8-8-2000)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Nuisance Defined; Public And Private Nuisances
8-2-2: Persons Responsible
8-2-3: Time Does Not Legalize
8-2-4: Remedies Against Nuisances
8-2-5: City Power To Define And Summarily Abate Nuisances
8-2-6: Certain Public Nuisances Defined
8-2-7: Notice To Abate Nuisance
8-2-8: Contents Of Notice; Method Of Service
8-2-9: Abatement By City; Statement Of Costs
8-2-10: Liability
8-2-11: Request For Hearing And Appeal
8-2-12: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
8-2-13: Abatement By Suit In District Court
8-2-14: Nuisance Unlawful; Citation Issuance
8-2-15: Health Nuisances; Abatement
8-2-16: Procedure Cumulative
8-2-17: Toilet Facilities Required; Nuisance
8-2-18: Accumulation Of Filth Unlawful
8-2-19: Slaughterhouse Restrictions
8-2-20: Junked Vehicles; Time Limit On Property
8-2-21: Penalty
8-2-22: Penalty For Dangerous Structures
8-2-23: Penalty For Junked Or Abandoned Vehicles
8-2-1: NUISANCE DEFINED; PUBLIC AND PRIVATE NUISANCES:
   A.   Generally: A "nuisance" is unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to
perform a duty, or is any thing or condition which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   Provided, however, this definition shall not apply to preexisting
agricultural activities. (2000 Code § 8-401; amd. Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-
7-2008)
   B.   Public Nuisance: A "public nuisance" is one which affects at the same
time an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals
may be unequal.
   C.   Private Nuisance: Every nuisance not included in subsection B of this
section is a "private nuisance". (2000 Code § 8-401)
8-2-2: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE:
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (2000 Code
§ 8-402)
8-2-3: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (2000 Code § 8-403)
8-2-4: REMEDIES AGAINST NUISANCES:
   A.   Public Nuisances: The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 12;
or
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (2000 Code § 8-
404)
   B.   Private Nuisances: The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; and
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 14
and 15; or
         b.   By the city in accordance with law or ordinance. (2000 Code § 8-
405)
8-2-5: CITY POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES:
   As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the city has power to
determine what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate
limits and, for the protection of the public health, the public parks, and the
public water supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical
to do so, the city has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after
notice to the owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be
done. (2000 Code § 8-406)
8-2-6: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED:
   A.   Public Nuisances Enumerated: In addition to other public nuisances
declared by other sections of this code or law, the following are hereby
declared to be public nuisances:
      1.   Unwholesome Food Or Drink; Odor Causing Conditions:
         a.   The sale, or offering for sale, of unwholesome food or drink; or
the keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made. (2000 Code § 8-
407)
         b.   Any unwholesome food, liquor or adulterated medicines, and all
cattle, horses, swine pens, stables, enclosures or any place in which such
animals may be kept, confined or placed, which may have become offensive to
persons residing in the vicinity, or to the public. (2000 Code § 8-423)
      2.   Liquor Violations 1 : The sale, offering for sale, or furnishing of
alcoholic liquor and low point beer in violation of the state law or ordinances
of the city, or keeping of a place where alcoholic liquor and low point beer
are sold, offered for sale, or furnished in violation of the state law or
ordinances of the city. (2000 Code § 8-407; amd. Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-
2008)
      3.   Obscene Materials: The exposure, display, sale, or distribution of
obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or
the keeping of a place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed.
      4.   Gambling Places: The keeping of a place where persons gamble,
whether by cards, slot machines, punchboards or otherwise.
      5.   Houses Of Prostitution: The keeping of a place where prostitution,
illicit sexual intercourse, or other immoral acts are practiced.
      6.   Places Where Unlawful Activities Practiced: The keeping of a place
where activities in violation of state law or ordinance are practiced or
carried on.
      7.   Public Dances: The conduct or holding of public dances in violation
of the ordinances of the city; or the keeping of a place where such dances are
held.
      8.   Diseased Persons: The public exposure of a person having a
contagious disease.
      9.   Noise: The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy
persons of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such
noises.
      10.   Interference With Wireless Reception: The operation or use of any
electrical apparatus or machine which materially or unduly interferes with
radio or television reception by others.
      11.   Assemblies Obstructing Traffic: Any use of a street or sidewalk or
a place adjacent thereto which causes crowds of people to gather so as to
obstruct traffic on such street or sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs
traffic thereon, except as may be authorized by law or ordinance.
      12.   Water, Snow And Ice:
         a.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow
to fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk.
         b.   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks twenty four
(24) hours after the snow and ice has ceased being deposited thereon. (2000
Code § 8-407)
      13.   Stagnant Water Bodies:
         a.   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in
which mosquitoes and other insects breed or are likely to breed, or which are
so constructed, formed, conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public
safety. (2000 Code § 8-407; amd. Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
         b.   Permitting or allowing the accumulation of stagnant water on
property owned or occupied by any person, or permitting same to remain, or
permitting holes or places on the property where stagnant water may accumulate.
(2000 Code § 8-425)
      14.   Conditions Attracting Pests 2 : Rank weeds or grass, carcasses,
accumulations of manure, refuse, or other things, which are, or are likely to
be, breeding places for flies, mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs; and the
premises on which such exist.
      15.   Dangerous Structures:
         a.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition.
         b.   Every building or other structure that shall become unsafe and
dangerous from fire, decay or other cause, or shall become hazardous from fire,
by reason of age, decay or construction, location or other cause, or shall be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the city or its inhabitants
from any cause.
      16.   Dangerous Premises: Any pit, hole, or other thing which is so
constructed, formed, conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety.
      17.   Fire And Explosive Hazards; Dense Smoke:
         a.   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety.
(2000 Code § 8-407)
         b.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders in such
quantities as to render the occupancy of property uncomfortable to a person of
ordinary sensibilities. (2000 Code § 8-424)
      18.   Dangerous Businesses:
         a.   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare. (2000 Code § 8-407)
         b.   Every trade, business or occupation injurious to the health or
comfort of those who reside in the vicinity and any lot or parcel of land, or
any receptacle containing water or slops suffered to become stagnant, offensive
or unwholesome from any cause. (2000 Code § 8-426)
      19.   Abandoned Vehicles 3 : Any motor vehicle, trailer or boat
considered as an abandoned vehicle. An "abandoned vehicle" is defined as any
motor vehicle, trailer or boat which is dismantled, partially dismantled,
nonoperative, wrecked, junked, unlicensed, black tagged or has flat tires. This
definition shall include vehicles which have missing lights, fenders, windows,
doors, hoods, trunks, wheels, motors, transmissions, frames or rear ends. (Ord.
969, 1-13-2004)
      20.   Animal Houses And Noises: Any stable or other place where animals
are kept that may become obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the city, by
reason of any noise or noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack
of sanitation.
      21.   Obstructions To Intersections: All trees, hedges, billboards or
other obstructions which prevent persons from having a clear view of traffic
approaching an intersection from cross streets in sufficient time to bring a
motor vehicle driven at a reasonable speed to a full stop before the
intersection is reached.
      22.   Tree Limbs Above Sidewalks: All limbs of trees which are less than
eight feet (8') above the surface of any public sidewalk or street.
      23.   Wires Above Ground: All wires which are strung less than fifteen
feet (15') above the surface of the ground.
      24.   Signs And Awnings: All hanging signs, awnings, and other structures
over the streets or sidewalks so situated or constructed as to endanger public
safety.
      25.   Graffiti On Buildings: Any building or structure which has been
defaced with graffiti associated with, or appearing to be associated with,
criminal street gang activity.
   B.   Cumulative Provisions: The above enumeration of certain public
nuisances shall be cumulative and not limit other provisions of law or
ordinances defining public or private nuisances either in more general or more
specific terms. (2000 Code § 8-407)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3 of this code.
2 1. See also chapter 1 of this title.
3 1. See also section 8-2-20 of this chapter.
8-2-7: NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
   Whenever the city manager, or such other officer as may be designated, finds
that a nuisance exists, he shall cause to be served upon the owner, agent, or
occupant of the property on which the nuisance is located, or upon the person
causing or maintaining the nuisance, a written notice to abate or to request a
hearing as provided in section 8-2-11 of this chapter. (2000 Code § 8-408)
8-2-8: CONTENTS OF NOTICE; METHOD OF SERVICE:
   A.   Contents: The notice to abate shall contain:
      1.   An order to abate the nuisance or request a hearing as provided by
section 8-2-11 of this chapter within a stated time which shall be a reasonable
time under the circumstances;
      2.   Location of nuisance if stationary;
      3.   Description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      4.   Statement of act or acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
      5.   Statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, the city will abate the
nuisance and assess the cost against such person; and
      6.   A sample form of the notice is as follows:
   NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE
TO: (Name and address of owner, agent, or occupant of the property on which the
nuisance is located, or the person causing or maintaining the nuisance.)
You are hereby notified to abate the nuisance existing at  (location of
nuisance)  or file written request for a hearing with the undersigned officer
within  (hours or days)  from the service of this notice.
The nuisance consists of  (describe the nuisance) , and shall be abated by
(state action necessary to abate the particular nuisance) .
In the event you fail to abate or cause to be abated the above nuisance as
directed, the chief of police will take such steps as are necessary to abate or
cause to be abated the nuisance and the costs will be assessed against you as
provided by law.
   THE CITY OF SEMINOLE, OKLAHOMA
      By                               
       City Manager
(2000 Code § 8-409)
   B.   Method Of Service: All such notices shall be served by the chief of
police or other officer or some duly authorized person, by delivering to the
person a written copy, if he can be found, or in case he cannot be found, then
by leaving posted on the door or other convenient and conspicuous place on the
premises and by mailing to the last known address of the person to be served.
In any event, when the person cannot be personally served with the notice, the
authority serving the notice shall assume that the person so notified has
requested a hearing and all further proceedings conducted as if a request for
hearing has been filed. (2000 Code § 8-410)
 
8-2-9: ABATEMENT BY CITY; STATEMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   City Abatement; Cost Assessment: If the person so notified neglects or
fails to abate the nuisance as directed, the city manager, or other officer
initiating the notice, may cause the nuisance to be abated, keeping an accurate
account of the expense incurred. The expense account shall be fully itemized,
verified and filed with the city clerk. Such expenses shall be paid by the
city. (2000 Code § 8-411)
   B.   Collection Of Costs: The clerk shall mail a statement of the total cost
to the person failing to abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown
by the statement has not been paid within one month, the clerk shall certify
the costs to the proper county officer along with the other lists of certified
assessments to be assessed against the property of the party to be paid as
other taxes are paid. (2000 Code § 8-412)
 
8-2-10: LIABILITY:
In addition to all other provisions of this chapter, the party who fails or
refuses to abate and remove a nuisance upon orders of the proper city officials
shall be and remain civilly liable for all costs to which the city is put,
which may be removed in a civil action for that purpose. (2000 Code § 8-413)
 
8-2-11: REQUEST FOR HEARING AND APPEAL:
   A.   Request In Writing; Time Limit: Any person ordered to abate a nuisance
may have a hearing with the officer ordering the abatement as to whether a
nuisance exists. A request for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered
to the officer ordering the abatement within the time stated in the notice, or
it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance exists and it must be abated
as ordered. (2000 Code § 7-414)
   B.   Hearing Decision; Right To Appeal: At the conclusion of the hearing,
the hearing officer shall render a written decision as to whether a nuisance
exists. If he finds that a nuisance exists, he must order it abated within an
additional time which must be reasonable under the circumstances and advise the
person of his right to appeal. An appeal from this decision may be had by
filing a written notice with the hearing officer within ten (10) days of the
date of the decision. This appeal will be heard before the mayor and city
council within thirty (30) days. The findings of the mayor and city council
shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered
abated within a time reasonable under the circumstances. (2000 Code § 8-414;
amd. Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
 
8-2-12: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Dangerous Conditions: Some nuisances are of such nature as to
constitute a grave and immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of one or more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized
that circumstances may be such as to justify, and even to require, the mayor or
other appropriate officer or agency of the city government to take immediate
and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend
the danger until more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   B.   City Officials To Recommend Abatement: The chief of the fire
department, the chief of police, the city attorney, the code enforcement
official, or any other officer subordinate to the city manager may submit,
through or with the consent of the city manager to the city council, a
statement as to the existence of a "nuisance" as defined by the ordinances of
the city or law, and a request or recommendation that it be abated. The city
manager or his designee, any council person, or any resident or residents of
the city may submit such a statement and request a recommendation to the city
council.
   C.   Council Determination: The council shall determine whether or not the
alleged nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence
on the subject, the council shall have power to subpoena and examine witnesses,
books, papers and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the nuisance or
have it abated, the council shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed
abatement to the owner of any property concerned and to any other person
alleged or deemed responsible for or to be causing the nuisance, and an
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given. Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be
given in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if the names and
addresses are known; but, if the names or addresses are not known, and the
peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city.
   D.   Abatement By Owner Or City; Costs A Debt: If the council finds that a
nuisance does in fact exist, it shall direct the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance to abate it within a specified time if
the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If
such peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by
the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons responsible for or
causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified time, the council
shall direct the city manager to abate the nuisance or to have it abated, if
summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 Oklahoma Statutes section
16. The city clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such summary abatement
to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance, as may
be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses are known. Until
paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the city collectible as other debts
of the city may be collected. (2000 Code § 8-415; amd. Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008,
eff. 2-7-2008)
 
8-2-13: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the city
may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 17. (2000 Code § 8-416)
 
8-2-14: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL; CITATION ISSUANCE:
   A.   Maintenance Of Nuisance Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person,
including, but not limited to, any owner, lessee, or other person to create or
maintain a nuisance within the city or to permit a nuisance to remain on
premises under his control within the city.
   B.   Citation Books Provided: The city manager is hereby authorized and
directed to supply all code enforcement officials with citation books in sets,
each set consisting of an original and at least two (2) duplicate copies, for
the purpose of giving notice to persons violating any provision of this
chapter.
   C.   Notice To Violator: Notice may be given by delivering the citation to
the violator or by affixing it to the property involved in the violation in a
conspicuous location.
   D.   Contents Of Citation: Each citation shall direct the violator to appear
and present such citation at a designated place on or before a date and hour
specified thereon. Each citation shall indicate the location of the violation.
   E.   Violator Compelled To Appear: It shall be unlawful and an offense for
any person to violate his written promise to appear, given to the issuing
official upon the issuance of a code violation citation regardless of the
disposition of the charge for which citation was originally issued.
   F.   Failure To Appear; Warrant Issuance From Court: If a violator under
this chapter does not appear in response to a code violation citation affixed
to the subject property within a period of five (5) days, the clerk of the
municipal court may send to the owner of said property to which the citation
was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and warning him that in the
event such letter is disregarded for a period of five (5) days, a warrant of
arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2) or more code violation
citations have been affixed on the same property and the citations have been
disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the letter
provided in this section.
   G.   Copy Of Citation Deposited With Court Clerk: The issuing official, upon
issuing a code violation citation to an alleged violator of any provision this
title, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the citation with the
municipal court clerk. Upon the filing of the original citation in the
municipal court, the citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or
by other official action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail
or by payment of a fine. (2000 Code § 8-417; amd. Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-
7-2008)
8-2-15: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT 1 :
   A.   Order To Abate: Pursuant to authority granted by Title 63 O.S. Section
1-1011, the code enforcement official has authority to order the owner or
occupant of any private premises in the city to remove from such premises, at
his own expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to
the breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within
twenty four (24) hours, or within such other time as may be reasonable, and a
failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   B.    Such order shall be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof, by the code
enforcement official or by a police officer, or a copy thereof may be left at
the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant, or agent, if known and
within the state. If the premises is unoccupied and the residence of the owner,
occupant, or agent is unknown, or is without the state, the order may be served
by posting a copy thereof on the premises, or by publication in at least one
issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the city.
   C.   If the city causes the abatement of the health nuisance, any subsequent
accumulations of filth, cause of sickness, condition conductive to the breeding
of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or
any other condition adversely affecting the public health, within a six (6)-
month period may be declared to be a continuing nuisance and may be summarily
abated without further prior notice to the property owner. At the time of each
such summary abatement, the city shall notify the property owner of the
abatement and the costs thereof.
   D.   The code enforcement official or other authorized authority may cause
abandoned, unsecured and/or dilapidated buildings, houses or structures within
the municipal limits to be boarded and secured in an effort to abate a public
nuisance.
   E.   For the purposes of this section:
      1.   BOARDED AND SECURED shall mean any action to close, cover or lock of
any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the structure.
      2.   UNSECURED shall mean any structure which is not occupied by a legal
or equitable owner thereof, or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner, and
into which there are one (1) or more unsecured openings such as broken windows,
unlocked windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes
in the roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar
hatchways or other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an
unauthorized entry into the structure.
      3.   Dilapidated building and houses shall encompass a structure which is
determined by the municipal governing body or administrative officer of the
municipal governing body to be an unsecured building, as defined by section 22-
112.1 of this title, more than three (3) times within any twelve (12)-month
period, a structure which has been boarded and secured, as defined by section
22-112.1 of this title, for more than eighteen (18) consecutive months, or a
structure declared by the municipal governing body or its authorized official
to constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, not
properly protected or secured and which may attract children and endanger them
in the course of play shall be considered a health and safety nuisance.
   F.   Failure To Comply; Abatement By City; Costs: If the order is not
complied with, the code enforcement official may cause the order to be executed
and complied with, and the cost thereof shall be certified to the city clerk,
and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be added to the water
bill or other city utility bill of the owner or occupant if he is a user of
water from the city water system or such other utility service. The cost shall
be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it is added, and shall
become due and payable, and be subject to the same regulations relating to
delinquency in payment, as the utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant
is not a user of any city utility service, such cost, after certification to
the city clerk, may be collected in any manner in which any other debt due the
city may be collected. (2000 Code § 8-418; amd. Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-
2008; Ord. 1242, 3-20-2020, eff. 3-20-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. State law reference: 63 O.S. Section 1-1011
8-2-16: PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative to any other
penalties or procedures authorized. (2000 Code § 8-420)
8-2-17: TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED; NUISANCE 1 :
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the respective meanings ascribed to them herein:
   HUMAN EXCREMENT: The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
   SANITARY PIT PRIVY: A privy which is built, rebuilt, or constructed so as to
conform with the specifications approved by the state health department.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET: The flush type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times. (2000 Code § 8-419)
   B.   Sanitary Facilities Required: Every owner of a residence or other
building in which humans reside, are employed, or congregate within the city
shall install, equip, and maintain adequate sanitary facilities for the
disposal of human excrement by use of a sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit
privy. The closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the sanitary water
closet type when located within two hundred fifty feet (250') of a sanitary
sewer and accessible thereto, and of the sanitary water closet type
(notwithstanding a greater distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water closet
type emptying into a septic tank system or the pit privy type. A septic tank
system or a pit privy may be used in such cases only if it meets the standards
of, and is approved by, the state health department.
   C.   Water Closets And Privies: All human excrement disposed of within the
city shall be disposed of by depositing it in closets and privies of the type
provided for in this section. It is unlawful for any owner of property within
the city to permit the disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner,
or for any person to dispose of human excrement within the city in any other
manner.
   D.   Sanitary Condition Of Privies: All privies shall be kept clean and
sanitary at all times, and the covers of the seats of privies shall be kept
closed at all times when the privies are not being used. No wash water, kitchen
slop, or anything other than human excrement and toilet paper shall be emptied
into a privy. No excrement from any person suffering from typhoid fever,
dysentery, or other serious bowel disease shall be deposited in any sanitary
pit privy or sanitary water closet until it is disinfected in such a manner as
may be prescribed by the code enforcement official. (2000 Code § 8-419; amd.
Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
   E.   Noncompliance Declared Public Nuisance: All facilities for the disposal
of human excrement in a manner different from that required by this section,
and all privies and closets so constructed, situated, or maintained as to
endanger the public health, are hereby declared to be public nuisances, and may
be dealt with and abated as such. Any person maintaining any such nuisance is
guilty of an offense, and each day upon which any such nuisance continues is a
separate offense. (2000 Code § 8-419)
 
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 17-3A-3 of this code.
8-2-18: ACCUMULATION OF FILTH UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person who owns or occupies any house, building,
establishment, lot or yard in the city, to permit or allow any carrion, filth
or other impure or unwholesome matter to accumulate or remain thereon. (2000
Code § 8-421)
 
8-2-19: SLAUGHTERHOUSE RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a slaughterhouse within less
than one-half (1/2) mile of any tract of land platted into lots and blocks as
an addition to the city except in conformity with the zoning ordinances of the
city, or to maintain such a slaughterhouse within one-half (1/2) mile of any
tract of land platted into acre tracts for the purpose of being sold for
residence, and in which tracts of land have actually been sold for residence
purposes outside of the city. (2000 Code § 8-422; amd. Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008,
eff. 2-7-2008)
 
8-2-20: JUNKED VEHICLES; TIME LIMIT ON PROPERTY:
   A.   Restrictions On Keeping: No person in charge or control of any property
within the city, whether as owner, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow
any "abandoned vehicle", as defined in subsection 8-2-6A19 of this chapter, to
remain on such property longer than seven (7) days. Persons aggressively making
repairs to an inoperative vehicle may: 1) keep the inoperative vehicle in a
fully enclosed garage; 2) store in a rear yard which has a six foot (6')
privacy fence completely around the rear yard; or 3) store in the rear yard
under a factory made car cover. (Cover must be maintained in good repair.)
   B.   Exception: This section shall not apply to premises of a business
enterprise operating in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the
operation of such business enterprise, provided vehicles remain no longer than
thirty (30) days. (Ord. 969, 1-13-2004)
 
8-2-21: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code §
8-428)
 
8-2-22: PENALTY FOR DANGEROUS STRUCTURES:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall maintain a dangerous
structure as defined by subsection 8-2-6A15 of this chapter shall be punished
by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or up to thirty (30) days' imprisonment, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, the court may impose a term of
community service not to exceed forty (40) hours for each offense.
   B.   Every person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of this
section shall be punished by a fine of not less than four hundred dollars
($400.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or up to thirty
(30) days in jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, the
court may impose a term of community service not to exceed eighty (80) hours
for each offense.
   C.   Each day said person, firm or corporation is in violation shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1097, 5-12-2009)
 
8-2-23: PENALTY FOR JUNKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Notwithstanding penalties set forth in section 8-2-21 of this chapter, any
junked or "abandoned vehicle", as defined in this chapter, may be impounded at
the direction of a duly authorized officer of the city after seven (7) days.
All costs associated shall be assessed against the vehicle owner or lessee, or
the owner of property from which the vehicle was removed. (Ord. 1115, 5-11-
2010)
CHAPTER 3
INSECT SPRAYING BY CITY
SECTION:
8-3-1: Insect Spraying Authorized
8-3-2: Fee For Spraying
8-3-1: INSECT SPRAYING AUTHORIZED:
   To preserve the health of the citizens of the city, it is necessary that the
streets, alleys, parkways and public places be sprayed with chemicals to kill
flies, mosquitoes and other insects in preserving public health. The water
department of the city is authorized to commence the spraying of the streets,
alleys and parkways with a chemical of sufficient strength to kill flies,
mosquitoes and other insects for the preservation of the public health. (2000
Code § 8-601)
8-3-2: FEE FOR SPRAYING:
   There shall be a minimum charge as set by the city council by ordinance or
resolution for each residence or family and for each business of the city for a
period of three (3) months each year to pay for the insect spraying. The fee
shall be included on the water bills to customers as shown by the records in
the office of the water clerk of the city as being connected to a water meter
in the city or a consumer of water in the city. The charge shall be collected
by the water department of the city by submitting a statement each month, for
three (3) months out of the year, the months to be decided upon by the city
council. Spraying fees for multi-unit family dwellings on a master meter shall
be computed in the manner determined by the council. (2000 Code § 8-602)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definition
8-4-2: Release Prohibited
8-4-3: Cleanup Authorized
8-4-4: Recovery Of Costs
8-4-5: Exceptions
8-4-6: Penalty For Repeated Violations
8-4-1: DEFINITION:
"Hazardous material or substance" shall have the same specific definition as
found in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-1601 and shall mean any substance that,
because of its quantity, concentration or physical or chemical characteristics,
poses a significant present or potential hazard, according to federal, state
and/or local standards and regulations, to human health and safety or to the
environment if released into the workplace or the environment. (2000 Code § 8-
701)
8-4-2: RELEASE PROHIBITED:
   Hazardous materials in any quantity shall not be discharged into a sewer,
storm drain, ditch, drainage canal, creek, stream, river, lake or tidal
waterway or on the ground, sidewalk, street, highway, interstate, into the
atmosphere or the environment. (2000 Code § 8-702)
8-4-3: CLEANUP AUTHORIZED:
   The fire chief is authorized to clean up or abate the effects of any
hazardous substance or waste unlawfully, accidentally, or negligently released,
discharged or deposited upon or into any property or facilities within the
city. (2000 Code § 8-703)
8-4-4: RECOVERY OF COSTS:
   A.   Liability For Cleanup Costs: The following described persons shall be
jointly and severally liable to the city for the payment of all costs incurred
by the city as a result of such cleanup or abatement activity:
      1.   The person whose accidental, negligent or wilful act or omission
proximately caused such release discharge or deposit;
      2.   The person who owned or had custody or control of the hazardous
substance or waste at the time of such release, discharge or deposit without
regard to fault or proximate cause; and
      3.   The person who owned or had custody or control of the container
which held such hazardous waste or substance at the time or immediately prior
to such release, discharge or deposit without regard to fault or proximate
cause.
   B.   Supervision By Fire Chief: In the event that any person undertakes,
either voluntarily or upon order of the fire chief or other city official, to
clean up or abate the effects of any hazardous substance or waste negligently,
unlawfully or accidentally released, discharged or deposited upon or into any
property or facilities within the city, the fire chief may take such action as
is necessary to supervise or verify the adequacy of the cleanup abatement. The
persons described in subsection A of this section shall be liable to the city
for all costs incurred as a result of such supervision or verification.
   C.   Costs Assessed: For purposes of this section, costs incurred by the
city shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following: actual
labor costs of city personnel, including benefits and administrative overhead;
cost of equipment operation; cost of any contract labor and materials.
   D.   Exception To Costs: The authority to recover costs under this section
shall not include actual fire suppression services which are normally or
usually provided by the fire department.
   E.   Additional Remedies: The remedies provided by this section shall be in
addition to any other remedies provided by law. (2000 Code § 8-704)
8-4-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   The following hazardous substance releases are not considered violations of
the terms of this chapter:
   A.   The release or emission of hazardous materials shall be permitted when
in compliance with federal, state, and local governmental agencies, regulations
or permits.
   B.   The release of pesticides is permitted when utilized according to
registered label directions unless otherwise regulated in this code.
   C.   The release of fertilizer and soil improvement materials shall be
permitted when performed according to manufacturer's specifications. (2000 Code
§ 8-705)
8-4-6: PENALTY FOR REPEATED VIOLATIONS:
   Any person who causes the unauthorized release of a hazardous substance or
hazardous material shall receive a cease and desist notice for the initial
offense; if any subsequent offense occurs, in addition to the costs of cleanup,
such person shall be punished according to section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000
Code § 8-706; amd. Ord. 1067, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
CHAPTER 5
COVID-19 SAFETY CODE
SECTION:
8-5-1: City of Seminole COVID-19 Safety Code
8-5-2: Statement Of Findings By The City Council Of The City Of Seminole
8-5-3: Definitions
8-5-4: Face Coverings Required
8-5-5: Guidelines For Face Coverings
8-5-6: Exceptions
8-5-7: Effective And Expiration Dates Of Times
8-5-8: Enforcement
8-5-9: Violations And Penalties
8-5-10: Defense To Violations
8-5-1: CITY OF SEMINOLE COVID-19 SAFETY CODE:
This article is entitled and shall be known to as the CITY OF SEMINOLE COVID-19
SAFETY CODE. (Ord. 1252, 12-14-2020)
8-5-2: STATEMENT OF FINDINGS BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SEMINOLE:
   A.   The United States is experiencing and outbreak of Novel Coronavirus-
2019 also known as COVID-19; and
   B.   On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization characterized the
COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic; and
   C.   On March 13, 2020 the President of the United States declared a
National Emergency because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the declaration is
still in effect today; and
   D.   On March 15, 2020, the Governor of Oklahoma declared a State of
Emergency because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the declaration is still in
effect today; and
   E.   The Center for Disease Control ("CDC") has emphasized the COVID-19 risk
to individuals is dependent on exposure and transmission is through respiratory
droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes; and
   F.   There have been over 2,072 COVID-19 related deaths statewide with over
fifteen (15) deaths in Seminole and the immediately surrounding area; and
   G.   The City Council of the City of Seminole (City) finds that the Center
for Disease Control (CDC) has identified a virus, COVID-19, which is causing a
pandemic throughout the world and the United States remains present, extremely
contagious, and potentially deadly within the city; and
   H.   After reaching a low point for positive tests and hospitalizations, in
June, Oklahoma experienced a significant increase in the number of COVID-19
positive tests and hospitalizations; and
   I.   After a period where the rise in new cases subsided, the increase in
new cases and positive testing percentages has resumed this past week and
remains at an elevated level related to the previous phases of the pandemic;
and
   J.   Since mid-June, hospitalizations have consistently remained at an
elevated level that causes concern to public health officials; and
   K.   The Oklahoma State Department of Health ("OSDH") has successfully
identified safety measures what will substantially improve the City's response
to this pandemic, preserving the health of the community; and
   L.   Based upon information provided by local healthcare providers and
public health experts, the current surge occurred, in part, due to public
gatherings associated with the Labor Day holiday; and
   M.   One strong recommendation by the CDC and PCHD is the adoption of the
safety measure for the mandatory wearing of face coverings (masks) over the
nose and mouth to help prevent air-born virus particles from causing new
infections and, depending on the design of the mask, can also help prevent the
persons wearing the face covering to not become infected with COVID-19; and
   N.   With the transmission of COVID-19 and COVID-related hospitalizations
continuing at an elevated level, provisions for the safety of the life, health,
and property of Seminole residents are still necessary; and
   O.   The City Council of the City declares that the continuing occurrence
and threat of widespread or severe damage, injury, or loss of life or property
from COVID-19, including severe economic damage to the City and the State of
Oklahoma, which can result from COVID-19 justifies emergency action by the City
to help avert such danger or damage and to protect the public health; and
   P.   The City Council further declares an emergency need for an ordinance
containing the COVID-19 safety measure for the mandatory wearing of face
coverings over the nose and mouth whenever persons are in any place or setting
open to the general public; and
   Q.   The City Council of the City further notes that the recent surge in
COVID-19 cases in several U.S. states is raising concern that the economic
recovery that likely began in May could falter if authorities re-impose
lockdowns or consumers reduce spending out of fear that getting out and about
could mean they get the sometimes fatal disease; and
   R.   The City Council also finds that it is appropriate and in the interest
of the public health, safety, and welfare and would further protect property
and civil order, of the Civil Council to adopt this COVID-19 Safety Code with a
regulation mandating the wearing of masks over the nose and mouth whenever
persons are entering and while inside any indoor place open to the public; and
   S.   The City Council of the City states that this COVID-19 Safety Code
measure is being enacted to help limit the health impacts and slow the spread
of COVID-19 by mandating the wearing of face coverings over the nose and mouth
whenever persons are entering and while inside any indoor place open to the
public; and
   T.   Accordingly, the City council also finds that it is appropriate and in
the interest of the public health, safety, and welfare and would further
protect property and civil order, for the City council to limit the duration of
this ordinance to and until April 14, 2021 with the mask requirement expiring
at 12:00 a.m on April 14, 2021; provided for the ages this requirement applies
to, the City Council has determined that ages five (5) and up is appropriate,
but the public should keep in mind that the CDC recommends that persons three
(3) and up should wear masks. (Ord. 1252, 12-14-2020)
8-5-3: DEFINITION:
The term "face covering" as used in this article shall mean a uniform piece of
material that securely covers a person's nose and mouth and remains affixed in
place without the use of one's hands and/or a face shield. (Ord. 1252, 12-14-
2020)
8-5-4: FACE COVERINGS REQUIRED:
All persons shall wear face coverings when entering and while inside any indoor
place open to the public. (Ord. 1252, 12-14-2020)
8-5-5: GUIDELINES FOR FACE COVERINGS:
The public is encouraged to wear face coverings that;
   A.   Fit snugly but comfortably against the side of the face;
   B.   Are secured;
   C.   Allow for breathing without restrictions; and
   D.   Face coverings may be made of disposable or non-disposable materials.
(Ord. 1252, 12-14-2020)
8-5-6: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing herein shall require the wearing of face coverings by:
   A.   Persons under five (5) years of age unless required by a school or day
care to wear a face covering;
   B.   Persons in the workplace who do not have any face-to-face interactions
with the public, such as a professional office, garage, etc.;
   C.   Restaurant patrons while eating or drinking;
   D.   Persons in a setting where it is not practical or feasible to wear a
face covering, such as when receiving dental services, medical treatments, or
while swimming or at a splash park;
   E.   Persons engaged in competitive sporting activities, whether
professional or amateur or merely for recreational purposes;
   F.   Persons engaged in performing cardio exercise, but they should make a
reasonable effort to practice social distancing from persons not from their
household;
   G.   Persons attending any indoor religious service or ceremony as long as
all persons who do not live in the same household are social distancing from
one another, meaning not less than 6 feet apart; provided, nothing herein shall
be construed to restrict the exercise of any church service, activity or
ritual;
   H.   Persons inside any public or private school building or other facility
unless required by the school to wear a face covering; and
   I.   Persons with a development disability, including persons who are deaf
and hard of hearing.
   J.   Persons with a medical condition where the wearing of a face covering
would impede their health or exacerbate said condition. (Ord. 1252, 12-14-2020)
8-5-7: EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES OF TIMES:
This chapter will become effective and enforceable upon adoption by City
Council and will expire and become unenforceable at twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M.
on April 14, 2021. (Ord. 1252, 12-14-2020)
8-5-8: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter may be enforced by any legally authorized code-enforcement
inspectors or sworn police officers, to include, but not limited to: authorized
OSDH inspectors, Seminole Code Enforcement Officers, Seminole Fire Department
and sworn peace officers of the Seminole Police Department. (Ord. 1252, 12-14-
2020)
8-5-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Inspectors and officers, at the initial contact, shall give an option
of wearing a face covering or leaving the indoor place to a person who is not
excepted from the face covering requirement. No citation shall be issued to a
person who complies with one of the options. Failure to wear the face covering
or failure to leave the indoor place after being warned shall constitute a
violation of this article.
   B.   A first and second violation of this article shall constitute a
punishable offense. Upon conviction, the penalty shall not exceed, a nine
dollars ($9.00) fine. No court costs, fees, or assessments shall be imposed.
   C.   A third or subsequent violation shall constitute a punishable offense,
requiring a mandatory appearance in the Municipal Court and, upon conviction,
shall be punishable with a penalty not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00)
inclusive of costs and state-mandated fees and assessments.
   D.   Each violation of this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1252, 12-14-2020)
8-5-10: DEFENSE TO VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a defense to any violation of Sections 15-6 through 15-19 of this
Title if an individual produces a document demonstrating that his/her/their
physician has verified that wearing a face covering could cause impairment or
would constitute a hazard to the individual. (Ord. 1252, 12-14-2020)
TITLE 9
LICENSING AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Application For License Or Permit
9-1-2: Persons Subject To License Or Permit
9-1-3: Forms
9-1-4: Signatures Required
9-1-5: License Nontransferable
9-1-6: Duplicate Issuance
9-1-7: Display Required
9-1-8: Revocation Of License Or Permit
9-1-9: Investigations
9-1-10: Nuisances Prohibited
9-1-11: Penalty
9-1-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be
made to the community services office, unless otherwise specifically provided
by law. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee
to be paid. Each application shall contain such additional information as may
be required by the issuing official. (2000 Code § 9-101; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-
2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
9-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   Whenever in this code a license or permit is required for the maintenance,
operation or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or
engaging in any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be
subject to the requirement if by himself, or through an agent, employee or
partner, he holds himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation
or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts
to perform any part of the business or occupation in the city. (2000 Code § 9-
102)
9-1-3: FORMS:
   Forms for all licenses and permits, and application therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the community services office. (2000 Code § 9-103;
amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
9-1-4: SIGNATURES REQUIRED:
   Each license or permit issued, in the absence of any provision to the
contrary, shall bear the signatures of the city manager or his designated
representative. (2000 Code § 9-104; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
9-1-5: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
   No license shall be sold or otherwise transferred and all transfers or sales
of a license shall cause a forfeiture of the same, and the amounts that may
have been paid to the city for the license shall be forfeited to the city.
(2000 Code § 9-105)
9-1-6: DUPLICATE ISSUANCE:
   Whenever any original occupation license has been lost or destroyed, it
shall be the duty of the city, on application in writing, to issue a duplicate
upon payment of the fee as set by the council by motion or resolution. (2000
Code § 9-106)
9-1-7: DISPLAY REQUIRED:
   It is the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city to
keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the premises used
for such business. (2000 Code § 9-107)
9-1-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   Any license or permit issued for a limited time may be revoked by the city
manager or his designated representative at any time for any violation by the
licensee or permittee of the code provisions relating to the license or permit,
the subject matter of the license or permit, or to the premises occupied. In
addition, the city manager or his designated representative may revoke any
license or permit if such revocation is in the interest of the public good. The
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. (2000 Code § 9-108; amd.
Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
9-1-9: INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Application; Background Check: A current Oklahoma state bureau of
investigation background check must be attached to the application.
      1.   Report From Chief Of Police: The chief of police or other proper
officer shall read all pertinent application paperwork within forty eight (48)
hours of the time of such receipt. A report thereon, favorable or otherwise,
shall be made within five (5) working days after receiving the application or
copy thereof.
      2.   Denial: If, as a result of such investigations, the applicant is
found to be unsatisfactory, the chief of police shall so endorse on the
application and return it to the city clerk's office, and no license shall be
issued.
      3.   Approval: If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant is
found to be satisfactory, the chief of police shall so endorse on the
application and return it to the community development office, and the license
shall then be issued contingent upon applicant meeting all other requirements.
      4.   Scope: This subsection shall pertain to all licenses and permits
required in this title, including, but not limited to, peddlers, solicitors,
itinerant merchants, and ice cream truck vendors.
      5.   Exceptions: No OSBI background check is needed for residential sales
permits, amusement parks and circuses, chemical spraying, tree trimming or
fireworks stands.
      6.   Discretion Of Community Development Director: Any other permits
outside of the above mentioned are at the discretion of the community
development director. (Ord. 1158, 9-10-2013)
   B.   Building Inspector; Construction: For the protection of health and
safety, the building inspector shall make or cause to be made any inspection
relative to the construction of buildings or other structures.
   C.   Other Investigations: All other investigations, except where otherwise
provided, shall be made by the chief of police or other officer designated by
the city manager. (Ord. 1035, 4-11-2006; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-
2008)
9-1-10: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact. (2000 Code § 9-110)
9-1-11: PENALTY:
   Any person found violating any provision of this title, upon conviction,
shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code, in addition to
other actions, including revocation or suspension of the license or permit.
(2000 Code § 9-111)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Authority; Purpose
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: License Required Generally
9-2-4: Bond Required
9-2-5: Application For License
9-2-6: Payment Of Fees; Prerequisites To Issuance
9-2-7: Denial Of License, Basis; Issuance
9-2-8: Exemptions
9-2-9: Penalty
9-2-1: AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The power to regulate peddling, soliciting and
transient dealing is granted to the city by statute 1 .
   B.   Purpose: Although the occupations or activities of peddling, soliciting
and transient dealing are considered to be lawful, it is recognized that
unscrupulous persons have employed annoying methods of solicitation and that
too often citizens of this community have been victimized and have suffered
property damage and financial loss because of fraudulent transactions.
Therefore, this provision is enacted to regulate such activities and to prevent
abuses connected with this category of commercial dealing and to assure a means
of obtaining service of process in the event of loss, breach of warranty or
breach of contract. (2000 Code § 9-200)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-106.
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   ITINERANT MERCHANT OR VENDOR: A person who is located in the city for a
period of time and during this interval makes sales and delivery of goods, and
has a verifiable and established place of business within or outside the state.
   PEDDLER: Any person who travels about the city selling small goods and wares
which he carries with him, and has no fixed place of business but travels from
place to place, and is prepared to deliver his wares and goods at the same time
he solicits business. The term shall also include hawkers and hucksters.
   SOLICITOR OR CANVASSER: A person who solicits or canvasses by going from
place to place in an effort to take orders for goods for future delivery. He
may or may not use samples in soliciting an order. (2000 Code § 9-201)
9-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED GENERALLY:
   No person shall engage in the business of peddling goods, wares or
merchandise, or services, or canvassing for the sale of the same without first
obtaining a license therefor. (2000 Code § 9-202; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008,
eff. 4-10-2008)
9-2-4: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   City Bond, Amount: Every person canvassing or soliciting for the sale
of goods in connection with the installation of same or the provision of a
service shall be required to obtain a bond with the city with approved sureties
equal to the value of the contract for goods and services.
   B.   Exception, State License And Bond: This provision shall not be
applicable to contractors who are required by statute to be licensed and bonded
as a condition of practicing their occupation or vocation.
   C.   Disclosures To Prospective Customers: All peddlers, solicitors or
itinerant merchants must disclose to their prospective customers whether they
are bonded and whether the goods or services being provided are covered by
warranties or guarantees.
   D.   Coverage Of License And Bond: Licenses issued and bonds filed hereunder
shall cover the applicant and all of his agents, servants, employees and
representatives. (2000 Code § 9-203)
9-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application To City; Forms: A license required by this chapter may be
obtained by making proper application to the city on forms furnished by the
city. (2000 Code § 9-204)
   B.   Contents Of Application: Such application shall contain the following
information for each applicant and each employee operating within the corporate
limits of the city: (2000 Code § 9-204; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-
2008)
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant; if a post
office box is given, also specify the permanent street address of the
applicant.
      2.   Provide social security number, valid driver's license number and
photo identification of applicant.
      3.   Current OTC resale or use tax number or similar business tax
identification number from another state.
      4.   Name, address and telephone number of all suppliers of goods to be
sold.
      5.   Any history of consumer complaints regarding the product to be sold,
warranties attaching thereto, or business practices; specify the city and state
where such complaint was registered.
      6.   Specify any licenses held and bonds in force.
      7.   List all names used by applicant or the company applicant represents
within the last two (2) years, list the last three (3) cities wherein the
applicant conducted business, and provide the address of the business location
in those cities. (2000 Code § 9-204)
9-2-6: PAYMENT OF FEES; PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE:
   The applicant for a license required by this chapter shall pay a fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00). An investigation as to the financial responsibility and
identity of the person represented by the applicant and the financial ability
and reliability of such person to perform the work or deliver the article for
which orders are taken shall be conducted pursuant to section 9-1-9 of this
title. (Ord. 1158, 9-10-2013)
9-2-7: DENIAL OF LICENSE, BASIS; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Basis For Denial: A license will be denied:
      1.   If information in the application is false or unverifiable; or
      2.   If verification cannot be obtained regarding current status of OTC
resale or use tax licenses or similar licenses from other states; or
      3.   If unresolved consumer complaints are found to exist involving any
matter related to the business activities of the applicant; or
      4.   If no supplier contract for delivery of goods can be verified; or
(2000 Code § 9-206)
      5.   If a person has a history of criminal conduct which may pose a
threat to the protection of the public good; or
      6.   If a person's character and/or business reputation are determined to
be unsound and contrary to the public good. (2000 Code § 9-206; amd. Ord. 1073,
3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
9-2-8: EXEMPTIONS:
   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Peddling and hawking of farm products sold by farmers and consisting of
produce raised and grown exclusively by such farmers.
   B.   Fundraising activities sanctioned by Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, local
school organizations, civic clubs and church groups or eleemosynary
organization. (2000 Code § 9-207)
   C.   Disabled ex-service persons who meet criteria set forth in 72 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1 et seq. (Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
9-2-9: PENALTY:
   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 9-211)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS, CIRCUSES AND CARNIVALS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Permit Required For Traveling Shows, Halls, Rinks
9-3-2: Carnival Permit Required
9-3-3: Circus Permit Required
9-3-4: Circuses And Carnivals; Definitions; Exceptions
9-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TRAVELING SHOWS, HALLS, RINKS:
   The following traveling or itinerant shows and amusements will be permitted
to operate upon application being made for a permit and registration with the
police department, and compliance with all applicable provisions of this title:
   A.   Circus or menagerie;
   B.   Circus parades;
   C.   Shooting galleries, doll racks;
   D.   Ten pins, nine pins or bowling alleys;
   E.   Billiard and amusement halls;
   F.   Street fairs and carnivals;
   G.   Each specialty attraction or stand;
   H.   Tent shows, vaudeville, plays, performances, minstrels and like
attractions under tents or temporary shelter; and
   I.   Skating rinks. (2000 Code § 9-301)
9-3-2: CARNIVAL PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Requirements And Restrictions: No carnival may set up for
operation without first applying to the city for a permit for same. The fee for
this permit shall be as set by the council for the first day of operation
within the city limits and for each day thereafter. The fees shall be collected
by the city and immediately delivered to the city treasurer to be deposited in
the general fund. This permit shall be nontransferable except by permission of
the city manager.
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of this section is a misdemeanor and will be
punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 9-302; amd.
Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
9-3-3: CIRCUS PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Requirements And Restrictions: No circus may set up for
operation without first applying to the city for a permit for same. The fee for
this permit is one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for the operation within
the city limits. The fee shall be collected by the city and immediately
delivered to the city treasurer to be deposited in the general fund. This
permit shall be nontransferable except by permission of the city manager.
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of this section is a misdemeanor and will be
punishable as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 9-303; amd.
Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
9-3-4: CIRCUSES AND CARNIVALS; DEFINITIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Definition: A "circus" within the scope of section 9-3-3 of this
chapter, and a "carnival" within the scope of section 9-3-2 of this chapter,
shall include and apply to any and all circuses and carnivals regardless of the
number of animals involved or rides involved, where a charge is made to enter
the circus or where a charge is made for a ride, or without regard to a charge,
where a circus or carnival is being used as a business promotion by an
individual, firm or corporation.
   B.   Exceptions: The only exceptions to sections 9-3-2 and
9-3-3 of this chapter requiring permits are circuses or carnivals sponsored by
any board or association created by state law or city charter. (2000 Code § 9-
304)
CHAPTER 4
CHEMICAL SPRAYING
SECTION:
9-4-1: License Required; Fee
9-4-2: Bond
9-4-3: Insurance
9-4-4: Spraying Method
9-4-5: Violation; Penalty
9-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   State And City Licenses Required: No person, firm or corporation shall
engage in the business of spraying trees, plants, land or buildings with poison
chemicals or mixtures thereof, such as insecticides, herbicides, or fungicides
within the city, unless and until such person, firm or corporation has applied
for and obtained from the state board of agriculture a license to engage in
such business and has obtained from the city a city license to conduct the
business within the city.
   B.   Annual City Fee: No license will be issued by the city until the
applicant pays to the city a license fee as set by the council by motion or
resolution. Such license fee shall expire on December 31 of each year following
the date of issuance. The full annual fee shall be paid in advance and no
license shall be issued for less than a full annual fee. (2000 Code § 9-501)
9-4-2: BOND:
   Before the issuance of any license for any person, firm or corporation
engaging in the business of spraying as provided herein, he shall file a surety
bond with the city in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) payable to
the city and conditioned that the principal will at all times do all spraying
strictly in accordance to the provisions of this chapter, that all work will be
done in a good and workmanlike manner, that the city shall be fully indemnified
and held whole and harmless from any and all cost, expense or damage to real
property, or personal injury done to any person or property in the prosecution
of his work as such sprayer that may arise out of or be occasioned in the
performance of the work and that he will cause all property damaged by him to
be repaired and put in the same condition as it was before the work was done.
No license shall be issued to any sprayer until such bond has been filed and
approved by the mayor and city council. (2000 Code § 9-502)
9-4-3: INSURANCE:
   A.   Insurance Requirements: Before any license shall be issued for a
sprayer, as defined in this chapter, he shall file with the city, to be
approved by the mayor and city council, an insurance policy for an indemnity
fund as hereafter provided; and an insurance policy issued by any insurance
company licensed to do business in the state, providing public liability
insurance for each and every operation or job performed by the sprayer in the
sum of:
      1.   Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for the injury or death of any
person;
      2.   One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for the injury or death
of any number of persons in any one accident growing out of the work of the
sprayer; and
      3.   Coverage of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for the
property damage in any one accident.
   B.   Policy Conditions; Cancellation: The policy shall further provide that
it cannot be cancelled until at least ten (10) days' written notice of such
cancellation has been given to the city, and the policy shall carry an
endorsement of actual notice to the city for any change therein, the policy to
be approved by the city manager. The policy shall be approved as to form by the
city attorney. The policy shall be made for the use, benefit and protection of
the city, and for the use, benefit and protection of any person who may suffer
injury either to his person or property by reason of any accident or omission
or negligence of any sprayer. Such policy must be approved by the city manager,
and if approved, to remain in full force and effect during the life of such
license issued. If after the approval of such policy and after the issuance of
the license, such policy is allowed to lapse or is not renewed by the payment
of premiums, the city manager may cancel any license issued under the provision
of this chapter, and after notice to the licensee and after an opportunity to
be heard. The cancellation of any policy shall in no way affect or terminate
any liability arising prior to the effective date of cancellation. (2000 Code §
9-503; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
9-4-4: SPRAYING METHOD:
   The following general provisions should be observed by all spray operators:
   A.   The operator should be familiar with insecticides, fumicides and any
other spray material used by him. (2000 Code § 9-504)
   B.   All spray equipment previously used to spray hormone type weed killers
must be plainly marked with a paint brand as such, and will not be used to
spray insecticides or fungicides. (2000 Code § 9-504; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-
2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   C.   All sprayers other than hand sprayers must have power driven agitators.
   D.   No spraying will be done at a temperature of less than forty degrees
Fahrenheit (40°F).
   E.   Spray equipment must be kept clean and in good working order. Such
equipment is subject to inspection at random and samples of spray material
taken for analysis by the qualified representative of the city.
   F.   No spraying will be done when there is sufficient wind to make spray
ineffectual or create a hazard in its drift.
   G.   Spraying technique should be adapted to the power and capacity by
spraying machine used. Work shall be done within the safe limits of capacity
and power without jeopardizing a spray person working off of a ladder or
climbing around in a tree saturated with spray solution. A sprayer that has
insufficient power to properly spray the top of the tree from the ground shall
not be used for such operation.
   H.   All rules and regulations made by the state board of agriculture
regulating and governing the use and application of all insecticides,
herbicides and fungicides are made a part of this chapter and shall be strictly
complied with. (2000 Code § 9-504)
9-4-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of this chapter
by doing that which is prohibited, or by failing or refusing to do that which
is required is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 9-505)
CHAPTER 5
TREE TRIMMING
SECTION:
9-5-1: License Required; Fee
9-5-2: Bond
9-5-3: Insurance
9-5-4: Equipment
9-5-5: Violation; Penalty
9-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the
business of trimming, cutting or pruning trees or shrubbery within the city
limits unless and until such person, firm or corporation has applied for and
obtained from the city a license to conduct the business within the city. (2000
Code § 9-601)
   B.   Annual License Fee: No license shall be issued by the city until the
applicant pays a license fee as set by the council by motion or resolution.
Such license fee shall expire on December 31 of each year following date of
issuance. The full annual fee shall be paid in advance and no license shall be
for less than a full annual fee. (2000 Code § 9-601; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008,
eff. 4-10-2008)
9-5-2: BOND:
   Before the issuance of any license, any person, firm or corporation engaging
in the business of pruning, cutting and trimming trees or shrubbery as provided
herein shall file a surety bond with the city in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) payable to the city and conditioned that the principal will
at all times do all cutting, trimming and pruning strictly in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, and that all work will be done in a good and
workmanlike manner, that the city shall be fully indemnified and held whole and
harmless from any and all costs, expense or damage to real property or personal
injury done to any person or property in the prosecution of the work by any
person, firm or corporation engaged in such business, and that may arise out of
or be occasioned in the performance of the work; and that any person, firm or
corporation engaged in the business will cause all property damage by such
person, firm or corporation to be repaired and put in the same condition as it
was before the work was done. No license shall be issued to any person, firm or
corporation engaged in such business until such bond has been filed and
approved by the city manager. (2000 Code § 9-602)
9-5-3: INSURANCE:
   A.   Insurance Required: Before any license is issued for any person, firm
or corporation as defined in this chapter, he or they shall file with the city,
to be approved by the city manager, an insurance policy for an indemnity fund
as hereinafter provided: An insurance policy issued by an insurance company
licensed to do business in the state providing public liability insurance for
each and every operation or job performance by such person, firm or corporation
engaged in such business as set forth herein; the insurance policy will be in
the sum of: (2000 Code § 9-603)
      1.   Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for the injury or death of any
person;
      2.   One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for the injury or death
of any number of people in one accident growing out of the work of such person,
firm or corporation engaged in such business as provided herein; and
      3.   Coverage of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for property damage
in any one accident. (2000 Code § 9-603; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-
2008)
   B.   Policy Conditions; Cancellation: The policy shall further provide that
it cannot be cancelled until at least ten (10) days' notice has been given to
the city and the policy shall carry an endorsement of actual notice to the city
for any change therein, the policy to be approved by the city manager and
endorsed thereon. The policy shall be approved as to form by the city attorney.
The policy shall be made for the use, benefit and protection of any person who
may suffer injury either to his person or property by reason of any accident or
omission or negligence of any person, firm or corporation engaged in such
business as provided herein. The policy must be approved by the city manager,
and if approved, shall remain in full force and effect during the life of such
license issued. If, after the approval of such policy and after the issuance of
the license, such policy is allowed to lapse or is not renewed by the payment
of premiums, the city may cancel any license issued under provisions of this
chapter, and after notice to the licensee and after an opportunity to be heard.
The cancellation of any policy shall in no way affect or terminate any
liability arising prior to the effective date of the cancellation. (2000 Code §
9-603)
9-5-4: EQUIPMENT:
   Each and every person engaged in the cutting, pruning and trimming of trees
or shrubbery within the city shall have appropriate equipment to conduct the
business in a diligent and workmanlike manner, and such equipment shall be
inspected by the city inspector before any license is issued to any applicant
for such license as to the condition and necessary equipment to perform the
work by each and every person engaged in the business and who has applied for a
license with the city to conduct such business. (2000 Code § 9-604)
9-5-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of this chapter
by doing that which is prohibited, or by failing or refusing to do what is
required is guilty of misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 9-605)
CHAPTER 6
PARADES AND PUBLIC MEETINGS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Definitions
9-6-2: Permit Required
9-6-3: Permit Board; Composition
9-6-4: Unlawful Acts
9-6-5: Violation; Penalty
9-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this chapter:
   PUBLIC: The community at large.
   PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM: Any loudspeaker mounted outside a vehicle cab for the
purpose of amplifying music or voice transmissions. City emergency vehicles and
city repair/service vehicles are exempt.
   PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting or gathering open to the public for general
discussion.
   RELIGIOUS MEETING: A meeting or gathering of the public for discussion of
religion or religious matters. (2000 Code § 9-901)
9-6-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Application For Permit; Issuance:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or cause to be
conducted any peaceable parade, public or religious meeting, celebration or
demonstration on any city street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park or any public
grounds of the city without first having obtained a permit therefor from the
community services office as herein provided. (Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-
2008)
      2.   Any person desiring to have or conduct a parade or hold a lawful,
peaceable, public or religious meeting, or use a public address system upon any
of the streets, alleys, parks or outdoor public places within the city shall
make application for permit in the community services office of the city, in
writing, giving the time, date or dates that the parade or meeting will be
held, and the names of the persons or organizations who will hold or conduct
the same.
      3.   Upon the application, the city permit board may grant a permit,
revocable at any time, for such persons or organizations to hold a meeting at
such time and place, and in such manner upon the public thoroughfares in the
city as the permit board shall determine will not interfere with the general
traffic or the convenience of the public in the use of the streets, alleys,
parks or public places and will not endanger the health and safety of the
community or participants of the parade or meeting.
   B.   Time Limit Prior To Event: Parade permits must be obtained two (2)
weeks prior to the date of the parade or meeting.
   C.   Permit Fee: Fee for one parade shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) payable
at the community services office when the permit is obtained. (2000 Code § 9-
902)
   D.   Waiver Of Fee: Fees will be waived for events sponsored by the city of
Seminole, Seminole chamber of commerce, Seminole public schools and Seminole
Nation Of Oklahoma only. (Ord. 1132, 5-10-2011)
9-6-3: PERMIT BOARD; COMPOSITION:
   The city permit board shall be composed of the mayor, the city manager and
all department heads, which board shall pass upon all such permit applications
and, in the discretion of the majority of the board, may grant or deny any/all
applications made. The board may require modifications, regulations, equipment
or any other requirements deemed necessary for the safety and good health of
the community and participants. (Ord. 964, 10-14-2003)
9-6-4: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Failure To Obtain Permit: It is unlawful for any person to hold or
assist in holding any parade or meeting or use any public address system
without first obtaining such permit for the time and place where the parade or
meeting shall be held.
   B.   Disturbing Assemblage: It is unlawful and an offense to disturb or
disquiet any such parade or meeting or make any loud or unusual noise, or by
rude conduct annoy the speaker or other persons gathered at the meeting or in
the parade.
   C.   Distributing Candy Or Objects From Vehicle: It is unlawful to
distribute souvenirs, candy, gum or other objects by throwing, tossing or other
distributions from a vehicle. (2000 Code § 9-904)
9-6-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 9-905)
CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS TRADES REGULATED
SECTION:
9-7-1: Septic Tank And Cesspool Cleaners
9-7-2: Mobile Vendors
9-7-1: SEPTIC TANK AND CESSPOOL CLEANERS:
   A.   Annual License Fee: There is hereby imposed an annual license fee in
the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) on any person and business engaged in septic
tank and cesspool cleaning. The license shall be renewed each year before July
1 and the annual license shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   B.   Issuance Of Permit; Bond Required: The license shall be issued by and
the fee collected by the City building official. However, no license shall be
issued until a good and sufficient surety bond in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) is approved by and filed with the City Community Services
Office. (2000 Code § 9-1001; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   C.   Failure To Obtain License; Penalty: Each day a person or business
engages in septic tank or cesspool cleaning without obtaining the necessary
license shall constitute a separate offense punishable under the provisions of
section 1-1-8 of this Code. (2000 Code § 9-1001)
9-7-2: MOBILE VENDORS:
   A.   Mobile Vendor is described as any vendor who sells wares from a mobile
vehicle, trailer, pop-up tent, or any other type of non-permanent structure
used for the sale of food or merchandise and can be taken down at the end of
the day for transport. This includes mobile vendors who provide free services
to the public, including, but not limited to, hearing aid testing and cellular
phones.
   B.   Location: A mobile vendor cannot be within three hundred feet (300') of
the following streets inside city limits:
      1.   Broadway Avenue.
      2.   Boren Boulevard.
      3.   Wrangler Boulevard (also known as State Highway 9).
      4.   Milt Phillips Avenue (also known as State Highway 99 or US 377).
      5.   Harvey Road (also known as US 270).
      6.   Designated Area Exception: A 'designated area' for mobile vendors
may be approved for short periods of time upon application to the office of
Community Development. All applications must be submitted at least one week in
advance of the event. The Director of Community Development shall be authorized
to approve or disapprove the application.
      7.   A permanent designated area may be determined by the City Council.
      8.   Exemption: Food Truck Events: A currently operational commercial
business may apply for up to twelve (12) event permits per year on their
premises to host mobile food vendor(s).
         a.   An 'event' will include a period of time beginning noon Friday
and ending at noon the following Monday, for any or all days between that
period.
         b.   Commercial businesses are responsible for obtaining a fifty
dollars ($50.00) permit for each event.
         c.   All mobile food vendors catering these events will be responsible
for obtaining an annual license to work within the City of Seminole at a cost
of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
         d.   Mobile food vendors must continue to he compliant with state and
city rules and regulations, and must not park in any street/highway rights of
way.
         e.   Vendors shall make trash receptacles available to the public, and
the vendors and businesses are required to keep the area free of trash.
         f.   Commercial businesses must include ample parking space as to not
congest or block any streets/highways or cause a sight barrier for other
vehicles.
         g.   Mobile Food vendor applications are subject to all applicable
rules set forth in this title.
         h.   Violation: Penalty Any person found violating this provision of
this chapter of the codes adopted, upon conviction, be punished in accordance
with Sections
1-1-8 and
1-1-9 of this code.
   C.   All other mobile vendors must obtain an annual license before
establishing any vending operations. The license fee is two hundred dollars
($200.00) annually. Licenses shall be valid from January 1 until December 31
annually.
      1.   Exceptions: Fees may be waived for the following:
         a.   City-wide events sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce, Seminole
Main Street Association, Seminole Public Schools, or similar event;
         b.   Non-profit mobile vendor with 501(c)(3) or other appropriate non-
profit designation;
         c.   Special events approved for waiver of fees upon application to
the Permit Board.
   D.   All mobile vendors must provide appropriate documentation from the
Oklahoma Tax Commission, Oklahoma Health Department or other government
agencies as may be applicable to the office of Community Development upon
application for permit or upon request.
   E.   Municipal Property: Mobile vendors may only utilize municipal property
with the consent of the City Manager or his/her designee. Any request to
utilize or access municipal property for mobile vending operations shall be
approved by the Permit Board. This provision shall not apply to lessees of
municipal property or vendors approved by the Director of the Donald W.
Reynolds Community and Wellness Center.
   F.   All mobile vendors shall be required to notify the office of Community
Development within twenty-four (24) hours in advance of arrival and commencing
operations. Permit and License fees shall be paid in advance or upon arrival to
the office of Community Development.
   G.   The Director of Community Development may deny the issuance of a permit
and/or license under the following circumstances:
      1.   Information in the application is false, lacking or unverifiable;
      2.   Verification cannot be obtained regarding current status of OTC
permit;
      3.   Unresolved customer complaints are found to exist involving any
matter related to the business activities of the applicant;
      4.   A person has a history of criminal conduct which may pose a threat
to the protection of the public good;
      5.   A person's character and/or business reputation are determined to be
unsound and contrary to the public good.
   H.   Exceptions: The following vendors shall be exempt from obtaining a
license as follows:
      1.   Fireworks vendors who have obtained a proper permit pursuant to
Title 9, Chapter 10.
      2.   Farmers who market produce pursuant to Title 9, Chapter 2, Section
8A.
      3.   Any other license or permit required by Title 9 of the Code of
Ordinances. (Ord. 1203, 5-9-2017; amd. Ord. 1234, 11-12-2019; Ord. 1270, 8-9-
2022)
CHAPTER 8
RESIDENTIAL SALES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Definitions
9-8-2: Permit Fee; Number Restricted; Revocation; Refusal
9-8-3: Sale Restrictions
9-8-4: Public Nuisance
9-8-5: Compliance Inspection
9-8-6: Parking
9-8-7: Exceptions
9-8-8: Penalty
9-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Terms Defined: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in
this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Property which is owned, utilized and acquired in the
normal course of living in or maintaining a residence. Personal property does
not include merchandise which was purchased for resale, obtained on consignment
or acquired through the operation of a business.
   RESIDENTIAL SALE: Any sale of what is held out to be or is commonly known as
a garage, porch, room, backyard, or patio sale; or any other type of general
sale conducted from or on any premises located in a residential zoning
district, where goods or articles of any type are held out for sale to the
public.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   The definition of a "residential sale" shall not include a situation
where specific items are held out for sale and all advertisements of such sale
specifically name the items to be sold. No more than two (2) items at any one
time are allowed under this exception.
      2.   The definition of a "residential sale" shall not include items
offered for sale on the internet or through any electronic media. Said items
shall not be placed in public view and marked as for sale. (Ord. 1131, 4-12-
2011)
9-8-2: PERMIT FEE; NUMBER RESTRICTED; REVOCATION; REFUSAL:
   A.   Permit And Fee Requirements: There is hereby imposed a residential
sales fee in the sum of five dollars ($5.00) per occasion on any person engaged
in a residential sale. A permit shall be issued by, and the fee collected by,
the city water office, or other department designated by the city manager.
Permits shall be obtained at least twenty four (24) hours prior to any
residential sale. In the event a residential sales permit is not obtained in a
timely manner, a permit may be issued by the licensing authority on or after
the day of the sale for good cause, in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00).
The residential sales fee may be modified as required by resolution adopted by
the city council.
   B.   Time Limit; Number Restricted: No person shall hold, conduct, engage in
or participate in any manner or allow a residential sale to be held or
conducted on premises under his control or ownership more than three (3) times,
lasting more than three (3) days per occasion, within a twelve (12) month
period of time.
   C.   Revocation: Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked or any
application for issuance of a permit may be refused by the city clerk if the
application submitted by the applicant or permit holder contains any false,
fraudulent or misleading information.
   D.   Refusal: If any person is convicted of an offense under this chapter,
the city clerk is instructed to cancel any existing residential sale permit
held by the person so convicted and not to issue such person another
residential sale permit for a period of two (2) years from the date of
conviction. (Ord. 1131, 4-12-2011; amd. Ord. 1239, 3-10-2020)
9-8-3: SALE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Sale Area: The sale area of any residential sale is confined to the
premises under the control or ownership of the sale operator. No unoccupied or
vacant premises shall be used for sales as described herein except for sales
conducted under process of law.
   B.   Removal Of Items: The permit holder shall remove all unsold items from
public view no later than forty eight (48) hours from end of sale.
   C.   Display Of Sale Property: Personal property offered for sale may be
displayed in a garage or within the residence. Property may also be offered for
sale under an open carport, on a driveway or in a yard in an area not to exceed
nine hundred (900) square feet. (Ord. 1131, 4-12-2011)
9-8-4: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   The individual conducting the sale and the owner or tenant of the premises
on which such sale or activity is conducted shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the maintenance of good order and decorum on the premises
during all hours of such sale or activity. No individual shall permit any loud
or boisterous conduct on the premises nor permit vehicles to impede the passage
of traffic on any roads or streets in the area of such premises. All such
individuals shall obey the reasonable orders of any member of the police
department, fire department or any code enforcement official in order to
maintain the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 1127, 10-12-2010)
9-8-5: COMPLIANCE INSPECTION:
A police officer or any other code enforcement official designated by the city
manager to make inspections under the building or zoning regulations shall have
the right of entry to any premises showing evidence of a garage sale for the
purpose of enforcement or inspection and may close the premises from such a
sale for violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1127, 10-12-2010)
9-8-6: PARKING:
   All parking of vehicles shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable
laws and ordinances. The police department may enforce such temporary controls
necessary to alleviate any special hazards or congestion created by a
residential sale. (Ord. 1127, 10-12-2010)
9-8-7: EXCEPTIONS:
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following:
   A.   Persons acting pursuant to an order of a court of competent
jurisdiction; and
   B.   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials. (Ord. 1127, 10-12-2010)
9-8-8: PENALTY:
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. Every article
sold and every day a sale is conducted in violation of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1127, 10-12-2010)
CHAPTER 9
ICE CREAM TRUCK VENDORS
SECTION:
9-9-1: License Required; Conditions
9-9-2: Bond Required
9-9-3: Health Department Approval
9-9-4: License Required; Application
9-9-5: License Fee; Term
9-9-6: Safety Regulations
9-9-7: Sales Restrictions
9-9-8: Penalty
9-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; CONDITIONS:
   No person shall engage in the business of vending ice cream from a truck
without first obtaining a license therefor. Prior to obtaining a license, each
applicant must present a surety bond in the penal sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), provide proof that the state commissioner of health has approved
the operation and prove that the vehicle meets all state and city safety
regulations. (Ord. 1113, 4-13-2010)
9-9-2: BOND REQUIRED:
   Every person applying for a license to engage in the business of vending ice
cream from a truck, before such license is issued, is required to enter into a
bond with the city with approved sureties in the penal sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), conditioned that: (2000 Code § 9-1202; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-
11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   A.   The applicant will strictly and faithfully observe all ordinances,
regulations and requirements of the city in relation to ice cream truck
vendors;
   B.   The applicant will pay all costs, fines or penalties incurred on
account of his failure or neglect in that behalf;
   C.   The applicant will, at all times, do all work and perform all services
relating to or arising from canvassing, soliciting and vending in a good and
workmanlike manner;
   D.   The city shall be fully indemnified and held whole and harmless from
any expenses or damages to real or personal property in the performance of such
work or the performance of such services that may arise out of or be occasioned
in the performance of such work or services, and that he will cause all
property damaged by him to be repaired and put in the same condition as it was
before the work was done; and
   E.   The applicant will pay all costs, expenses or damages arising from any
misrepresentation to any person to whom such applicant shall make any sale.
(2000 Code § 9-1202)
9-9-3: HEALTH DEPARTMENT APPROVAL:
   All vendors must possess a food handler's license and meet all requirements
of the state health department prior to applying for a city license. The
vendor's vehicle must also meet all state and city regulations. (2000 Code § 9-
1203)
9-9-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   License; Application: A license is required by this chapter, and proper
application shall be made to the city on forms furnished by the city. (2000
Code § 9-1204)
   B.   Information Required: Such application shall contain the following
information for each applicant and employee:
      1.   The name and physical description of the applicant or employee;
      2.   Both the permanent and local addresses of the applicant or employee;
      3.   The length of time desired to conduct business;
      4.   The source of supply of goods to be sold;
      5.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant or employee has been
convicted of any crime or any violations of any city ordinances, the nature of
such offense and the punishment or penalty;
      6.   The last three (3) cities wherein the applicant conducted business,
and the address of business location in those cities; and
      7.   Current Oklahoma state bureau of investigation background check must
be attached to the application. (2000 Code § 9-1204; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008,
eff. 4-10-2008)
9-9-5: LICENSE FEE; TERM:
A license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each vehicle will be assessed
for each vendor. Licenses shall be issued for a term of one year from the date
of issuance. (Ord. 1034, 4-11-2006; amd. Ord. 1073, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
9-9-6: SAFETY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lights On Vehicle: Such vehicle (while moving) shall be equipped with
two (2) flashing amber lights (mm. 4 inches in diameter) on top of the truck
and (while stopped) two (2) flashing red lights (mm. 4 inches in diameter) to
warn motorists to beware.
   B.   Signs On Vehicle: Signs shall be posted on the rear and sides of the
vehicle to warn motorists of frequent stops, children playing in the area and
company name.
   C.   Dispensing From Curbside: Merchandise shall be dispensed from the
curbside only. (2000 Code § 9-1206)
9-9-7: SALES RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Hours: No ice cream vendor shall operate in the city from sunset to
sunrise.
   B.   Prohibited In Certain Zones, Park: No ice cream vendor shall operate at
any time in a hospital zone, school zone or city park. (2000 Code § 9-1207)
9-9-8: PENALTY:
   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 9-1208)
CHAPTER 10
FIREWORKS STANDS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Application For License
9-10-2: Eligibility Of Applicant
9-10-3: Fees
9-10-4: Fireworks Stand Requirements
9-10-5: Penalty
9-10-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   Any person, organization, or business seeking to sell fireworks must apply
for a license between April 15 and June 1 of the license year to the community
services department by filing a written application in such form and content as
the city manager may prescribe. (Ord. 979, 10-12-2004)
9-10-2: ELIGIBILITY OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Age: Applicants must be at least twenty one (21) years of age at the
time of application.
   B.   Insurance: Applicants must provide minimum liability insurance of five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for bodily injury and property damage
from an insurance agency currently licensed to do business within the state of
Oklahoma. Proof of insurance must be submitted with the application.
   C.   Invoicing Of Fireworks: All fireworks must be invoiced from a
distributor or wholesaler licensed to do business in the state of Oklahoma. The
original invoice must be in the applicant's name and be available upon request.
   D.   Proof Of Tax Payment: Applications must be accompanied with proof of
tax payment for the previous year. Applications of a new business venture must
be accompanied by an affidavit verifying that the applicant has not engaged in
selling fireworks previously or, in the alternative, was not required to pay
city, state or federal taxes.
   E.   Proof Of State Permit: Applicants must supply proof of state permit for
the license year and comply with all fireworks laws of the state, 68 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 1621 through 1634. (Ord. 979, 10-12-2004)
9-10-3: FEES:
A fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) must accompany the application. A
license fee is required for each fireworks stand. (Ord. 979, 10-12-2004)
9-10-4: FIREWORKS STAND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location; Property Owner Consent: Each stand must be located on
property zoned commercial, with written consent from the property owner dated
and filed with the application, or on property owned by the city, contingent
upon written approval of the city manager. (Ord. 995, 5-10-2005)
   B.   Distance From Other Structures: A minimum of one hundred feet (100')
must exist between all fireworks stands and any other structures.
   C.   Posting Of Signs:
      1.   No Smoking: A "no smoking" sign must be posted on the fireworks
stand within public view.
      2.   Discharging Fireworks Within City Limits Prohibited: A sign stating
that it is unlawful to discharge fireworks within the city limits must be
posted on each fireworks stand within public view.
   D.   Fire Extinguisher: Each fireworks stand must have at least one approved
ABC fire extinguisher, minimum size of five (5) pounds.
   E.   Distance From Fuel Tanks: Fireworks must be a minimum of one hundred
fifty feet (150') away from fuel pumps, propane tanks, or any other facility or
structure where flammable liquid is commercially sold or dispensed.
   F.   Time Limitation: Firework stands may not be erected prior to June 15,
and shall be removed by July 7 of the license year.
   G.   Adult Person In Charge: A person eighteen (18) years of age or older
shall be present and in charge of the fireworks stand at all times.
   H.   Hours: Fireworks stands may conduct business between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. of the license year
excluding the evenings of July 3 and July 4 when they may remain open until one
o'clock (1:00) A.M.
   I.   Sales To Underage Persons: It shall be unlawful to offer for sale any
fireworks to children under the age of twelve (12) years, unless accompanied by
an adult.
   J.   Inspection: The code enforcement officer and/or fire marshal must
inspect the fireworks site and stand, for safety and ordinance compliance,
prior to opening for business. (Ord. 979, 10-12-2004)
   K.   Noncombustible Surface: All fireworks stands shall be on a
noncombustible surface (asphalt, concrete, gravel), with the surface area being
twice the size in square feet as the actual tent, or in the absence of a tent,
the fireworks stand.
   L.   Restrooms: All fireworks stands shall have working restroom facilities
on site, whether those be in an enclosed camper on the premises or through the
rental of a portable unit. (Ord. 1162, 3-11-2014)
9-10-5: PENALTY:
   Any person violating this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this
code. (Ord. 979, 10-12-2004)
CHAPTER 11
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
9-11-1: Intent And Purpose
9-11-2: Definitions
9-11-3: License Required
9-11-4: General Provisions
9-11-5: Application
9-11-6: Locations Of Medical Marijuana Businesses
9-11-7: Separation
9-11-8: Offenses
9-11-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the intent of this chapter to ensure the health and safety of all
Oklahomans and provide reasonable and orderly regulation of medical marijuana
as authorized by the lawful passage of State Question 788.
      1.   The regulations are intended to apply to all medical marijuana
operations in the City of Seminole, whether by a patient or caregiver under the
Medical Marijuana Statute, or any other medical marijuana business permitted
under state law. Medical Marijuana cultivation and production can have an
impact on health, safety, and community resources, and the Code is intended to
permit medical marijuana cultivation where it will have a minimal impact.
      2.   Use, distribution, cultivation, production, possession and
transportation of medical marijuana remains illegal under federal law and
marijuana remains classified as a "controlled substance" by federal law.
      3.   The regulations for medical marijuana uses are not adequate at the
state level to address the impacts on the city of medical marijuana, making it
appropriate for local regulation of the impacts of medical marijuana uses.
      4.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to promote or condone the
production, distribution, or possession of marijuana in violation of applicable
law.
      5.   This chapter is to be construed to protect the public over medical
marijuana business interests. Operation of a medical marijuana business is a
revocable privilege and not a right in the city. There is no property right for
an individual or business to have medical marijuana in the city.
      6.   Medical marijuana is a heavily regulated industry in the city, all
licensees are assumed to be fully aware of the law, the city shall not
therefore be required to issue warnings before issuing citations for violations
of this chapter.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health,
safety and welfare of the residents and patients of the City by prescribing the
manner in which medical marijuana businesses can be conducted in the City.
Further, the purpose of this chapter is to:
      1.   Provide for a means of cultivation, production, and distribution of
marijuana to patients who qualify to obtain, possess and use marijuana for
medical purposes under the Oklahoma State Statutes.
      2.   Protect public health and safety through reasonable limitations on
business operations as they relate to noise, air and water quality, food
safety, neighborhood and patient safety, security for the business and its
personnel, and other health and safety concerns.
      3.   Promote lively street life and high quality neighborhoods by
limiting the concentration of any one type of business in specific areas.
      4.   Impose fees to cover the cost to the city of licensing medical
marijuana businesses in an amount sufficient for the city to recover its cost
of the licensing program.
      5.   Adopt a mechanism for monitoring compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      6.   Create regulations that address the particular needs of the patients
and residents of the city and coordinate with laws that may be enacted by the
State regarding the issue.
      7.   Facilitate the implementation of the state statute without going
beyond the authority granted by it.
      8.   Issue medical marijuana business licenses only to individuals and
entities that have demonstrated an intent and ability to comply with this
chapter without monitoring by city officials.
      9.   Exclude from the definition of a medical marijuana business the
private possession, production, and medical use of marijuana by an individual
patient or the private possession, production, distribution, and medical use of
marijuana by an individual caregiver for one patient, in the residence of the
patient or caregiver, to the extent permitted by Oklahoma State Statutes.
   C.   Relationship To State Law: The provisions in this chapter that are
different from the state law are consistent with the city's responsibility to
protect the public health, safety and welfare as authorized by state statute,
and by the home rules authority granted to the city by state statute and the
charter of the city. The city intends that both state law and this chapter
apply within the city. Where this chapter conflicts with state law, this
chapter shall apply on all matters authorized by state statute, and all matters
of local concern. (Ord. 1223, 8-14-2018, eff. 8-14-2018; amd. Ord. 1246, 6-9-
2020)
9-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings,
unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
             A corporation, partnership, or other business entity, or individual person or
APPLICANT:   persons over twenty-one (21) years of age, who has submitted an application for a
             license pursuant to this chapter.
APPLICATION: An application for license submitted pursuant to this chapter.
             For the purposes of this chapter, any commercial or industrial business who has
BUSINESS:    control of medical marijuana, including, but not limited to, dispensaries,
             processing, manufacturing, cultivation, or transporation of any cannabis product or
             byproduct.
CITY:        The City of Seminole, Oklahoma.
             The process by which a person promotes the germination and/or growth of a seed to a
CULTIVATION: mature marijuana plant. Cultivation does not include the storing or watering of
             mature marijuana plants without the aid of grow lighting.
DAY:         A calendar day, unless otherwise noted.
             For the purpose of denying a license or renewal under this chapter:
             1.   The licensee has violated, does not meet, or has failed to comply with any of
             the terms, conditions or provisions of this chapter and any rule and regulation
             promulgated pursuant to this chapter or any state law or regulation or federal law
             except any federal law that conflicts with Proposition 412.
             2.   The licensee has failed to comply with any special terms or conditions that
             were placed on its license at the time the license was issued, or that were placed
             on its license at the time the license was issued, or that were placed on its
             license in prior disciplinary proceeding or that arose in the content of potential
             disciplinary proceedings; or
             3.   The licensee's medical marijuana center has been operated in a manner that
             adversely affects the public health, welfare or safety of the city. Evidence to
GOOD CAUSE:  support such a finding can include, but is not limited to:
                a.   A continuing pattern of offenses against the public peace, as defined in
             Title 8, Health and Sanitation, and Title 10, Offenses and Crimes;
                b.   A continuing pattern of drug related criminal conduct within the premises
             of the medical marijuana center;
                c.   A continuing pattern of criminal conduct directly relating to or arising
             from the operation of the medical marijuana center;
                d.   A felony associated with the center, one or more of its owner(s) or
             manager;
                e.   Failure to provide correct information for each person required in
             subsection E of this chapter;
                f.   Failure to pay sales taxes in full by the deadlines specified by Oklahoma
             Tax Commission code.
LICENSE:     A license to operate a medical marijuana center issued by the city pursuant to this
             chapter.
LICENSEE:    The person to whom a license has been issued pursuant to this chapter.
             All parts of a plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or not; the seeds of a
             plant of that type; the resin extracted from a part of a plant of that type; and
             every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of a plant
             of that type or of its seeds or resin. "Marijuana" does not include the mature
MARIJUANA:   stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the talks, oils or cade made from the
             seeds of the plant, or any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture
             or preparation of the mature stalks, except the resin extracted from the mature
             stalks, fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable
             or germination.
MEDICAL      A person licensed pursuant this this chapter to operate a business as described in
MARIJUANA    this section that sells medical marijuana to registered patients or primary
CENTER OR    caregivers.
CENTER:
             Either public or private nurseries, kindergartens, elementary, which may include
             either K-6 or K-8, secondary and technology center schools, not to exceed two (2)
SCHOOL:      years of junior college work, night schools, adult and other special classes,
             vocational and technical instruction and such other school classes and instruction
             as may be authorized by laws which are not in effect or which may hereafter be
             enacted. (Ord. 1223, 8-14-2018, eff. 8-14-2018; amd. Ord. 1246, 6-9-2020)
 
9-11-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
medical marijuana business without obtaining a license to operate pursuant to
the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Licenses And Permits: The license requirement set forth in
this chapter shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other licensing
and permitting requirements imposed by any other federal, state or local law,
including, by way of example, a retail sales and use tax license, a retail food
establishment license or any applicable zoning or building permit.
   C.   Exemption From Other Laws: The issuance of any license pursuant to this
chapter does not create an exemption, defense, or immunity to any person in
regard to any potential criminal liability the person may have for the
production, distribution, or possession of marijuana.
   D.   Separate License For Each Location: A separate license shall be
required for each premises from which a medical marijuana business is operated.
Except as specifically provided in this chapter, no two (2) or more different
medical marijuana businesses may be treated as one premises. Unless higher
performance is required by applicable law, there must be a minimum of a one-
hour fire separation wall between a medical marijuana business and any adjacent
business.
   E.   Nontransferable; A medical marijuana business license is not
transferable or assignable, including, without limitation, not transferable or
assignable to a different premises, to a different type of business, or to a
different owner or licensee. A medical marijuana business license is valid only
for the owner named thereon, the type of business disclosed on the application
for the license, and the location for which the license is issued. The
licensees of a medical marijuana business license are only those persons
disclosed in the application of subsequently disclosed to the city in
accordance to this chapter. (Ord. 1223, 8-14-2018, eff. 8-14-2018; amd. Ord.
1246, 6-9-2020)
9-11-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Licensing Provisions: The general procedures and requirements
of licenses, as more fully set forth in Title 9, Chapter 1, General License and
Permit Provisions, shall apply to medical marijuana business licenses. To the
extent there is any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and Title 9
Chapter 1, the provisions of this chapter shall control for medical marijuana
business licenses.
   B.   Defense To Criminal Prosecutions: Compliance with the requirements of
this chapter shall not provide an exception, immunity, or defense to criminal
prosecution under any applicable law, except in the City of Seminole Municipal
Court, for a violation of this chapter as specifically provided herein.
   C.   Cost Of Inspection And Clean-Up: In the event the city incurs costs in
the inspection, clean-up, surrender of plants, or any other requirements to
removed medical marijuana of any medical marijuana business, or any person
cultivating, producing, distributing, or possessing marijuana, the business and
responsible person shall reimburse the city all actual costs incurred by the
city for such inspection or clean-up.
   D.   Forfeiture Of License: In the event that a medical marijuana business
does not commence operations within thirty (30) days of issuance of a license
from the city, the license shall be deemed forfeited and the business may not
commence operations. Nothing shall prohibit the licensee from reapplying for
another permit after 180 days from the date of forfeiture.
   E.   Landlord Duty: It shall be unlawful for the owner of a building to
lease space or allow the use of any portion of the building by a medical
marijuana business unless the tenant has a valid medical marijuana business
license or has applied for and not been denied a medical marijuana business
license or no marijuana is located on the premises until a license has been
issued by the city. In the event that the city has an articulable reason to
believe that a medical marijuana business is being operated in a building, it
shall be unlawful for the owner of the building to refuse to allow the city
access to the portion of the building in which the suspected medical marijuana
business is located to determine whether any marijuana is on the premises.
(Ord. 1223, 8-14-2018, eff. 8-14-2018; amd. Ord. 1246, 6-9-2020)
9-11-5: APPLICATION:
   A.   Requirements: An application for a medical marijuana business license
shall be made to the city on forms provided by the community development
director for that purpose. The applicant shall use the application to
demonstrate its compliance with this chapter and any other applicable law, rule
or regulation. In addition to the information required by Title 9, Licensing
and Business Regulations, the application shall include the following
information:
      1.   Name and address of the owner or owners of the medical marijuana
business in whose name the license is proposed to be issued.
         a.   If an owner is a corporation, the name and address of any officer
or director of the corporation and of any person holding issued and outstanding
capital stock of the corporation.
         b.   If an owner is a partnership, association or company, the name
and address of any person holding an interest therein and the managing members.
If a managing member is an entity rather than an individual, the same
disclosure shall be required for each entity with an ownership interest until a
managing member that is a natural person is identified.
         c.   If an owner is not a natural person, the organizational documents
for all entities identified in the application, identification of the natural
person that is authorized to speak for the entity and contact information for
that person.
      2.   Proof of ownership or legal possession of the restricted area for a
medical marijuana business for the term of the proposed license. If the medical
marijuana business is not the owner of the premises of the business, the
applicant shall provide written authorization to the city from the owner to
enter the property for inspection of the premises on a form approved by the
city.
      3.   Proof of insurance.
      4.   An operating plan for the proposed medical marijuana business,
including the following information:
         a.   A description of the products and services to be provided by the
medical marijuana business;
         b.   A dimensioned floor plan, clearly labeled, showing:
            (1)   The layout of the structure and the floor plan in which the
medical marijuana business is to be located;
            (2)   The principal uses of the floor area depicted on the floor
plan, including, but not limited to, private consulting areas, storage areas,
retail areas, and restricted areas where medical marijuana will be located;
            (3)   Areas where any services other than the distribution of
medical marijuana are proposed to occur in the premises.
         c.   For cultivation facilities, a plan that specifies the methods to
be used to prevent the growth of harmful mold and other harmful elements. Said
plan shall also set forth a procedure for compliance with limitations on
discharge into the wastewater system of the city as set forth in Title 17,
Utilities.
      5.   A zoning confirmation from the city, to ascertain within a radius
boundaries of the property upon with the medical marijuana business is located,
the proximity of the property to any school, to any other medical marijuana
business or to any residential zone district.
      6.   A plan for disposal of any medical marijuana or medical marijuana-
infused product that is not sold to a patient or primary caregiver in a manner
that protects any portion thereof from being possessed or ingested by any
person or animal.
      7.   A plan for ventilation of the medical marijuana business that
describes the ventilation systems that will be used to prevent any odor of
medical marijuana off the premises of the business. For medical marijuana
businesses that grow medical marijuana plants, such plan shall also include all
ventilation systems used to control the environment for the plants and describe
how such systems operate with the systems preventing any odor leaving the
premises. For medical marijuana businesses that produce medical marijuana-
infused products, such plan shall also include all ventilation systems used to
mitigate noxious gases or other fumes used or created as part of the production
process.
      8.   A description of all toxic, flammable or other materials regulated
by a federal, state or local government that would have authority over the
business if it was not a marijuana business, that will be used or kept at the
medical marijuana business, the location of such materials, and how such
materials will be stored.
      9.   Modifications To Approved License: Prior to making a modification of
a marijuana business that would require a building permit or change items
required by this chapter, the licensees shall submit to the city and have
approved, when necessary a completed application for modification of premises
in the form provided by the city.
   B.   Fee Required: Any application for a medical marijuana business permit
shall be accompanied by the annual license fee, and any other applicable fees.
   C.   Approval Requirements: The community development director may issue a
medical marijuana business license if the inspection, background checks, and
all other information available to the city verify that the applicant has
submitted a full and complete application, has made improvements to the
business location consistent with the application, and is prepared to operate
the business with other owners and managers as set forth in the application,
all in compliance with this code and any other applicable law, rule or
regulation. The director will deny any application that does not meet the
requirements of this chapter or any other applicable law, rule or regulation,
or that contains any false or incomplete information. The conditions of an
approval of a medical marijuana business license shall include, at a minimum,
operation of the business in compliance with all of the plans and information
made part of the application. (Ord. 1223, 8-14-2018, eff. 8-14-2018; amd. Ord.
1246, 6-9-2020)
9-11-6: LOCATIONS OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESSES:
   A.   Fixed Location Required: With the exception of a commercial grower, it
shall be unlawful to operate a medical marijuana business medical marijuana
outside of an enclosed building. All medical marijuana business licenses shall
be issued for a specific fixed location within an enclosed building. The
portion of such premises upon which the floor plan shows medical marijuana may
be produced, dispensed, or possessed shall be considered the "restricted area"
portion of the business premises.
      1.   Mobile medical marijuana sales of all types are prohibited within
the City of Seminole. This includes but is not limited to trailers,
recreational vehicles, and trucks.
   B.   Location – Permitted Use In Zoning District: A medical marijuana
business license may be issued only if the business qualified as a use
permitted as a matter of right in the zone district where it is proposed to be
located as follows:
      1.   As "personal services" for a medical marijuana dispensary;
      2.   As "greenhouse/nursery" for a cultivation facility; or
      3.   As "manufacturing +/- 15,000 square feet" for a cultivation
facility, medical marijuana-infused product manufacturer, processor or
marijuana testing facility.
   C.   No Medical Marijuana Business In Building With Residences Or
Residential Zone Districts: It shall be unlawful to operate a medical marijuana
business in a building which contains a residence, or within a dwelling unit
within any zone district, or within a residential zone district, or within a
mixed use development that includes a residence. This restriction shall not
apply to a medical marijuana dispensary that had submitted an application or
held a license from the city prior to any residences constructed in a zone
other than residential.
   D.   No Retail Sales In Cultivation Facilities Or Manufacturing: It shall be
unlawful for any person to permit retail sales within a medical marijuana
business that is a cultivation facility or processor or manufacturer. (Ord.
1223, 8-14-2018, eff. 8-14-2018; amd. Ord. 1246, 6-9-2020)
9-11-7: SEPARATION:
   A.   No medical marijuana retail distribution licenses shall be issued for a
location within one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following locations:
      1.   Private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational or
trade school.
   B.   No medical marijuana licenses shall be issued for a location within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the following locations:
      1.   Any residentially zoned district; or
      2.   Another medical marijuana business.
   C.   Exemption; Central Business District: No medical marijuana dispensary
license shall be issued within one hundred feet (100') of the above mentioned
locations, with the exception of any and all public and/or private schools and
institutions of learning, where the one thousand foot (1,000') rule still
applies.
      1.   The Central Business District is identified as the boundaries of
Seminole Main Street Association.
   D.   Distances shall be measured by the city on official maps as the radius
from the the main entrance of the applicant's building to the main entrance of
the building of any location outlined in subsections A. and B. above.
      1.   To determine the proximity to other medical marijuana businesses and
the priority of applications, businesses shall have priority in the following
order:
         a.   Businesses that are open and operating;
         b.   Businesses whose applications have been approved;
         c.   Applications for medical marijuana business license that have
been submitted by the applicant and declared complete by the city;
         d.   No other applications shall be considered "businesses" for this
determination.
   E.   For purposes of this paragraph, school, college, or university shall
include properties owned by such entities only if they are used to provide
services, teaching facilities, secondary and higher education sports facilities
or living facilities to students. No distance is required between a marijuana
business and properties owned by a school, college or university that are not
used to provide teaching facilities, living facilities or services to students.
   F.   Limitations For Dispensaries: The following shall be the minimum
requirements for a medical marijuana dispensary:
      1.   A secured and locked medical marijuana dispensary room; business may
also include one or more private rooms for consultation on the medical use of
marijuana, and a separate reception area for screening of patients. (Ord. 1223,
8-14-2018, eff. 8-14-2018; amd. Ord. 1246, 6-9-2020)
9-11-8: OFFENSES:
   A.   Consumption Of Marijuana In Public Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall consume any marijuana in public.
      2.   For purposes of this section, public means:
         a.   In or upon any public way or public right of way, whether in a
vehicle or not;
         b.   On any property or in any building that is owned, leased, used
by, or open to the public; or
         c.   In or upon those portions of any private property upon which the
public has an express or implied license to enter or remain.
         d.   No person shall drive or sit in the driver's seat of any motor
vehicle, other than one licensed to carry passengers for hire, in which a
violation of subsection A. 2. a. of this section is occurring.
   B.   No person shall sell, serve, deliver, or give away any marijuana or any
product containing marijuana to any underage person or purchase marijuana or
marijuana-infused product for an underaged person. This subsection shall not
apply to a licensed caregiver tending to a licensed patient.
   C.   Marijuana Odor Emissions:
      1.   No person, tenant, occupant, or property owner shall permit the
emission of marijuana odor from any source to result in detectable odors that
leave the premises upon which they originated and interfere with the reasonable
and comfortable use and enjoyment of another's property.
      2.   Whether or not a marijuana odor emission interferes with the
reasonable and comfortable use and enjoyment of a property shall be measured
against the objective standards of a reasonable person of normal sensitivity.
      3.   A marijuana odor emission shall be deemed to interfere with the
reasonable and comfortable use and enjoyment of property if marijuana is
detectable outside the premises.
   D.   No person shall be convicted of a violation of subsection C. of this
section unless the city manager or his designee has delivered or posted a
written warning, in the previous twelve (12) months, that conduct violating
this section is occurring or has occurred.
      1.   The person, tenant, occupant, or property owner must abate the
marijuana odor emission within seven (7) days after the warning is delivered or
posted.
      2.   Seven (7) or more days after a warning is posted or delivered, a
separate violation of this section occurs on each day the marijuana odor
emission repeats or continues.
      3.   The warning shall cite this section.
      4.   The warning may be delivered personally or posted on the property.
      5.   It shall be presumed that a person charged under this section
received the warning if the warning was either (i) delivered to the property
owner, a tenant or an occupant; or (ii) posted on the property.
   E.   Extended Grace Period For Licensed Marijuana Cultivation Facilities: No
person who receives a warning at a licensed marijuana cultivation facility
shall be convicted of a violation that allegedly occurred within ninety (90)
days after the first warning issued pursuant to subsection D, of all of the
following conditions are met:
      1.   A first warning within twelve (12) months was previously issued
pursuant to subsection D. of this section for the person's property, and the
subject property is license as a marijuana cultivation facility by the city and
the state;
      2.   Seven (7) or fewer days after the warning was posted or delivered,
the person submitted a written document to the city manager or his designee
which explained (i) why the marijuana odor emissions could not be abated within
seven days feasibly, and (ii) how the person planned to abate the marijuana
odor emission in the following ninety (90) days;
      3.   The person receiving the warning has diligently pursued to
completion the plans for abating the marijuana odor emission; and
      4.   The written document described in subsection E. 2. was submitted
fewer than ninety (90) days before the date of the violation.
   F.   Unlawful To Transport Marijuana: It shall be unlawful for any person to
distribute, or contract to distribute, any marijuana using any freight or
package service, community rideshare, or other commercial transportation
network, not including the United States Postal Service.
   G.   Unlawful To Produce Marijuana Without A License: It shall be unlawful
for any person to:
      1.   Produce any marijuana commercially without a license from the city;
      2.   Possess extraction vessels, and butane, propane, compressed CO2,
ethanol, isopropanol, acetone, heptane, hexane or any other volatile materials
used in the commercial production of solvent-based marijuana concentrate, in
the same premise as marijuana without a license from the city.
   H.   Enforcement: Any personal use of cannabis and cannabis products within
the city in violation of this section, including any commercial cannabis
activity in residential zone districts, is hereby declared to be unlawful and a
public nuisance.
      1.   Any person who willfully or knowingly: 1) engages in a violation of
this section, or 2) owns, possesses, controls, or has charge of any parcel of
real property in the city upon which a violation of this section is maintained
and who has actual knowledge of such violation (or would have actual knowledge
of such violation after a reasonable inquiry), shall be subject to the
penalties and remedies provided by this section.
      2.   Any violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense
for each and every day the violation occurs or persists.
      3.   Any person in violation of any provision of this section or who
causes another person to be in violation of this section shall have committed a
misdemeanor. In addition which shall be punishable by a fine of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation and for each day the applicable
violation continues to persist.
      4.   Any person in violation of any provision of this section shall be
punishable by an administrative fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
offense.
   I.   Costs Of Inspections And Clean-Up: In the event the city incurs costs
in the inspection, clean-up, surrender of plants, or any other requirements to
remove medical marijuana of any medical marijuana business, or any person
cultivating, producing, distributing, or possessing marijuana, the business and
responsible person shall reimburse the city all actual costs incurred by the
city for such inspection or clean-up.
   J.   Revocations: Nothing shall prohibit the city manager or his designee
from revoking the license of any medical marijuana facility without notice upon
a showing of irreparable harm to the public health, safety or welfare. In the
event said license is revoked, a hearing shall be held within three (3)
business days before the city manager. Any adverse decision may be appealed to
the city council, who shall hold a hearing on the matter within thirty (30)
days. (Ord. 1223, 8-14-2018, eff. 8-14-2018; amd. Ord. 1246, 6-9-2020)
CHAPTER 12
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS
SECTION:
9-12-1: Authority; Purpose
9-12-2: Registration Of Telecommunication Service Providers
9-12-3: Permit Required
9-12-4: General Provisions
9-12-5: Penalty
9-12-1: AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The Telecommunications Act of 1996 preserves the
authority of state and cities to manage public rights-of-way, including the
power to impose fair and reasonable requirements for the identification and
inspection of fiber optic facilities and infrastructure of public rights-of-
way. Said authority is further vested in the City by virtue of state law. (11
O.S. §36-101; 18 O.S. §601)
   B.   Purpose: This provision is enacted to ensure all applicable operations
of telecommunications service providers are in conformance with established
regulations for installing, operating and maintaining related equipment and
services within public rights-of-way, to include, but not limited to, fiber
optic cable and other communication utilities. Said oversight only pertains to
those rights and powers reserved to the City as authorized by federal and state
law. Regulation of these activities is paramount to preserve the integrity of
the communications and data transfer infrastructure to preserve the health,
safety and welfare of the general public.
   C.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms have the
meanings ascribed below:
 
                  A corporation, partnership, or other business entity, or individual person or persons
APPLICANT:        on behalf of a Telecommunications Service Provider, who has submitted an application
                  for a permit required for certain activities pursuant to this chapter.
APPLICATION:      Shall be interpreted as the application for a permit submitted pursuant to this
                  chapter.
CITY:             The City of Seminole, Oklahoma.
                  For the purpose of denying a permit thereof under this chapter:, the following
                  conduct shall be considered prima facia evidence satisfying the element of "good
                  cause", to wit:
                     1.   The Applicant or Licensee has violated, does not meet, or has failed to
                  comply with any of the terms, conditions or provisions of this chapter and any rule
                  and regulation promulgated pursuant to this chapter or any state law or regulation or
                  federal law except any federal or state law that conflicts with the provisions set
                  forth herein.
                     2.   The Applicant or Licensee has failed to comply with any special terms,
                  requirements or conditions that were placed on its permit at the time the permit was
                  issued, or that were placed on its permit at the time the permit was issued, or that
                  were placed on its permit in prior disciplinary proceeding or that arose in the
                  content of potential disciplinary proceedings; or
GOOD CAUSE:          3.   The Applicant or Licensee's operations have been operated in a manner that
                  adversely affects the public health, welfare or safety of the City. Evidence to
                  support such a finding may include, but is not limited to:
                        a.   A continuing pattern of offenses against the public peace, as defined in
                  Title 8, Health and Sanitation, and Title 10, Offenses and Crimes;
                        b.   A continuing pattern of noncooperation or intentional acts of
                  noncompliance with City codes and regulations.
                        c.   Failure to provide timely and correct information as may be required by
                  City code enforcement officials in the performance of their duties;
                        d.   Failure to pay any required fee or costs that may be imposed with the
                  issue or renewal of said permit;
                        e.   Failure by Applicant or Licensee to provide the required information under
                  9-11-2 this chapter.
                        f.   Failure to execute any agreement or other documents as may be required for
                  purposes of approving the issuance or renewal of a permit.
                  Only the area of real property in which the City has a dedicated or acquired right-
                  of-way interest in the real property. It shall include the area on, below or above
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-  the present and future streets, alleys, avenues, roads, highways, parkways or
WAY:              boulevards dedicated or acquired as right-of-way. The term does not include the
                  airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to wireless telecommunications or other
                  non-wire telecommunications or broadcast service, easements obtained by utilities or
                  private easements in platted subdivisions or tracts.
                  A provider of telecommunications services in whole or in part, including both
                  regulated and unregulated services, such as the provision of intemet access, who owns
TELECOMMUNICATION fiber optic cable facilities or other communication facilities within the municipal
S SERVICE         limits. Said definition shall include its owners, subsidiaries, partners, agents,
PROVIDER:         representatives or assigns. For purposes of these provisions, a Telecommunications
                  Service Provider may be referred to as a "licensee." (Ord. 1267, 6-14-2022; amd. Ord.
                  1288, 4-11-2023)
 
9-12-2: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE PROVIDERS:
   A.   Verification of License: All telecommunications service providers
operating within the City of Seminole shall provide a copy of their current
federal and state license to operate within the State of Oklahoma. A valid FCC
license to operate as a telecommunications provider shall be required to
provide services within city limits.
   B.   Verification of Telecommunications Infrastructure: All
telecommunications service providers operating within the City of Seminole, who
own, lease or maintain any cable facilities or other communication facilities,
to include, but not limited to, fiber optic, wire or other above or below-
ground communication lines within the municipal limits shall provide the
nature, type and location of said equipment to the Office of Community
Development. (Ord. 1267, 6-14-2022; amd. Ord. 1288, 4-11-2023)
9-12-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any individual or entity to
install, construct, or replace any fiber optic line, equipment or other
infrastructure that utilize the easements and public rights-of-way without
obtaining a permit pursuant to the requirements of this chapter. This shall
specifically exclude and not apply to wireless services.
   B.   Additional Permits: The license requirement set forth in this chapter
shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other licensing and permitting
requirements imposed by any other federal, state or local law.
   C.   Licensing fees inapplicable. It is recogni7ed that municipal licensing
requirements have been preempted by state and federal law. Nothing herein shall
be construed to require a municipal license to operate or provide
telecommunications services within city limits, less and except what may be
applicable under an exclusive franchise agreement. (Ord. 1288, 4-11-2023)
9-12-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Permit Provisions: The general procedures and requirements of
permits, as more fully set forth in Title 9, Chapter 1, General License and
Permit Provisions, shall apply to permits issued under this chapter. To the
extent any conflict exists between the provisions of this chapter and Title 9
Chapter 1, the specific provisions of this chapter shall control. Nothing
herein shall relieve any telecommunications service provider from its
obligation to comply with any provisions within this Code related to applicable
telecommunication utility requirements.
   B.   Term: Permits issued pursuant to this chapter are valid through
December 31 from the date of issuance.
   C.   Fees. Applicants shall be assessed a permit fee to offset the City's
costs to review the plans and activity associated with the Applicant's project
within the easements and public rights-of-way. Said fees shall be reasonable
and commensurate with similar fee amounts established per the fee schedule of
the City.
   D.   Costs for review and inspection. Any Applicant or Licensee installing,
constructing or replacing fiber optic, cable or other or communications lines
shall pay a nonrefundable fee in an amount as provided for in the fee schedule
for the City to recover its costs incurred for plan review, verifying
engineering design, materials utilized, location and placement of equipment and
infrastructure and other costs associated with issuing, processing, and
verifying applications, inspecting job sites, and restoration improvements, and
other costs the City may incur in the course of said tasks.
   E.   Denial of Permit. An Applicant for an initial permit or existing permit
seeking renewal may be denied issuance of said permit by the City Manager upon
a showing of good cause. A denial may be appealed to the City Council who shall
hold a hearing on the matter within thirty (30) days. Said time limits may be
waived by mutual agreement.
   F.   Revocation. Nothing shall prohibit the City Manager or his authorized
designee from revoking the permit of any Applicant or Licensee without notice
upon a showing of irreparable harm to the public health, safety or welfare. In
the event said permit is revoked, a hearing shall be held within three (3)
business days before the City Manager. Any adverse decision may be appealed to
the City Council, who shall hold a hearing on the matter within thirty (30)
days. Said time limits may be waived by mutual agreement. (Ord. 1267, 6-14-
2022; amd. Ord. 1288, 4-11-2023)
9-12-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, entity or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter, as it exists or may be amended, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor be punished as provided in section 11-8 of this Code. Each
continuing day's violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalties
provided herein shall not preclude the City from initiating administrative or
civil action to enjoin the violation. The City retains all legal rights and
remedies available to it pursuant to local, state and federal law. (Ord. 1267,
6-14-2022; amd. Ord. 1288, 4-11-2023)
TITLE 10
OFFENSES AND CRIMES
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES IN GENERAL; PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Attempts To Commit An Offense
10-1-2: Aiding In An Offense
10-1-3: Offenses Include Aiding, Permitting
10-1-4: General Offense, State Law
10-1-5: Penalty
10-1-1: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself. (2000 Code § 10-101)
10-1-2: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (2000
Code § 10-102)
10-1-3: OFFENSES INCLUDE AIDING, PERMITTING:
   Whenever in this code any act or omission is made unlawful, it includes
causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing the
fact of such act or omission. (2000 Code § 10-103)
10-1-4: GENERAL OFFENSE, STATE LAW:
   It is unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as such laws
are enforceable by the city government. (2000 Code § 10-104)
10-1-5: PENALTY:
   Any violation of the provisions of this title is punishable by fine or
imprisonment as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 10-701)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
10-2-1: Petit Larceny
10-2-2: Injuring Automobiles And Other Vehicles
10-2-3: Malicious Injury To Property
10-2-4: Placing Signs On Property Of Another
10-2-5: Defacing Public Buildings
10-2-6: Throwing Or Shooting At Persons Or Property
10-2-7: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
10-2-8: Illegal Entrance
10-2-9: Throwing Advertising On Street
10-2-10: Throwing Injurious Substances
10-2-11: Injury To Plants And Trees
10-2-12: Public Streets And Trees
10-2-13: Trespass Prohibited
10-2-14: Parking On Property Of Another
10-2-15: Interference With Fire Hydrants
10-2-16: Lug Wheels Or Tracks Unlawful
10-2-17: Certain Vehicles Prohibited In Residential Areas
10-2-1: PETIT LARCENY:
   A.   Definition: "Petit larceny" is the taking of personal property of value
not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth
and with intent to deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking
of such property from the "person" of another. (2000 Code § 10-201; amd. Ord.
1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Unlawful Act: Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits
petit larceny shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (2000 Code § 10-201)
10-2-2: INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES:
   It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter, occupy, or loiter in any automobile or other vehicle belonging to
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (2000
Code § 10-202)
10-2-3: MALICIOUS INJURY TO PROPERTY:
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (2000 Code § 10-203)
10-2-4: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill, placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building,
fence, sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other
property of another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof. (2000 Code § 10-204)
10-2-5: DEFACING PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
   It is unlawful for any person to break, mark, cut or throw at or otherwise
deface any building, awning, fence or any improvements on any property within
the city, or to remove or lay down anything connected with any building or
structure, or to daub any paint, mud, filth, tar, oil or grease on any building
or any part thereof, or any fence enclosing any lot or parcel of ground owned
or occupied by another within the city. (2000 Code § 10-205)
10-2-6: THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY:
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot any stone
or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light or other
property of another (whether public or private), except in case where such is
done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property. (2000 Code § 10-
206)
10-2-7: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water, electricity or cable and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly
or privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him to consume or use the
gas, water, electricity or cable without it passing through the meter or any
other way so as to evade payment therefor, or to turn on or use any gas, water,
telephone, telegraph, cable or electricity without having made application and
deposit therefor with the utility or a city. It is also unlawful for any person
to damage, molest, alter, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter,
or other part of any public utility, including any telegraph, telephone or
cable system. (2000 Code § 10-207)
10-2-8: ILLEGAL ENTRANCE:
   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into
an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure
is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or
otherwise or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in the line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. (2000
Code § 10-208)
10-2-9: THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET:
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter. (2000 Code § 10-209)
10-2-10: THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES:
   It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw
upon the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive
or other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine,
with intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal. (2000 Code §
10-210)
10-2-11: INJURY TO PLANTS AND TREES:
   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and without authority cut, pull,
pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the city, or wilfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or wilfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground.
(2000 Code § 10-211)
10-2-12: PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the city.
      2.   Attach any guywires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree.
      3.   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the city.
      4.   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the city; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein. (2000 Code § 10-212)
      5.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the community services department so to do.
   B.   City Supervision Required: Any such digging, removing, or driveway
connection shall be done under the supervision of the street superintendent.
(2000 Code § 10-212; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
10-2-13: TRESPASS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
be defined as follows:
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
   TRESPASS: Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the implied
consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. "Trespass" shall
also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in lawful
possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or the
agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of the
premises. "Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer; provided,
that the provisions of this sentence shall not apply to persons, including
employees, whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or by a
person in lawful possession of such premises; nor shall the provisions of this
sentence apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such
premises. "Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of returning to private
property before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next
business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms
of this definition.
   B.   Unlawful Act; Exception: It is unlawful for any person to trespass on
private or public property. It shall not be unlawful to use or be on public
property for the purpose to which the public property is devoted during the
hours designated for such use or presence. If the time and use of public
property is restricted, there shall be posted on the property, where plainly
visible, a sign fixing the hours for use. (2000 Code § 10-213)
10-2-14: PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof, or when necessary in the performance of a duty, or otherwise by
authority of law or ordinance. (2000 Code § 10-214)
10-2-15: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Turning On Or Off; Interference: It is unlawful for any person except
one duly authorized by the city utility superintendent or a member of the fire
department to open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to,
or connect anything with, any fire hydrant or stop cock belonging to the city.
   B.   Obstructing Access: It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to
any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other
thing, or in any other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant. (2000 Code
§ 10-215)
10-2-16: LUG WHEELS OR TRACKS UNLAWFUL:
   It is unlawful for tractors with wheels or tracks injurious to pavement to
be permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
first planks such streets. (2000 Code § 10-216; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff.
4-10-2008)
10-2-17: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
   A.   Definition: The term "residential street", for the purposes of this
section, shall mean any street within a platted subdivision of the city which
is zoned R1-Z (single-family zero lot line residential district), R-1 (one-
family dwelling district), R-2 (two-family dwelling district), R-3 (multiple-
family dwelling district), or R-4 (townhouse dwelling district). (Ord. 972, 6-
8-2004; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Overweight Vehicles Prohibited; Exceptions: Vehicles in excess of two
(2) axles, having a GVW rating in excess of twenty six thousand one (26,001)
pounds, are prohibited from entering upon the residential streets of the city.
Exceptions are: utility vehicles (electric, sanitation, etc.), city maintenance
vehicles, contractors hired by the city, construction material delivery
vehicles, emergency vehicles, and moving vans. (Ord. 972, 6-8-2004)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
SECTION:
10-3-1: Disturbing The Peace
10-3-2: Dispersal Of Unlawful Assemblies
10-3-3: Insulting Signs, Literature Or Language
10-3-4: Fireworks Use And Sale Regulated
10-3-5: Storing Or Keeping Explosives
10-3-6: Weapons And Firearms
10-3-7: Loud Noise Or Music Prohibited, Amplified Sound
10-3-8: Abandoned Refrigerators
10-3-9: Electric Fences
10-3-10: Avoiding Admission Fee
10-3-11: Certain Games Of Skill Or Chance Prohibited
10-3-12: Criminal Street Gang Activity
10-3-13: Jake Brakes Prohibited
10-3-14: Secondhand Dealers And Pawnbrokers
10-3-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Disturbing The Peace Unlawful: It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the
peace of another or others by doing any of the acts set out in subsection B of
this section. (2000 Code § 10-301)
   B.   Prohibited Acts: Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the
following in such a manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of
another or others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct.
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition.
      3.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby.
      4.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise.
      5.   Holding an unlawful assembly of two (2) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously.
      6.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by rude,
by profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within
the place of assembly or within hearing distance thereof.
      7.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises.
      8.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof.
      9.   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably disturb
or alarm the public. (2000 Code § 10-301; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-
2008)
10-3-2: DISPERSAL OF UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
   It is unlawful for two (2) or more persons, assembled together for the
purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing any unlawful
act, not to disperse upon the command of an officer to do so. (2000 Code § 10-
302)
10-3-3: INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   Insulting Sign Or Device: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation within the City to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device,
which in its common acceptance is insulting, profane, or abusive to the
citizens of the City, and which is calculated, or of which the natural
consequence is, to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
   B.   Violent Or Abusive Language Or Literature: It is unlawful for any
person to wilfully use, utter, publish, circulate or distribute any profane,
violent, abusive, or insulting language or literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (2000 Code § 10-303)
10-3-4: FIREWORKS USE AND SALE REGULATED:
   A.   Definition: The word "fireworks", as used in this section, shall be as
defined in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1622. (2000 Code § 10-304)
   B.   Sale Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to sell or offer for sale or to keep in storage in any retail establishment or
warehouse for sale at retail, any firecrackers, rockets, torpedoes, Roman
candles or any other fireworks or substances designed or intended for
pyrotechnic display at any place within the city limits, except as provided in
title 9, chapter 10 of this code. (Ord. 979, 10-12-2004)
   C.   Sale At Wholesale; Permit Requirements: The storage or sale of
fireworks at wholesale is prohibited except by permit issued by the mayor for a
period of one year. Application for such permit must be filed with the fire
department chief at least three (3) days prior to the issuance of the permit
and must give a detailed description of the proposed care and storage of the
material, and of structural conditions and occupancies of the building to be
used therefor.
   D.   Discharge And Display Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person to
shoot, fire or explode any firecracker, rocket, Roman candle or other species
of fireworks within the boundaries of the city except by specific order of the
mayor allowing properly qualified individuals; provided, also, that such
display or displays shall be of such character, and so located, discharged or
fired, as in the opinion of the chief of the fire department shall not be
hazardous to the surrounding property or endanger any persons. (2000 Code § 10-
304; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
10-3-5: STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES:
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the city any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance, except that gunpowder may be kept in quantities of not to exceed
five (5) pounds where the same is securely kept. (2000 Code § 10-305)
10-3-6: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS:
   A.   Carrying Offensive Weapons: It is unlawful for any person to carry in
hand or otherwise convey any air rifle, BB or pellet gun, slingshot, any
offensive weapon of any kind, or any device capable of projecting any object
which could do injury to person or property, in plain view or otherwise, on any
street, highway, or public place where such action could be considered
threatening or harmful to another, unless authorized by law or ordinance. (2000
Code § 10-306)
   B.   Reckless Conduct: It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless
conduct while having in his possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such
actions consisting of creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability
of death or great bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a conscious
disregard for the safety of another person. (2000 Code § 10-307)
   C.   Discharging Firearms Prohibited; Exceptions:
      1.   "Firearms" means any instrument used in the propulsion of shot,
shells or bullets or other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded
within it, or by the action of compressed air within it, or by the power of
springs and including what are commonly known as air rifles and BB guns.
      2.   No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the city except
when doing so in the line of duty, by a law enforcement officer, when lawfully
doing so in defense of oneself, of another person, or of property, or when
otherwise authorized by law or ordinance. (2000 Code § 10-308)
10-3-7: LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED, AMPLIFIED SOUND:
   A.   Disturbing The Peace; Definitions: It is unlawful for any person to
disturb the peace and quietude of any part of the city by operating, having
operated, or permitting to be operated, any contrivance, whether electric or
not, with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music,
noise or words. No person owning, renting or otherwise occupying a residence
within the city shall operate or permit the operation of any sound
amplification system at the residence so that the sound is plainly audible at a
distance of one hundred feet (100') from the residence.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Any sound produced by a sound amplification system at the
residence which clearly can be heard at a distance of one hundred feet (100').
Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses, based upon direct line
of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and bass reverberations are
included.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM: Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
loudspeaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of the human
voice, music, or noise.
   B.   Excessive Noise On Streets, Parking Lots: It is unlawful to play,
operate or use any device known as a sound truck, loudspeaker or sound
amplifier, radio or phonograph with loudspeaker with sound amplifier or any
instrument of any kind or character which emits loud or raucous noises on a
street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway. No person operating or
occupying a vehicle on a street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway shall
operate or permit the operation of any sound amplification system from within
the vehicle so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of one hundred
feet (100') from the vehicle.
   C.   Affirmative Defense: It is an affirmative defense to a charge under
this section that the person or persons occupying the residence or operating
the vehicle or not otherwise prohibited by law from operating the sound
amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
      1.   The system was being operated to request medical assistance.
      2.   The sound amplification was part of authorized public activities
which had been approved by the city council and/or the city manager. (Ord. 935,
12-14-2000)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provisions of this section, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine pursuant to section 1-1-8 of
this code. (Ord. 935, 12-14-2000; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
10-3-8: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS:
   It is unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, structure or dwelling under his control, in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other
container which has a door or lid, snap lock or other locking device which may
not be released from the inside, without first removing the door or lid, snap
lock or other locking device. (2000 Code § 10-310)
10-3-9: ELECTRIC FENCES:
   It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric fence of
more than six (6) volts as a guard to any parking lot or parcel of land. (2000
Code § 10-311)
10-3-10: AVOIDING ADMISSION FEE:
   It is unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment of the
proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other place
where admission fees are charged. However, nothing contained herein shall be
deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police officers or fire
department officials engaged in the performance of official duties to any place
of public entertainment or amusement. (2000 Code § 10-312)
10-3-11: CERTAIN GAMES OF SKILL OR CHANCE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition Of Concession: As used in this section, "concession" means
any game or concession open to the public and operated for profit in which the
patron pays a fee for participating and may receive a prize upon a later
happening.
   B.   Illegal Operation Of Concession: Every person who owns or operates any
concession, and who fraudulently obtains money from another by means of any
hidden mechanical device or obstruction with intent to diminish the chance of
any patron to win a prize, or by any other fraudulent means, shall be punished
as in the case of theft of property of like value.
   C.   Sale Of Illegal Mechanical Device Or Obstruction: Any person who
manufactures or sells any mechanical device or obstruction for a concession
which he knows or reasonably should know will be fraudulently used to diminish
the chance of any patron to win a prize is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Razzledazzle: Any person who owns or operates any game, at a fair or
carnival, of a type known as razzledazzle is guilty of a misdemeanor. As used
in this section, "razzledazzle" means a series of games of skill or chance in
which the player pays money or other valuable consideration in return for each
opportunity to make successive attempts to obtain points by the use of dice,
darts, marbles or other implements, and where such points are accumulated in
successive games by the player toward a total number of points, determined by
the operator, which is required for the player to win a prize or other valuable
consideration.
   E.   Each Operation A Separate Offense: Each operation of any concession or
razzledazzle game shall be a separate and distinct offense. An "operation" of
such concession or razzledazzle is an act in which a patron pays the operator
of the concession or razzledazzle game money or its equivalent for the right
for an opportunity to win a prize. (2000 Code § 10-313)
10-3-12: CRIMINAL STREET GANG ACTIVITY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall be defined as follows:
   CRIMINAL STREET GANG: Any ongoing organization, association, or group of
five (5) or more persons that specifically either promotes, sponsors, or
assists in, or participates in, and requires as a condition of membership or
continued membership, the commission any criminal acts.
   ENCOURAGE: As used herein, in addition to the usual meaning of the word,
shall include a wilful and intentional neglect to do that which will directly
tend to prevent such act or acts of delinquency on the part of such minor, when
the person accused shall have been able to do so.
   EVERY PERSON: As used herein, shall include human beings, without regard to
their legal or natural relationship to such minor, as well as legal or
corporate entities.
   MINOR OR CHILD: As used herein, shall include male or female persons who
shall not have arrived at the age of eighteen (18) years at the time of the
commission of the offense.
   B.   Display Of Hand Signs Or Signals: It is unlawful for any person to
publicly use or display hand signs or signals, commonly known as "gang signs"
or "placas" with the intent to threaten, disturb, or alarm another person, or
with the intent to invite, cause, aid, abet, or encourage violent or fistic
encounters.
   C.   Unlawful Assemblage: It is unlawful for two (2) or more persons to be
assembled together with the intent to engage in activity described and made
unlawful herein.
   D.   Encouraging Minor To Commit Offense: Every person eighteen (18) years
of age or older who shall knowingly or willingly cause, aid, abet, or encourage
a minor to commit or participate in committing an act which would violate this
section if committed by an adult shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of
encouraging criminal street gang activity, and said offense shall be punishable
by the maximum penalty allowed for conviction of the offense or offenses which
the person caused, aided, abetted, or encouraged the minor to commit or
participate in committing.
   E.   Recruiting Minor Into Street Gang: Every person who shall knowingly or
wilfully cause, aid, abet, encourage, solicit or recruit a minor to
participate, join, or associate with any "criminal street gang", as defined in
subsection A of this section, or any gang member for the purpose of committing
any criminal act shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a crime
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   F.   Second Or Subsequent Violations; Penalty: Every person convicted of a
second or subsequent violation of this section shall be guilty of a crime
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   G.   Offenses Involving Controlled Substances: Every person who shall
knowingly, intentionally, or wilfully cause, aid, abet or encourage a minor
child to: 1) distribute, dispense, possess, or manufacture a controlled
dangerous substance, as provided in the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substance
Act 1 ; 2) create, distribute, or possess a counterfeit controlled dangerous
substance, as defined in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101; 3) distribute any
imitation controlled substance, as defined in 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-
101; 4) conspire or participate in any scheme, plan or act for the purposes of
avoiding, eluding, or evading arrest or detection by law enforcement
authorities for crimes involving controlled substances as defined in 63
Oklahoma Statutes section 2-101; or 5) violate any penal provisions of the
Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, shall be guilty of a crime
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days, or by both said fine and
imprisonment.
   H.   Parental Responsibility: Any custodial parent or guardian of a child
under eighteen (18) years of age, whose child commits, or participates in
committing, an act that would be a violation of this section if committed by an
adult shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a crime punishable by the
maximum penalty allowed for conviction of the offense or offenses which the
said child committed, or participated in committing. (Ord. 935, 12-14-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 2-101 et seq.
10-3-13: JAKE BRAKES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: The term "emergency situation", for the purposes of this
section, shall mean one in which there is imminent danger of collision with
persons, property or animals.
   B.   Prohibited Act: It shall be unlawful for any driver of a truck or truck
tractor to activate or use the unit's "jake brake" within the City limits
except in an emergency situation. (Ord. 973, 6-8-2004)
10-3-14: SECONDHAND DEALERS AND PAWNBROKERS:
   A.   Definition:
   SECONDHAND DEALER/PAWNBROKER: Any person operating a business in the City,
who purchases and/or sells goods of any kind or description, having once been
used or transferred from the manufacturer to the dealer and then received into
the possession of third parties whether the same consists of iron or other
metals, electronics, firearms, jewelry, tools, lawn equipment, items with
vehicle identification numbers or serial numbers, or items made in whole or
part of gold, silver, or precious metals or gemstones including bullion or
coins shall be a secondhand dealer/pawnbroker.
   B.   Exceptions: The following shall be excepted from the requirements set
forth herein:
      1.   Garage sales and flea markets;
      2.   Businesses that market and sell only clothing or furniture;
      3.   Non-profit or charitable organizations that accept donated items for
redistribution or resale.
   C.   Regulatory Requirement:
      1.   Every secondhand dealer/pawnbroker shall keep, at his place of
business, a register in which he shall enter, in writing, the following:
         a.   The name and address of the secondhand dealer/pawnbroker to
include employee ID number or full name that conducted the transaction;
         b.   The name, address, race, sex, weight, height, date of birth and
either identification number of the seller as verified by either a State-issued
identification card, driver's license, Federal government-issued identification
card, tribal ID card or by readable fingerprint of right or left index finger
on the back of the transaction copy to be retained for the secondhand dealer/
pawnbroker's record;
         c.   The date and time of the transaction;
         d.   The manufacturer of the item;
         e.   The description of the item; and
         f.   The serial number and model number where available and any other
identifying markings.
      2.   The register shall be kept clean and legible and the entries shall
be made at the time of receipt or purchase of property.
      3.   Secondhand dealer/pawnbroker must keep original copies of all
transactions for at least two (2) years.
      4.   The secondhand dealer/pawnbroker shall transmit electronically, via
LEADS online, a copy of all transactions within three (3) days of any pawn or
purchase.
      5.   Items bought, except on invoice from a manufacturer or wholesaler
with an established place of business, shall be held for ten (10) days before
being disposed of or sold.
      6.   All secondhand dealers/pawnbrokers who buy/sell firearms must be
current Federal firearms licensees and follow all Federal firearms laws
regarding the records of firearm disposition.
      7.   All pawnshops must be licensed by the State of Oklahoma.
      8.   All secondhand dealers/pawnbrokers must make any and all registers
and firearm disposition records available to the Seminole Police Department or
any other law enforcement agency for inspection.
      9.   Non-compliance with this section shall be considered a misdemeanor
and punishable under title 1 of this Code. Each day of non-compliance shall be
considered a continuing offense and punishable as such. (Ord. 1206, 8-8-2017)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Public Intoxication And Drinking Prohibited
10-4-2: Possession Or Sale Of Alcoholic Beverages
10-4-3: Marijuana Prohibited
10-4-4: Drug Paraphernalia
10-4-5: Prostitution
10-4-6: Disorderly Houses
10-4-7: Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
10-4-8: Definitions, Obscenity Regulations
10-4-9: Prohibited Obscene Conduct
10-4-10: Vagrancy Defined For Specific Acts
10-4-11: Sleeping On Streets, Public Or Private Property
10-4-12: Begging
10-4-13: Gambling
10-4-14: Harmful Deception
10-4-15: Swindling
10-4-16: False Pretenses
10-4-17: Encouraging Delinquency
10-4-18: Smoking And Tobacco Use In Public Places And Indoor Workplaces
10-4-19: Social Host/Social Hosting
10-4-1: PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, a "state of intoxication"
means the condition in which a person is under the influence of any
intoxicating, spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, or low point beer, or of any
narcotic, to such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full physical
or mental power. (2000 Code § 10-401; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-
2008)
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or
in any street, alley, or other public place in the city in a state of
intoxication. It is unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating liquor or low
point beer upon or in any street, alley, or other public place within the city
except as specified by resolution approved by the city council. It is unlawful
to use, sell or furnish to another any illegal drug or narcotic in any place in
the city except as legally prescribed by a physician. (Ord. 1019, 2-14-2006;
amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
10-4-2: POSSESSION OR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Possession Or Transportation:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
to be in possession of any alcoholic beverage or low point beer while such
person is upon any public street, road or highway or in any public place within
the city limits, or to have in possession or under control any alcoholic
beverage or low point beer except as provided by law.
      2.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to be in possession of any low point beer, except that
such a person gaining possession of the beverage from his parent is exempt from
this subsection.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any alcoholic beverage or low
point beer except in the original container which shall not have been opened
and from which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed unless the
opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear trunk or
compartment shall include the spare tire compartment in a station wagon or
panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver or
any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
      4.   It is unlawful to consume or to carry alcoholic beverages or low
point beer while upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, public ways and parking
lots within the city limits, including consumption or carrying of such
beverages while in a vehicle, unless the original container shall not have been
opened, and the seal upon the original container has not been broken, and the
original cap or cork shall not have been removed. Excepted from this subsection
are persons who have been given permission by the owner of a private parking
lot within the city limits to consume or to carry the beverages on his
property.
      5.   For the purpose of this subsection, alcoholic beverage and low point
beer shall be as defined by 37 Oklahoma Statutes. (2000 Code § 10-402; amd.
Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Intoxicating Liquor And Low Point Beer: It is unlawful:
      1.   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any alcoholic beverage or low point beer of any kind except as
permitted by law;
      2.   To have in possession or under control any alcoholic beverage or low
point beer except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey
from place to place in the city any alcoholic beverage or low point beer except
as permitted by law;
      3.   To loiter in a place where alcoholic beverages or low point beer are
sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
      4.   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where alcoholic beverages or low point beer are sold, bartered, given away or
otherwise furnished in violation of law. (2000 Code § 10-403; amd. Ord. 1074,
3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
10-4-3: MARIJUANA PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "marijuana" means all
parts of the plant cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or resin but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced
from such stalks, oil or cake made from the derivative, mixture or preparation
of such mature stalks (except resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake,
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place while under the influence of marijuana;
      2.   To use, have, or possess marijuana upon or in any street, alley,
place of business, or other public place within the city;
      3.   To use marijuana in any place within the city except as legally
prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the state;
      4.   To loiter about a place where marijuana is sold or furnished
illegally; or
      5.   To sell or furnish illegally to another person marijuana, unless the
marijuana was determined directly or pursuant to a valid prescription or order
from a practitioner as defined by state law, 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 2-
101. (2000 Code § 10-404)
10-4-4: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definition; Items And Devices Included: For the purpose of this
section, drug paraphernalia means all equipment, products and materials of any
kind which are to be used or intended for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body, a controlled dangerous substance in violation
of this section. It includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits used or intended for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing or harvesting or any species of plant which is a controlled dangerous
substance or from which a controlled dangerous substance can be derived.
      2.   Kits used or intended for use in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled dangerous substances.
      3.   Isomerization devices used or intended for use in increasing the
potency of any species of plant which is a controlled dangerous substance.
      4.   Testing equipment used or intended for use in identifying, or in
analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled dangerous
substances.
      5.   Scales and balances used or intended for use in weighing or
measuring controlled dangerous substances.
      6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used or intended for use in cutting controlled
dangerous substances.
      7.   Separation gins and sifters used or intended for use in removing
twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining marijuana.
      8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used or
intended for use in compounding controlled dangerous substances.
      9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used or intended
for use in packaging small quantities of controlled dangerous substances.
      10.   Containers and other objects used or intended for use in
parenterally injecting controlled dangerous substances into the human body.
      11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used or intended for
use in parenterally injecting controlled dangerous substances into the human
body.
      12.   Objects used or intended for use in ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human
body, such as:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         h.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes;
         j.   Air driven pipes;
         k.   Chillums;
         l.   Bongs; or
         m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
   Provided however, "drug paraphernalia" shall not include separation gins
intended for use in preparing tea or spice, clamps commonly used for
constructing electrical equipment, water pipes designated for ornamentation or
pipes designed for smoking tobacco.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: No person shall deliver, possess or manufacture drug
paraphernalia, knowing or under circumstances in which it will be used to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled, dangerous substance in violation of this section. (2000 Code § 10-
405)
10-4-5: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
   LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
   PROSTITUTION: The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
   SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES: The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing,
or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Be a prostitute;
      2.   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      3.   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      4.   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      5.   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution;
      6.   Accept or receive the proceeds of any act; or
      7.   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of prostitution
in the limits of city. (2000 Code § 10-406)
10-4-6: DISORDERLY HOUSES:
   A.   Definition; Activities Described: A "disorderly house" means any
structure or vehicle by which the peace, comfort, health, welfare or decency of
the public is disturbed by reason of the people therein committing or resorting
to any of the following acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of the city or statutes of
the state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than one- half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume;
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or city ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any state statute or city ordinance prohibiting
gambling. (2000 Code § 10-407)
   B.   Maintaining Or Leasing Disorderly House:
      1.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping
and maintaining a disorderly house.
      2.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house. No person, partnership or corporation shall continue to
grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house. (2000 Code §
10-408)
   C.   Residents And Visitors To Disorderly House: No person shall knowingly
reside in, enter into, or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for
violation of this subsection, the city shall have the burden to prove such
knowledge by direct evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This
subsection shall not apply to physicians or officers in the discharge of their
professional or official duties. (2000 Code § 10-409)
10-4-7: NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity.
   B.   Appear in any public place in the city in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress.
   C.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person. (2000 Code § 10-
410)
10-4-8: DEFINITIONS, OBSCENITY REGULATIONS:
   The following terms when used in this chapter shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
   DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
   MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material
or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation; or any statue or other figure; or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction; or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state.
   OBSCENE: Means that to the average person applying contemporary community
standards:
   A.   The predominant appeal of the matter, taken as a whole, is to prurient
interest; i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity, or
excretion;
   B.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner sexual
conduct regulated by Oklahoma Statutes title 21; and
   C.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
   SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including, but not limited to,
hosting, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining. (2000 Code § 10-4111; amd.
Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
10-4-9: PROHIBITED OBSCENE CONDUCT:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Knowingly disseminate, distribute or make available to a minor
obscene material.
      2.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts to
a minor that promotes such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient
appeal.
      3.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to a minor.
      4.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to view of
a minor:
         a.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
         b.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
         c.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
or
         d.   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
   B.   Each Display Separate Offense; Exceptions: Each complete or partial
display or other material exhibition of any motion picture film or other
material shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense. The provisions of
sections 10-4-8 and
10-4-9 of this chapter shall not apply to a projectionist, assistant
projectionist, usher or cashier, provided such person has no financial interest
in the motion picture theater so long as that person is not acting as director
or manager of the theater. (2000 Code § 10-412)
10-4-10: VAGRANCY DEFINED FOR SPECIFIC ACTS:
   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the city. For the purposes
of this section, a "vagrant" means any person who loiters or remains in or
wanders about a public or private place for any of the following purposes:
   A.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
   B.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting prostitution
or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
   C.   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
   D.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
   E.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
   F.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms; provided, that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
   G.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband. (2000
Code § 10-413)
10-4-11: SLEEPING ON STREETS, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   It is unlawful for any person to sleep on any street, in any other public
place, or on any property of another without the express or tacit consent of
the owner or person in charge of such place. (2000 Code § 10-414; amd. Ord.
1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
10-4-12: BEGGING:
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (2000 Code § 10-415)
10-4-13: GAMBLING:
   A.   Gambling Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
         a.   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on
or conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
         b.   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
         c.   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
         d.   To knowingly permit his or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
      2.   It is unlawful and an offense against the city for any person to
play any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein
the element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks
or any other representatives of value. (2000 Code § 10-416)
   B.   Loitering Near Gambling Place: It is unlawful for any person to loiter
about in the immediate vicinity where a person or persons are gambling, whether
by playing games, operating a slot machine or other device, or otherwise. (2000
Code § 10-417)
10-4-14: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(2000 Code § 10-418)
10-4-15: SWINDLING:
   It is unlawful for any person, who by color or aid of any trick or sleight
of hand performance or by fraud or by fraudulent scheme, cards, dice, or
device, to win for himself or for another any money or property or a
representative of either. (2000 Code § 10-420)
10-4-16: FALSE PRETENSES:
   It is unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares or
merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any public place and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he received the
food, goods, wares or merchandise. (2000 Code § 10-421)
10-4-17: ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY:
   It is unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage, or cause
a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities. It is likewise
unlawful for any person, after notice that the driver's license of any child
has been suspended or revoked, to permit such child to operate a motor vehicle
during the period that his driver's license is suspended. (2000 Code § 10-422)
10-4-18: SMOKING AND TOBACCO USE IN PUBLIC PLACES AND INDOOR WORKPLACES:
   A.   It is the intent of the city council in enacting this section to
provide for the public health, safety and welfare by discouraging the
inherently dangerous behavior of tobacco product and vapor product use around
non-users, especially children; by protecting the public from exposure to
secondhand smoke where people work, play, and learn; by reducing the potential
for children to wrongly associate tobacco product and vapor product use with a
healthy lifestyle; and by affirming and promoting a healthy environment in the
city.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
                                     Any indoor place of employment or
                                     employment type service for or at the
                                     request of another individual or
                                     individuals, or any public or private
                                     entity, whether part time or full time
                                     and whether for compensation or not.
                                     Such services shall include, without
                                     limitation, any service performed by an
                                     owner, employee, independent contractor,
                                     agent, partner, proprietor, manager,
                                     officer, director, apprentice, trainee,
                                     associate, servant or volunteer. An
INDOOR WORKPLACE:                    indoor workplace includes work areas,
                                     employee lounges, restrooms, conference
                                     rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias,
                                     hallways, any other spaces used or
                                     visited by employees, and all space
                                     between a floor and ceiling that is
                                     predominantly or totally enclosed by
                                     walls or windows, regardless of doors,
                                     doorways, open or closed windows,
                                     stairways, or the like. The provisions
                                     of this section shall apply to such
                                     indoor workplace at any given time,
                                     whether or not work is being performed.
                                     All buildings, indoor areas, and outdoor
                                     areas, including but not limited to
                                     recreational areas, and other property,
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY:                  or portions thereof, owned or operated
                                     by the city, including but not limited
                                     to vehicles and equipment owned by the
                                     municipality.
                                     Any covered area, partially covered area
OUTDOOR AREA:                        or area open to the sky that is on a
                                     property owned by the city.
                                     Any enclosed indoor area where
                                     individuals other than employees are
PUBLIC PLACE:                        invited or permitted; the term is
                                     synonymous with the phrase "any indoor
                                     place used by or open to the public".
                                     Any area that is owned, controlled or
                                     used by the city of Seminole and open to
                                     the general public for recreational
                                     purposes, regardless of any fee or age
                                     requirement. The term "recreational
RECREATIONAL AREA:                   area" includes, but is not limited to,
                                     parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, sports
                                     fields, golf courses, walking paths,
                                     gardens, hiking trails, bike paths,
                                     riding trails, swimming pools, roller
                                     and ice skating rinks, beaches
                                     surrounding lakes, and skateboard parks.
RESTAURANT:                          Any eating establishment regardless of
                                     seating capacity.
                                     The carrying by a person of a lighted
SMOKING:                             cigar, cigarette, pipe or other lighted
                                     smoking device.
                                     An establishment that derives more than
                                     sixty percent (60%) of its gross
                                     receipts, subject to verification by
                                     competent authority, from the sale of
                                     alcoholic beverages and low point beer
                                     and no person under twenty one (21)
STAND ALONE BAR, STAND ALONE TAVERN, years of age is admitted, except for
AND CIGAR BAR:                       members of a musical band employed or
                                     hired as provided in 37 Oklahoma
                                     Statutes section 537, subsection B,
                                     paragraph 2 and that is not located
                                     within, and does not share any common
                                     entryway or common indoor area with, any
                                     other enclosed indoor workplace,
                                     including a restaurant.
                                     Any substance containing tobacco leaf,
                                     including, but not limited to,
                                     cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, hookah
                                     tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, dipping
                                     tobacco, snus, bidis, or any other
                                     preparation of tobacco; and any product
                                     or formulation of matter containing
                                     biologically active amounts of nicotine
TOBACCO PRODUCT:                     that is manufactured, sold, offered for
                                     sale, or otherwise distributed with the
                                     expectation that the product or matter
                                     will be introduced into the human body.
                                     "Tobacco product" does not include any
                                     cessation product specifically approved
                                     by the United States food and drug
                                     administration for use in treating
                                     nicotine or tobacco dependence.
                                     Any noncombustible product, that may or
                                     may not contain nicotine, that employs a
                                     mechanical heating element, battery,
                                     electronic circuit, or other mechanism,
                                     regardless of shape or size, that can be
                                     used to produce a vapor in a solution or
                                     other form. Vapor Product shall include
                                     any vapor cartridge or other container
                                     with or without nicotine or other form
VAPOR PRODUCT:                       that is intended to be used with an
                                     electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
                                     electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe,
                                     or similar product or device and any
                                     vapor cartridge or other container of a
                                     solution, that may or may not contain
                                     nicotine, that is intended to be used
                                     with or in an electronic cigarette,
                                     electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
                                     electronic device.
 
   C.   Possession Of Lighted Tobacco Products, Smokeless Tobacco, Chewing
Tobacco/Snuff And Vapor Product In Certain Places Prohibited:
      1.   Nuisance: The possession of lighted tobacco in any form is a public
nuisance and dangerous to public health and is hereby prohibited when such
possession is in any indoor place used by or open to the public, public
transportation, or any indoor workplace except where specifically allowed by
law.
      2.   City Property Tobacco Free: All buildings and other properties,
including indoor and outdoor areas, owned or operated by the city of Seminole,
shall be entirely tobacco free to include all forms of tobacco products
including vapor products.
      3.   Recreational Areas: All indoor and outdoor recreational areas owned
or operated by the city shall be entirely tobacco free to include all forms of
tobacco products including vapor products.
      4.   Hospitals, Clinics And Medical Facilities: All hospitals, clinics,
medical facilities and other places where persons are treated or provided
services for illness, disease or injury shall be designated as nonsmoking. In
addition to buildings, the owner, operator or administrator of said facilities
may designate all or part of outdoor property as nonsmoking. Nothing shall
prohibit the owner, operator or administrator of said facilities to designate
an outside smoking area provided said area does not jeopardize the health,
safety and welfare of the patients or clientele.
   D.   Exemptions: The restrictions provided in subsection C. of this section
shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Stand alone bars, stand alone taverns and cigar bars;
      2.   The room or rooms where licensed charitable bingo games are being
operated, but only during the hours of operation of such games;
      3.   Up to twenty five percent (25%) of the guestrooms at a hotel or
other lodging establishment;
      4.   Retail tobacco stores predominantly engaged in the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental and in which no food or beverage is sold or served for consumption
on the premises;
      5.   Workplaces where only the owner or operator of the workplace, or the
immediate family of the owner or operator, performs any work in the workplace,
and the workplace has only incidental public access. "Incidental public access"
means that a place of business has only an occasional person, who is not an
employee, present at the business to transact business or make a delivery. It
does not include businesses that depend on walk-in customers for any part of
their business;
      6.   Workplaces occupied exclusively by one or more smokers, if the
workplace has only incidental public access;
      7.   Private offices occupied exclusively by one or more smokers;
      8.   Private residences and workplaces within private residences, except
that smoking shall not be allowed inside any private residence that is used as
a licensed childcare facility during hours of operation;
      9.   Medical research or treatment centers, if smoking is integral to the
research or treatment;
      10.   A facility operated by a post or organization of past or present
members of the armed forces of the United States which is exempt from taxation
pursuant to section 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19) of the internal revenue
code, 26 USC section 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19), when such facility is
utilized exclusively by its members and their families and for the conduct of
post or organization nonprofit operations except during an event or activity
which is open to the public; and
      11.   Any outdoor seating area of a restaurant; provided, smoking shall
not be allowed within fifteen feet (15') of any exterior public doorway or any
air intake of a restaurant.
   E.   Designated Smoking Rooms And Areas:
      1.   An employer not otherwise restricted from doing so under this
section may elect to provide smoking rooms where no work is performed except
for cleaning and maintenance during the time the room is not in use for
smoking, provided each smoking room is fully enclosed and exhausted directly to
the outside in such a manner that no smoke can drift or circulate into a
nonsmoking area. No exhaust from a smoking room shall be located within fifteen
feet (15') of any entrance, exit or air intake.
      2.   If smoking is to be permitted in any space exempted in subsection D.
of this section or in a smoking room pursuant to subsection E.1. of this
section, such smoking space must either occupy the entire enclosed indoor space
or, if it shares the enclosed space with any nonsmoking areas, the smoking
space shall be fully enclosed, exhausted directly to the outside with no air
from the smoking space circulated to any nonsmoking area, and under negative
air pressure so that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area
when a door to an adjacent nonsmoking area is opened. Air from a smoking room
shall not be exhausted within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance, exit or air
intake. Any employer may choose a more restrictive smoking policy, including
being totally smoke free.
      3.   A nursing facility licensed pursuant to the nursing home care act
may designate smoking rooms for residents and their guests. Such rooms shall be
fully enclosed, directly exhausted to the outside, and shall be under negative
air pressure so that no smoke can escape when a door is opened and no air is
recirculated to nonsmoking areas of the building.
      4.   Restaurants shall be totally nonsmoking or may provide nonsmoking
areas and designated smoking rooms. Food and beverage may be served in such
designated smoking rooms which shall be in a location which is fully enclosed,
directly exhausted to the outside, under negative air pressure so smoke cannot
escape when a door is opened, and no air is recirculated to nonsmoking areas of
the building. No exhaust from such room shall be located within twenty five
feet (25') of any entrance, exit or air intake. Such room shall be subject to
verification for compliance with the provisions of this subsection by the state
department of health.
   F.   Posting:
      1.   The person who owns or operates a place where smoking or tobacco use
is prohibited by law shall be responsible for posting a sign or decal, at least
four inches by two inches (4" x 2") in size, at each entrance to the building
indicating that the place is smoke free or tobacco free.
      2.   Responsibility for posting signs or decals shall be as follows:
         a.   In privately owned facilities, the owner or lessee, if a lessee
is in possession of the facilities, shall be responsible;
         b.   In corporately owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of
the facility involved shall be responsible; and
         c.   In publicly owned facilities, the manager and/or supervisor of
the facility shall be responsible.
   G.   Violation And Penalty: Any person who knowingly violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   H.   Enforcement:
      1.   The state or local governmental agency or the person who owns or
operates a public place shall, at a minimum, do the following in order to
prevent smoking in public places:
         a.   Post signs at entrances to places where smoking is prohibited
which state that tobacco use is prohibited; and
         b.   Ask tobacco users to refrain from using any form of tobacco
products, including vapor products, upon observation of anyone violating the
provisions of this act.
      2.   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the
Office of Community Development. In addition, any peace officer or code
enforcement official may enforce this chapter.
   I.   Statutory Construction And Severability: It is the intent of the City
of Seminole to supplement applicable state and federal law and not to duplicate
or contradict such law. The provisions of this section are severable, and the
invalidity of any provision of the section shall not affect other provisions of
the section which can be given effect without the invalid provision. (Ord.
1159, 10-8-2013; amd. Ord. 1237, 3-10-2020)
10-4-19: SOCIAL HOST/SOCIAL HOSTING:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains one-
half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages and "low point beer" as
defined herein.
   GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event, where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER: A parent, stepparent and/or legal guardian.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
   LOW POINT BEER: Beverages containing more than one-half of one percent (1/
2 of 1%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths percent
(3.2%) alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or cereal malt
beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley or
other grain, malt or similar products.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON AT A SOCIAL GATHERING: 1. Any person and/or persons who
have actual and/or apparent control of any unlicensed location, public or
private, and regardless of their age; or
      2.   Any person and/or persons at an unlicensed location who give or
otherwise provide any alcoholic and/or low point beer but do not accept
remuneration; provided, cover charges, admission fees, and/or nominal costs for
attending social gatherings at unlicensed locations shall not be considered
remuneration.
   UNLICENSED LOCATION: Any premises, grounds, buildings, rooms and/or other
property, regardless whether public or private, and regardless whether owned,
leased, rented or otherwise under the control of any person or persons
responsible for that property where there is a social gathering which is not
licensed by the city and/or state to sell alcoholic beverage or low point beer.
   B.   Prohibition For Allowing Persons Under Twenty One Years Of Age To
Consume Alcohol And/Or Low Point Beer At Unlicensed Locations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any responsible person having real or
apparent control of any unlicensed location to knowingly host, permit, or allow
a gathering to take place at said location where even one person under twenty
one (21) years of age consumes an alcoholic beverage and/or low point beer,
whenever said responsible person either knows a person under twenty one (21)
years of age has consumed an alcoholic beverage and/or low point beer or
reasonably should have known that a person under twenty one (21) years of age
consumed an alcoholic beverage and/or low point beer and that responsible
person has not taken reasonable precautions to prevent the consumption of an
alcoholic beverage and/or low point beer by a person under twenty one (21)
years of age as set forth in subsection B2 of this section.
      2.   If persons under twenty one (21) years of age are present and
alcoholic beverage and/or low point beer are being consumed at that location,
the responsible person or persons shall take reasonable precautions to prevent
the consumption of alcoholic beverage and/or low point beer by any person under
twenty one (21) years of age at the gathering. Reasonable precautions include,
but are not limited to, controlling the quantity of such beverages, verifying
the age of persons attending, and supervising the activities of the persons
under twenty one (21) years of age present.
      3.   Any person at an unlicensed location who accepts remuneration for
any alcoholic beverage and/or low point beer that are being served or otherwise
provided shall be subject to all laws, licenses, rules and/or regulations as
those in the business of selling such beverages, as a licensed establishment;
provided, cover charges, admission fees, and/or nominal costs for attending
social gatherings at unlicensed locations shall not be considered remuneration.
      4.   This section shall not apply to:
         a.   Any use of alcoholic beverages and/or low point beer by a person
under twenty one (21) years of age that occurs within the confines of the
family home and under the direct supervision of an immediate family member; or
         b.   Any use of an alcoholic beverage by a person under twenty one
(21) years of age that occurs as part of any religious practice and/or
ceremony.
   C.   Exception: This section shall not apply where prohibited or preempted
by state or federal law. (Ord. 1167, 8-12-2014)
ARTICLE A. CURFEW FOR MINORS
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Short Title
10-4A-2: Definitions
10-4A-3: Curfew Hours
10-4A-4: Parental Responsibility
10-4A-5: Exceptions
10-4A-6: Special Functions
10-4A-7: Responsibility Of Owners Of Public Places
10-4A-8: Violations; Police Procedures
10-4A-9: Penalties
10-4A-1: SHORT TITLE:
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the ORDINANCE REGULATING THE
PRESENCE AND CONDUCT OF MINORS ON STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES. (2000 Code § 10-
425)
10-4A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   ADULT: A person who is age eighteen (18) years or older.
   CITY: The city of Seminole, Oklahoma.
   CUSTODIAN: Any person the age of eighteen (18) years or older, who is in
loco parentis to a juvenile.
   GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A "public place" shall
include, but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling
alley, cafe, theater, drugstore, poolroom, shopping center, parking lot and any
place devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall
also include the area immediately surrounding any of the above. (2000 Code §
10-425; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
10-4A-3: CURFEW HOURS:
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be present or remain in any public
place either on foot or in any vehicle, in, about or upon any place in the city
after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday nights until six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the morning after; or between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturday and Sunday,
unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian, or other adult person
having custody or control of such minor or unless the presence of such minor is
connected with or required by some legitimate employment, trade, profession, or
occupation. (2000 Code § 10-425)
10-4A-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having
custody or control of any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to suffer
or permit, or by inefficient control to allow, such person to be on the streets
or sidewalks or on or in any public property or public place within the city
within the hours set forth in section 10-4A-3 of this article. However, the
provisions of this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by his parent,
guardian, custodian or other adult person having the care, custody or control
of the minor; or if the parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made
a missing person notification to the police department. (2000 Code § 10-425)
10-4A-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   The prohibitions in sections 10-4A-3 and 10-4A-4 of this article shall not
apply:
   A.   To a minor accompanied by the parent or guardian of such minor.
   B.   To a minor accompanied by an adult authorized by the parent or guardian
of such minor to take said parent's place in accompanying said minor for a
designated period of time and purpose within a specified area.
   C.   To a minor exercising first amendment rights protected by the United
States constitution, such as interstate travel, the free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech and the right of assembly. Such minor shall evidence the bona
fides of such exercise by possession of a written communication, signed by such
minor and countersigned by a parent of such minor, and with their home address
and telephone number, specifying when and where and in what manner said minor
will be on the streets at night (during hours when this article is otherwise
applicable to said minor) in the exercise of a first amendment right specified
in such communication.
   D.   In case of reasonable necessity, but only if the minor has in said
minor's possession a written communication signed by the minor, countersigned
by a parent of such minor evidencing their home address and telephone number,
and establishing such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a
designated time for a described purpose, including points of origin and
destination.
   E.   To a minor who is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer.
   F.   To a minor returning home by a direct route from, and within thirty
(30) minutes of the termination of, a school activity, or an activity of a
religious or voluntary association, provided the minor has a written
communication in the minor's possession, countersigned by the parent indicating
the home address and telephone number, the purpose of the event, when, where
and in what manner said minor will be on the streets at night.
   G.   To a minor carrying a certified card of employment, briefly identifying
the minor, the addresses of his home and his place of employment and his hours
of employment, or carries a valid proof of employment which may include the
latest payroll receipt not over thirty (30) days old. (2000 Code § 10-425)
10-4A-6: SPECIAL FUNCTIONS:
   Any minor attending a special function or entertainment of any church,
school, club, or other organization that requires such minor to be out at a
later hour than that called for in section 10-4A-3 of this article shall be
exempt from the provisions of section 10-4A-4 of this article; provided the
church, school, club or other organization shall register in advance with the
chief of police or his designee, to have the minors stay out to this later
hour. The registrant shall state the time the function or entertainment shall
end, and the minors who attend the function shall be required to be in their
homes or usual places of abode within one-half (1/2) hour after the function is
ended. (2000 Code § 10-425)
 
10-4A-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OF PUBLIC PLACES:
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or having
charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors
under the age of eighteen (18) years between the hours set forth in section 10-
4A-3 of this article. (2000 Code § 10-425)
10-4A-8: VIOLATIONS; POLICE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Detecting Minor In Violation; Notice To Parents: Any police officer,
upon finding a minor in violation of section 10-4A-3 of this article, shall
ascertain the name and address of such minor and warn the minor that he is in
violation of curfew and shall direct the minor to proceed at once to his or her
home or usual place of abode. The police officer shall notify the parents,
guardian, or person having custody and control of such minor.
   B.   Failure Of Juvenile To Follow Police Instructions: If such minor
refuses to heed such warning or direction by any police officer or refuses to
give such police officer his correct name and address, or if the minor has been
warned on a previous occasion that he or she is in violation of curfew, he or
she shall be taken to the police department and the parent, guardian or other
adult person having the care and custody of such minor shall be notified to
come and take charge of the minor. If the parent, guardian or other adult
person above cannot be located or fails to come and take charge of the minor,
the minor shall be released to the juvenile authorities.
   C.   Filing Report With Police Chief: In any event, such police officer
shall, within twenty four (24) hours, file a written report with the chief of
police, or shall participate to the extent of the information for which he is
responsible. Said report shall be treated, for purposes of juvenile records, in
accordance with the statutes of the state.
   D.   Release Of Minor To Parent Or Juvenile Authorities: When a parent,
immediately called, has come to take charge of the minor, and the appropriate
information has been recorded, the minor shall be released to the custody of
such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or fails to take charge of the
minor, then the minor shall be released to the juvenile authorities; except to
the extent that, in accordance with police regulations approved in advance by
juvenile authorities, the minor may temporarily be entrusted to a relative,
neighbor or other person who will, on behalf of the parent, assume the
responsibility of caring for the minor pending the availability or arrival of a
parent.
   E.   First Violation: In the case of a first violation by a minor, the chief
of police shall cause to be personally delivered, or by certified mail, send to
a parent, written notice of said violation with a warning that any subsequent
violation will result in full enforcement of this article, including
enforcement of parental responsibility and of applicable penalties. (2000 Code
§ 10-425)
10-4A-9: PENALTIES:
   Any minor violating the provisions of this article shall be dealt with in
accordance with the juvenile court law and procedure 1 . Any parent, guardian
or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor violating this
article shall, after having been previously notified under subsection 10-4A-8E
of this article, be fined pursuant to section 1-1-8 of this code for each
offense. (2000 Code § 10-425; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 OS § 7303-1.2 for Oklahoma juvenile code.
ARTICLE B. PREVENTION OF YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Findings And Intent
10-4B-2: Definitions
10-4B-3: Distribution And Sales To Minors Prohibited
10-4B-4: Receipt Of Tobacco Products By Minors
10-4B-5: Distribution Of Tobacco Product Samples
10-4B-6: Sale Of Tobacco Except In Original Sealed Packaging
10-4B-7: Public Access To Displayed Tobacco Products
10-4B-8: Report Of Violations And Compliance Checks
10-4B-9: Nonretaliation
10-4B-1: FINDINGS AND INTENT:
   The city council finds that youth addiction to tobacco products is a public
health problem with grave health consequences. In recognition that almost
ninety percent (90%) of all smokers begin smoking by the age of eighteen (18),
action is needed to curtail the easy access of minors to cigarettes and other
addictive tobacco products. Furthermore, the city council finds that the
Oklahoma state legislature has limited the powers granted to local governments
to address the problem of youth access to tobacco. Therefore, the intent of
this article is to: a) implement the strictest and most enforceable system
allowed under Oklahoma state law to prevent the illegal sale of cigarettes and
other tobacco products to minors; and b) periodically amend and update this
article as necessary to best utilize any applicable powers which may be
returned to Oklahoma municipalities in the future; and c) educate, encourage
and assist underage tobacco users in ceasing all use of addictive tobacco
products, preferably before daily use of such products is initiated. (Ord.
1150, 6-12-2012)
10-4B-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CIGARETTE: Any product that contains nicotine, is intended to be burned or
heated under ordinary conditions of use and consists of or contains:
   A.   Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance not containing
tobacco;
   B.   Tobacco, in any form, that is functional in the product, which, because
of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filter, or its packaging and
labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette
described in subsection A of this definition.
   The term "cigarette" includes "roll your own" (i.e., any tobacco which,
because of its appearance, type, packaging, or labeling is suitable for use and
likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making
cigarettes). For purposes of this definition of cigarette, nine one-hundredths
(0.09) of an ounce of "roll your own" tobacco shall constitute one individual
"cigarette".
   PROOF OF AGE: A driver's license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
eighteen (18) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other likeness
of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
   SAMPLE: A tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no cost
for the purpose of promoting the product.
   SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for human
consumption.
   TRANSACTION SCAN: The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver's license or other government
issued photo identification.
   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE: Any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale or entry that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver's license or other government issued photo identification.
(Ord. 1150, 6-12-2012)
10-4B-3: DISTRIBUTION AND SALES TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Unlawful To Sell, Give Or Furnish Tobacco To Minors: It is unlawful for
any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner any tobacco product to
another person who is under eighteen (18) years of age, or to purchase in any
manner a tobacco product on behalf of any such person. It shall not be unlawful
for an employee under eighteen (18) years of age to handle tobacco products
when required in the performance of the employee's duties.
   B.   Demand For Proof Of Age: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution
of tobacco products shall demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or
recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the basis of appearance that
the prospective purchaser may be under eighteen (18) years of age. If an
individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products has demanded
and was shown proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient who is not
under eighteen (18) years of age, the failure to subsequently require proof of
age shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   C.   Defenses: Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably
relied upon proof of age shall be a defense to prosecution under subsection A
or B of this section. A person cited for violation of this section shall be
deemed to have reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not
be found guilty of such violation, if such person proves that:
      1.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product
presented a driver's license or other government issued photo identification
purporting to establish that such individual was eighteen (18) years of age or
older; and
      2.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver's license or other government issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
      3.   Provided that this defense shall not relieve from liability any
person cited for a violation of this section if such person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver's license or other government issued photo
identification was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of
the defense described in this subsection does not affect the availability of
any other defense under any other provision of law.
   D.   Each Business Location A Separate Entity: For purposes of determining
the liability of a person controlling franchises or business operations in
multi-locations for any violation of subsection A or B of this section, each
individual franchise or business location shall be deemed a separate entity.
   E.   Fines, Fees Or Costs: When a person is convicted or enters a plea and
receives a continued sentence for a violation of subsection A or B of this
section, the total of any fines, fees or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense within a two
(2) year period following the first offense; and
      3.   Three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third or subsequent offense
within a two (2) year period following the first offense. (Ord. 1150, 6-12-
2012)
10-4B-4: RECEIPT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY MINORS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is under eighteen (18) years of age
to purchase, receive, or have in his possession a tobacco product, or to
present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false or
fraudulent for the purpose of purchasing or receiving any tobacco product. It
shall not be unlawful for an employee under age eighteen (18) years of age to
handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the employee's
duties.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsection A of this section, the total of any
fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense; and
      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second or subsequent offense
within a one year period following the first offense. (Ord. 1150, 6-12-2012)
10-4B-5: DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCT SAMPLES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to distribute tobacco products or product
samples to any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   No person shall distribute tobacco product samples in or on any public
street, sidewalk, or park that is within three hundred feet (300') of any
playground, school or other facility when the facility is being used primarily
by persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsection A or B of this section, the total of any
fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second offense; and
      3.   Three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third or subsequent offense.
(Ord. 1150, 6-12-2012)
10-4B-6: SALE OF TOBACCO EXCEPT IN ORIGINAL SEALED PACKAGING:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the
original, sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (Ord.
1150, 6-12-2012)
10-4B-7: PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISPLAYED TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products in any manner that allows public access to the tobacco
product without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco product or an
employee or the owner of the store. The provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to retail stores which do not admit into the store persons under eighteen
(18) years of age.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (Ord.
1150, 6-12-2012)
10-4B-8: REPORT OF VIOLATIONS AND COMPLIANCE CHECKS:
   A.   Any conviction for a violation of this article and any compliance
checks conducted by the police department pursuant to subsection B of this
section shall be reported in writing to the alcoholic beverage laws enforcement
(ABLE) commission within thirty (30) days of the conviction or compliance
check. Such reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE
commission. Convictions shall be reported by the court clerk or his designee
and compliance checks shall be reported by the chief of police or his designee.
   B.   Persons under eighteen (18) years of age may be enlisted by the police
department to assist in enforcement of this article pursuant to the rules of
the ABLE commission. (Ord. 1150, 6-12-2012)
10-4B-9: NONRETALIATION:
   No person shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner retaliate against
any employee, applicant for employment or customer because such employee,
applicant, or customer reported violations of any provisions of this article.
(Ord. 1150, 6-12-2012)
ARTICLE C. SPRAY PAINT SALES TO MINORS
SECTION:
10-4C-1: Short Title
10-4C-2: Definitions
10-4C-3: Prohibited Conduct
10-4C-4: Posting Signs Prohibiting Sales To Minors
10-4C-5: Providing Spray Paint To Minors
10-4C-6: Penalty
10-4C-1: SHORT TITLE:
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the SPRAY PAINT ORDINANCE.
(2000 Code § 10-427)
10-4C-2: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   ADULT: A person who is age eighteen (18) years or older.
   CITY: The city of Seminole, Oklahoma.
   CUSTODIAN: Any person the age of eighteen (18) years or older, who is in
loco parentis to a juvenile.
   GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
selling or offering for sale any item prohibited by this article. (2000 Code §
10-427; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
10-4C-3: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Sales To Minors Restricted: No person shall sell to any minor any
aerosol container of paint (spray paint) capable of defacing property unless
such minor is accompanied by parent or guardian.
   B.   Proof Of Age And Identity Required: Any person selling or offering for
sale any aerosol container of paint shall require bona fide evidence of
majority and identity. Bona fide evidence of majority and identity shall be
established only by a document issued by a federal, state, county or municipal
government, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license,
a registration certificate issued under the federal selective service act or an
identification card issued to a member of the armed forces.
   C.   Defense To Criminal Prosecution: Proof that the defendant, or his
employee or agent, demanded, was shown and acted in reliance upon such bona
fide evidence in any sale transaction forbidden hereby shall be a defense to
any criminal prosecution thereof. (2000 Code § 10-427)
10-4C-4: POSTING SIGNS PROHIBITING SALES TO MINORS:
   Any person who owns, manages or operates a place of business wherein aerosol
containers of paint capable of defacing property are sold shall conspicuously
post at the place of display of said containers for sale and at the place of
sale (cash register) a sign in letters at least one-half inch (1/2") in height,
"Spray Paint Shall Not Be Sold To Minors". (2000 Code § 10-427)
 
10-4C-5: PROVIDING SPRAY PAINT TO MINORS:
   Any person who has reached the age of majority who shall give, trade or
otherwise provide to any minor any aerosol container of paint used in the
actual application of graffiti or defacement of property or used as an
intoxicant by such minor shall be guilty of an offense and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as prescribed in section 10-4C-6 of this
article. (2000 Code § 10-427)
10-4C-6: PENALTY:
   The penalty for violation of this article shall be incarceration for a
period not exceeding thirty (30) days in jail and/or a fine pursuant to section
1-1-8 of this code for each offense. (2000 Code § 10-427; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-
2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Assault And Battery Prohibited
10-5-1: ASSAULT AND BATTERY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   ASSAULT: Any wilful and unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence to
do a corporal hurt to another.
   BATTERY: A wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the person of
another.
   B.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and
battery within the city. (Ord. 935, 12-14-2000)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section 1-1-8 of this code. (Ord. 935, 12-14-2000; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-
2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
CHAPTER 6
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-6-1: Resisting An Officer
10-6-2: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
10-6-3: Assault Or Battery Upon Police Or Other Law Officer
10-6-4: Offenses Relating To Prisoners
10-6-5: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
10-6-6: False Alarms
10-6-7: False Representation To An Officer
10-6-8: Removal Of Barricades
10-6-9: Resisting Public Officials
10-6-1: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   OBSTRUCTION OF: The words "obstruction of" shall, in addition to their
common meaning, include:
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and before he
is under arrest; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer.
   RESISTING AN OFFICER: The intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
   B.   Resisting An Officer: It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or
in any way interfere with the police chief or any person duly authorized to act
as such, while the officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge
his official duties within the limits of the city.
   C.   Assisting Escape: It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal
another so as to assist such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer
seeking to make an arrest, or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier
in the face of or in front of an approaching officer. (2000 Code § 10-601)
10-6-2: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
   A.   An officer of the city making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the city or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon persons to assist
him in making such arrest, executing such process or suppressing such riot,
affray or unlawful assembly.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so. (2000 Code § 10-602)
10-6-3: ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, without justifiable or excusable cause,
to knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and battery upon the person
of a police officer or other officer of the law while in the performance of his
duties.
   B.   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this
code. (2000 Code § 10-603)
10-6-4: OFFENSES RELATING TO PRISONERS:
   A.   Rescuing Prisoners: It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal
manner, to set at liberty, rescue or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner
from any officer or employee of the city having legal custody of the same or
from jail or other place of confinement by the city, or to assist such prisoner
in any manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after
conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement. (2000 Code § 10-
604; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Escape Of Prisoners: It is unlawful for any person confined in jail or
other place of confinement by the city, or working upon the streets or other
public places of the city in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in
legal custody by authority of the city, to escape or attempt to escape from any
jail, prison or custody. (2000 Code § 10-605; amd. Ord. 1074, 3-11-2008, eff.
4-10-2008)
   C.   Furnishing Weapons To Prisoners: It is unlawful for any person to
furnish or attempt to furnish or take into jail or to deliver or attempt to
deliver to any prisoner therein confined, or in the custody of any officer, any
weapon, tool, intoxicating liquors, drug or other article without the consent
of the officer in charge. (2000 Code § 10-606)
10-6-5: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the city, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so. (2000
Code § 10-607)
10-6-6: FALSE ALARMS:
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or police
department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the fire
department or police department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run. (2000 Code § 10-608)
10-6-7: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER:
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the city government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the city. (2000 Code § 10-609)
10-6-8: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
   It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (2000 Code § 10-610)
10-6-9: RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
   A.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the city in
the discharge of his official duties;
   B.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
   C.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (2000 Code §
10-611)
TITLE 11
PARKS, RECREATION AND CEMETERY
CHAPTER 1
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
11-1-1: Board Created
11-1-2: Members; Terms
11-1-3: Filling Vacancies
11-1-4: Organization; Powers
11-1-5: Rules And Regulations
11-1-6: Annual Report Required
11-1-7: Donations
11-1-8: Council Power
11-1-9: Violation; Penalty
11-1-1: BOARD CREATED:
   There is created a library board to consist of six (6) members who shall be
citizens of the city appointed with reference to their fitness by the mayor
with the consent of the council. Members shall serve without compensation.
(2000 Code § 11-101; amd. Ord. 1068, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
11-1-2: MEMBERS; TERMS:
   Members of the library board shall be appointed for a term of three (3)
years, and the term of only two (2) members shall regularly expire each year.
Appointments shall be made before May 1 of each year. Any member may be removed
for cause by the mayor with the consent of the council. (2000 Code § 11-102)
11-1-3: FILLING VACANCIES:
   Vacancies on the board occasioned by removals, resignations or otherwise
shall be reported to the council, and shall be filled in the same manner as
original appointments are made. (2000 Code § 11-103)
11-1-4: ORGANIZATION; POWERS:
   A.   Officers; Bylaws: The board shall, immediately after appointment, meet
and organize by the election of one of their number as president and such other
officers as they may deem necessary. They shall make and adopt bylaws, rules
and regulations for their own guidance and for the government of the library
and reading rooms as may be expedient, not inconsistent with this chapter.
   B.   Control Of Expenditures: They shall have the exclusive control of the
expenditures of all monies collected and placed to the credit of the library
fund and of the supervision, care and custody of the grounds, rooms or
buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that purpose. All monies
received for the library shall be deposited in the treasury of the city to the
credit of the library fund, and shall be kept separate and apart from other
money of the city, and shall be paid out only upon properly authenticated
vouchers of the library board, approved by the mayor and council.
   C.   Powers:
      1.   Librarian And Assistants, Appointment: The board shall have the
power to appoint a suitable librarian and necessary assistants, fix their
compensation, and remove such appointees for cause, and shall, in general,
carry out the spirit and intent of this chapter.
      2.   Accept Donations: The board shall have the power to accept, or in
its discretion to decline, donations tendered as provided in this chapter for
the purpose of maintaining and augmenting collections other than of printed
books and periodicals.
      3.   Powers Subject To City Approval: All powers delegated to the board
shall be exercised subject to the approval of the mayor and council. (2000 Code
§ 11-104)
11-1-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   The library or reading room shall be subject to such reasonable rules and
regulations as the board may adopt in order to render the use of the library
and reading room to the greatest number. The board may exclude from the use of
the library and reading room any and all persons who wilfully violate such
rules. (2000 Code § 11-105)
11-1-6: ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED:
   The board shall make, on or before April 1 in each year, an annual report to
the council stating:
   A.   The condition of their trust on March 1 of the year;
   B.   The various sums of money received from the library fund and other
sources;
   C.   How much money has been expended and for what purposes;
   D.   The number of books and periodicals on hand;
   E.   The number of books added by purchase, gift or otherwise during the
year;
   F.   The number of books lost or missing; (2000 Code § 11-106; amd. Ord.
1068, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
   G.   The number of persons attending;
   H.   The amount of books loaned out;
   I.   The general character and kind of such books; and
   J.   Such other statistics, information and suggestions as they may deem of
general interest. (2000 Code § 11-106)
11-1-7: DONATIONS:
   Any person desiring to make donations of money, personal property or real
estate, for the benefit of the library or for the establishment, maintenance or
endowment of public lectures in connection with the library upon any subject
designated by the donor in the field of literature, science and the arts shall
have the right to vest the title to the money and personal property or real
estate so donated in the board, to be held and controlled by the board when
accepted according to the terms of the deed, gift, devise or bequest of such
property. However, the establishment, maintenance or public lectures in the
interest of any political party, politics or sectarian religion are expressly
prohibited. The board shall be held and considered to be special trustee of any
donations and endowments as provided in this section. (2000 Code § 11-107)
11-1-8: COUNCIL POWER:
   The library and reading room may be used for such other public purposes as
the council may deem proper and shall always be subject to such reasonable
rules and regulations as the council may adopt, in order to render the use of
the library and reading room of the greatest benefit to the greatest number.
(2000 Code § 11-108)
11-1-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who wilfully violates any rules and regulations regularly
adopted by the board for the government, care and use of the library and
reading room is guilty of an offense and punished accordingly.
   B.   Any person who destroys or defaces any book, periodical or other
property of the library, or who fails to return any such property at such time
as the same should have been returned, and fails to comply with the regulations
of the board thereto, is guilty of an offense and punished accordingly. (2000
Code § 11-109)
CHAPTER 2
PARK BOARD
SECTION:
11-2-1: Board Created
11-2-2: Members; Terms
11-2-3: Vacancies; Removal Of Members
11-2-4: Quorum; Meetings
11-2-5: Officers
11-2-6: Duties
11-2-7: Rules And Regulations !2R!
11-2-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is created a park board which shall consist of five (5) citizens, who
shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city council. (Ord.
984, 1-11-2005)
11-2-2: MEMBERS; TERMS:
Two (2) of the five (5) members of the park board shall be appointed for three
(3) year terms while two (2) members shall be appointed for two (2) year terms
and one member shall be appointed for a one year term. After the initial
appointments, all subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three (3)
years. The mayor, city manager and director of public works shall be ex officio
members of the board. (2000 Code §11-202; amd. Ord. 1068, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-
2008)
11-2-3: VACANCIES; REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
In the event of the death, resignation or removal of any member of the park
board, the mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a new
member to serve for the unexpired portion of the term vacated. If any regular
member shall be absent for four (4) consecutive meetings, his office shall
automatically be vacated and a new member shall be appointed by the mayor with
the consent of the city council. The mayor, with the consent of the city
council, may for good cause shown remove any member of the park board. (2000
Code §11-203)
11-2-4: QUORUM; MEETINGS:
   A.   Quorum: Three (3) voting members of the park board shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. (2000 Code §11-204)
   B.   Meetings: Regular meetings of the park board shall be on a quarterly
basis at times and places to be determined by the board. Special meetings may
be called as deemed necessary for the transaction of business. (Ord. 1068, 1-8-
2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
11-2-5: OFFICERS:
The park board shall select one member to serve as chairman, one member to
serve as vice chairman and one member to serve as secretary. (2000 Code §11-
205)
11-2-6: DUTIES:
The duties of the park board shall be to coordinate and to recommend to the
city manager, mayor and city council various programs, objectives, plans and
courses of action with respect to the parks, recreational and sports
activities, and cemetery activities in the city. (Ord. 984, 1-11-2005)
11-2-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The park board shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations for
the operation of parks, recreational and sports activities, and cemetery
activities in the city. Anyone violating the published rules and regulations of
the park board shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for which the maximum penalty
shall be a fine and punishment as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. The
rules and regulations shall be subject to review and approval of the city
council. (Ord. 1068, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
CHAPTER 3
LAKE DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
11-3-1: Commission Created
11-3-2: Terms
11-3-3: Ex Officio Members
11-3-4: Quorum
11-3-5: Member Appointments
11-3-6: Organization; Meetings
11-3-7: Personnel; Compensation
11-3-8: Duties
11-3-9: Rules And Regulations
11-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
   There is hereby created within and for the city a lake development
commission, which commission shall consist of five (5) citizens, as hereinafter
provided. The members of the commission shall be nominated by the mayor and
confirmed by the city council. The appointments shall be solely with reference
to their fitness and without reference to party affiliations, and the members
shall serve without compensation, except as may be hereinafter provided. (Ord.
986, 1-11-2005)
11-3-2: TERMS:
   Members of the lake development commission shall hold office for terms of
three (3) years, with exception that in the first instance, one shall be
appointed to serve for a term of one year, two (2) for a term of two (2) years
and two (2) for a term of three (3) years. When a vacancy occurs, then the
appointment shall be made to fill the unexpired term. The terms as set out
herein shall be from July 1 to June 30. (Ord. 978, 10-12-2004)
11-3-3: EX OFFICIO MEMBERS:
   The mayor shall be an ex officio member of the lake development commission
as herein created and the mayor may designate any other member or official of
the city as an additional ex officio member of the commission to serve as
members thereof and receive no compensation, other than any affixed salary as
set by the mayor and city council or by ordinance creating same. (2000 Code §
11-403)
11-3-4: QUORUM:
   At least three (3) members of the lake development commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. However, no action shall
be taken and be binding upon the commission unless concurred in by not less
than a majority of all members comprising the lake development commission.
(Ord. 978, 10-12-2004)
11-3-5: MEMBER APPOINTMENTS:
   The mayor shall appoint the members of the lake development commission
subject to approval and confirmation of the city council as provided in this
chapter. (2000 Code § 11-405)
11-3-6: ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS:
   A.   Commission Officers: The members of the lake development commission as
hereby created shall meet within ten (10) days after their appointment and
confirmation and organize by electing from their members a chairman, vice
chairman and secretary, except that the mayor shall, at his option, upon
appointment of the members of the commission in the first instance, have power
to name one of the members of the commission as chairman thereof; the member so
named as chairman by the mayor shall serve and act as such chairman of the
commission during the term of his office. Thereafter, the chairman of the
commission shall be elected by the commission.
   B.   Bylaws: The commission shall adopt from time to time such bylaws,
regulations and amendments thereto as may be necessary to effectuate the
purpose of this chapter.
   C.   Meetings: The regular meeting of the lake development commission after
the organizational meeting as set forth herein shall be the last week of July
of each year. However, a chairman of the commission, or mayor as ex officio
member thereof, may call a special meeting of such commission at any time as
may be deemed necessary for the transaction of any business of and by and
through the commission. At the regular meeting in the last week of July of each
year as provided herein, the commission shall elect such officers that may be
necessary for the ensuing year. (2000 Code § 11-406)
11-3-7: PERSONNEL; COMPENSATION:
   The members of the lake development commission as hereby created shall serve
without pay. The commission shall have power and authority to employ engineers,
attorneys, clerks, a manager or any other help deemed necessary, subject,
however, to the approval of the mayor and city council. The salary and
compensation of such employees, as the case may be, shall be fixed by the city
council and shall be paid out of the city treasury, and other officers and
employees and any other expenses incurred by the commission shall be paid out
of the city treasury as other legal expenses of the city government. (2000 Code
§ 11-407)
11-3-8: DUTIES:
   The lake development commission as hereby created shall have the
supervision, control, maintenance and operation and authority over and have
complete development and protection of the water system within the Seminole
Sportsman Lake area and may investigate such matters pertaining thereto for the
betterment of the Seminole Sportsman Lake for and on behalf of the city. The
commission may make recommendations as it may deem advisable providing for the
operation, development and maintenance of the lake area; and cause any surveys,
maps or plans in connection therewith as they may deem advisable and necessary
in their best judgment. All plans, plats or replats, surveys and
recommendations by the commission shall be submitted to the city council for
final approval or rejection. (2000 Code § 11-408; amd. Ord. 1068, 1-8-2008,
eff. 2-7-2008)
11-3-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   The lake development commission shall have the authority to promulgate rules
and regulations for the operation of Seminole Sportsman Lake and the
surrounding area. Anyone violating the published rules and regulations of the
lake development commission shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for which the
maximum penalty shall be a fine and punishment as provided in section 1-1-8 of
this code. The rules and regulations shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city council. (2000 Code § 11-409)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC PARKS
ARTICLE A. REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-4A-1: Designated Parks
11-4A-2: Defacing Property
11-4A-3: Injuring Plant Life
11-4A-4: Littering
11-4A-5: Vendor Or Merchant License Required
11-4A-6: Motorized Vehicles Prohibited
11-4A-7: Camping Restricted
11-4A-8: Advertising Prohibited In Parks
11-4A-9: Use Of Parks For Picnics
11-4A-10: Trespassing On Reserved Areas
11-4A-11: Attaching Of Wires To Trees And Structures
11-4A-12: Climbing Of Trees
11-4A-13: Animals And Fowl
11-4A-14: Discharge Of Firearms
11-4A-15: Disorderly Conduct
11-4A-16: Begging, Solicitations
11-4A-17: Violation; Penalty
11-4A-1: DESIGNATED PARKS:
   All places owned by the city and used as parks are declared to be public
parks within the meaning of this chapter and are subject to all rules and
regulations set out in this article. (2000 Code § 11-601)
11-4A-2: DEFACING PROPERTY:
   No person shall write upon or mark or deface in any manner or use in any
improper way any water closet, park seat, any building, fence or other property
in any park. (2000 Code § 11-602)
11-4A-3: INJURING PLANT LIFE:
   No person shall break, cut, mutilate or injure, remove or carry away any
trees, shrubs, plants, flowers, stone or stone walk, bench, stand, structure,
fence or anything whatsoever in or upon any park. (2000 Code § 11-603)
11-4A-4: LITTERING:
   No person shall throw stones or rubbish of any kind into any lake, pond or
stream or other place in the parks, except into receptacles designated for that
purpose. No person shall foul in any manner any pool, spring or drinking
fountain in any park. (2000 Code § 11-605)
11-4A-5: VENDOR OR MERCHANT LICENSE REQUIRED:
   No person shall set up any booth, table, stand or device for vending or
retailing any candies, ice cream or other articles whatsoever, without first
obtaining a license therefor from the city and complying with all applicable
ordinances governing itinerant vendors and merchants. (2000 Code § 11-606)
11-4A-6: MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   Motorized vehicles, including any "motor vehicle" or "motorcycle" as defined
in section 15-1-4 of this code, shall not be permitted in a public park except
on the roadway and surface of the dedicated public streets or roads in the
park. (2000 Code § 11-607)
11-4A-7: CAMPING RESTRICTED:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for any person to camp overnight in any
place owned by the city and used as a municipal park. This section shall not
apply to self-contained motor homes on designated, paved parking lots adjacent
to the parks.
   B.   Exception, Council Approval: Any deviation from subsection A of this
section shall require the approval of the city council. (2000 Code § 11-608)
11-4A-8: ADVERTISING PROHIBITED IN PARKS:
   A.   Advertising Or Distributing Circulars: No person shall advertise in any
manner or distribute or hand out any circulars, handbills or posters of any
kind or of any commodity or other thing in any public park.
   B.   Affixing Handbills To Trees, Buildings: No person shall affix any
circulars, handbills or posters of any kind on any tree, lamppost, hydrant,
curbstone, sidewalk, coping, flagpole, fence, wall, building or other place in
any public park or on any street, avenue, alley or other public grounds under
the supervision of the city.
   C.   Driving Animal Or Vehicle Displaying Advertising: No person shall drive
any animal or vehicle displaying any advertising of any kind in or through any
public park in the city or under its supervision without prior approval of city
council. (2000 Code § 11-609)
11-4A-9: USE OF PARKS FOR PICNICS:
   A.   Hours: Unless otherwise posted, no person shall use the parks of the
city from dusk to dawn, with the exception of organized groups approved by the
director of public works. (2000 Code § 11-610; amd. Ord. 1068, 1-8-2008, eff.
2-7-2008)
   B.   Garbage Cleanup: It shall be the duty of any person using the parks of
the city for the purpose of luncheons, picnics or meals of any kind to collect
all waste, rubbish and garbage and to place the same in receptacles provided
for that purpose. (2000 Code § 11-610)
11-4A-10: TRESPASSING ON RESERVED AREAS:
   No person shall go or walk upon any space in any public park reserved for
flowers or other plants, or appropriated to any special use, or invade any plot
reserved by the city for shrubbery, grass or flowers, or for other special
purposes. (2000 Code § 11-611)
11-4A-11: ATTACHING OF WIRES TO TREES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   No person, without a written permit from the director of public works,
shall attach any electric wires, insulator or other device of any character to
any tree, plant or structure in any park.
   B.   No person shall establish, erect or maintain any telegraph wires,
telephone wires or electric light and power wires, or construction for the
support of the same, in, through, or across any public park, except with the
written permission of the director of public works. (2000 Code § 11-612; amd.
Ord. 1068, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
11-4A-12: CLIMBING OF TREES:
   No person shall climb any trees within any public park of the city. (2000
Code § 11-613)
11-4A-13: ANIMALS AND FOWL:
   A.   Running At Large:
      1.   No person shall permit any horse, cow or other domestic animal to go
in or run at large in the public parks of the city, and all such animals shall
be taken up and impounded and disposed of as provided by this code.
      2.   No person shall permit any domestic fowl which belong to him or are
in his possession to escape into or run in any public park. (2000 Code § 11-
614)
   B.   Chasing, Killing Or Trapping: No person shall chase, kill, set snares
for, pet or tease any rabbit, squirrel, bird, fish or any other animal or thing
belonging to the city in any parks, or kept therein, except as permitted by the
park board. (2000 Code § 11-614; amd. Ord. 1068, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
11-4A-14: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
   No person shall discharge any firearms in any public park. (2000 Code § 11-
615)
11-4A-15: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   No person shall be guilty of disorderly, unchaste, or lewd conduct, or of
habitual loafing or sleeping on the ground or benches, or make, aid or assist
in making any disorderly noise, riot or breach of the peace within the limits
of any public park belonging to the city. (2000 Code § 11-616)
11-4A-16: BEGGING, SOLICITATIONS:
   No person shall solicit, beg or accept any alms or gifts for charitable or
other purposes in any public park within the city or belonging to the city.
(2000 Code § 11-617)
11-4A-17: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this article, either by doing
anything which is prohibited or by failing or refusing to do that which is
commanded, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section 1-
1-8 of this code; each day of such violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense, and violators shall be held liable for restitution of any damages
caused by their actions. (2000 Code § 11-618)
ARTICLE B. PARK USE FEES
SECTION:
11-4B-1: Fees For Park Uses
11-4B-2: Responsibility For Collection Of Fees
11-4B-3: Review Of Rates
11-4B-4: Park User Fee Fund
11-4B-5: Penalty
11-4B-1: FEES FOR PARK USES:
   A.   Fees Enumerated: The city parks department is hereby authorized and
directed to collect the following fees for use of park facilities:
1. Seminole High School               $1,000.00 annual
2. Seminole state college             1,000.00 annual lease
3. Seminole baseball association:     25.00/team
League play                           5.00/team
Tournament play
4. Seminole soccer association:       25.00/team
League play                           5.00/team
Tournament play
5. Men's softball association:        25.00/team
League play                           5.00/team
Tournament play
6. Seminole tiny chiefs               25.00/team
7. Seminole tennis association        1.00/match
 
   B.   Per Season Fees: Unless specified herein, the above charges represent
fee per season. (2000 Code § 11-621; amd. Ord. 1068, 1-8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
11-4B-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COLLECTION OF FEES:
   The leagues and organizations using the facilities shall be responsible for
the collection, reporting and paying to the parks department of the applicable
fee. (2000 Code § 11-622)
11-4B-3: REVIEW OF RATES:
   The park board shall be responsible for the annual review of the rate
schedule and shall report to the rate study committee of the city council prior
to April 1 of each year. (2000 Code § 11-623)
11-4B-4: PARK USER FEE FUND:
   All fees collected under this article shall be placed in a separate city
interest bearing account entitled "park user fee fund". All fees collected
herein shall be earmarked for maintenance and capital improvement of athletic
facilities. (2000 Code § 11-624)
11-4B-5: PENALTY:
   Anyone wilfully violating this article shall be guilty of an offense for
which the penalty shall be as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code, and
further may be denied use of the park facilities. (2000 Code § 11-625)
CHAPTER 5
SPORTSMAN LAKE
SECTION:
11-5-1: Permits And Rates For Facilities Use
11-5-2: Review Of Rates
11-5-3: Rules And Regulations
11-5-4: Penalty
11-5-1: PERMITS AND RATES FOR FACILITIES USE:
   A.   Fees Enumerated: The city is authorized and directed to collect the
following fees for Sportsman Lake facilities:
1.  Daily camping fees:
     Electric, water and sewage                           $20.00
     Electric and water only                              15.00
2.  Senior citizens camping (65 years of age and older):
     Electric, water and sewage                           17.00
     Electric and water only                              12.00
3.  Extra appliances                                      2.00
4.  Primitive camping                                     8.00
5.  Annual boat permit                                    25.00
6.  Daily boat permit                                     5.00
7.  Pavilion rental:
     a. Cove 3 - main campground                          25.00
     b. Cove 1 - equestrian campground (3 hours or less)  25.00
     c. Cove 1 - equestrian campground (daily)            75.00
8.  Building rental                                       50.00
9.  Equestrian camping                                    15.00
10. Equestrian senior citizens camping (65 or older)      12.00
11. Equestrian primitive camping                          8.00
12. Equestrian trail annual (immediate family)            30.00
13. Equestrian trail daily                                3.00
 
(Ord. 1156, 5-20-2013)
   B.   Possession Of Permit Required: Permits must be carried at all times
while on the lake. (Ord. 957, 6-10-2003)
11-5-2: REVIEW OF RATES:
   The lake development commission shall be responsible for the annual review
of the rate schedule and shall report to the rate study committee of the city
council prior to April 1 of each year. (Ord. 957, 6-10-2003; amd. Ord. 1068, 1-
8-2008, eff. 2-7-2008)
11-5-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Entire Lake Area: The rules cited in this subsection pertain to entire
Sportsman Lake area.
      1.   Payment of camping fee is required within thirty (30) minutes after
choosing a site.
      2.   All vehicle tires must be on the paved spur or on the graveled
camping area.
      3.   A person may not "hold" sites for other people even if payment is
made for the sites. Each site must be occupied by the person paying the fee and
must be occupied the first night and every day after.
      4.   No firearms or hunting is permitted.
      5.   Maximum camping is fifteen (15) days.
      6.   All dogs must be leashed or under owner's control at all times.
      7.   Campsites must be kept clean.
      8.   Campfires are allowed in designated areas only.
      9.   No alcoholic beverages (of any kind) are allowed.
      10.   No motor driven vehicles are permitted off the permanent roads or
adjacent parking areas.
      11.   The speed limit must be observed at all times.
      12.   No person shall deface any park property, or remove or misuse such
property in any improper way.
      13.   No person shall climb, cut or damage trees, shrubs or greenery in
the park area.
      14.   No person shall commit any nuisance or any offense against decency
or good morals in the park.
      15.   No person shall throw stones or rubbish of any kind into the lake
or upon the ground within the park area.
      16.   No person is authorized to sell any item from a vehicle, stand or
device without approval of the mayor and city council.
      17.   Overnight camping shall be in designated areas only, unless
authorized by the lake ranger.
      18.   No bicycles are allowed on equestrian or hiking trails. Bicycles
shall be on roads only. (Ord. 957, 6-10-2003)
   B.   Lake And Lake Camping Areas: Rules cited in this subsection pertain
specifically to lake and lake camping areas, in addition to rules cited in
subsection A of this section.
      1.   Swimming and wading is allowed in designated areas. No skiing or
seining is allowed. No person shall enter the water except in fishing
paraphernalia outside of designated swimming areas.
      2.   There shall be no trotlines or jug fishing. (Limb lines are
permitted only from existing tree limbs.)
      3.   There shall be no net type fishing including gill net, trammel net
or hoop net. (Ord. 992, 4-12-2005)
      4.   All largemouth bass less than twelve inches (12") in length must be
returned to the lake when caught. Spotted bass of any size may be kept. (Ord.
996, 5-10-2005)
      5.   Wheelchair vehicles shall be permitted on the pier; no cycles or
bikes are allowed. (Ord. 992, 4-12-2005)
      6.   No jet skis, wave runners, wet bikes or similar personal motorized
watercraft are allowed. (Ord. 1053, 3-13-2007)
   C.   Equestrian Trail And Equestrian Camping Area: Rules cited in this
subsection pertain specifically to equestrian trail and equestrian camping
area, in addition to rules cited in subsection A of this section.
      1.   Riders are required to stay on the marked trails only. All other
areas are off limits to horses.
      2.   Electric fences and/or portable corrals may be used for containing
stock, but there may not be a tree one inch (1") in diameter or larger inside
the enclosure or within four feet (4') of the edge of the fence or corral.
Corrals or fences must be wholly within the campsite area rented by the stock's
owner and may not cover more than one hundred eighty (180) square feet.
(Noncampsite areas may be used if approved by the lake ranger in advance.)
      3.   Unloading of horses shall be in day parking or camping areas only.
No person shall use paved parking for loading/unloading of stock.
      4.   Trees may be used to tether stock under the following conditions:
         a.   Stock cannot be tied directly to a tree but may be tied to a
"line" tied from the tree. The "line" must be attached around the tree by a
strap that is at least three inches (3") wide. A rope cannot be tied around a
tree.
         b.   There must be some form of "stop" placed in the line so that the
stock cannot reach any tree to chew or rub.
      5.   Stock may not be tethered to park facilities other than designated
tether posts. (Ord. 957, 6-10-2003)
11-5-4: PENALTY:
   Anyone wilfully violating the rules set out in this chapter shall be guilty
of an offense for which the penalty shall be as provided in section 1-1-8 of
this code, and further may be denied use of the lake facilities. (Ord. 957, 6-
10-2003)
CHAPTER 6
CEMETERY
   SECTION:
11-6-1: Rules Adopted; Penalty
11-6-2: Cemetery Fees
11-6-1: RULES ADOPTED; PENALTY:
   The cemetery rules and regulations adopted by the city council are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference. Violations of the rules are
punishable as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 11-801)
11-6-2: CEMETERY FEES:
The following fees are imposed for Maple Grove Cemetery:
A.   Gravesite (25 percent of site fee is applied to perpetual care $450.00
account)
B.   Grave opening (weekdays)                                       $400.00
C.    Grave opening (weekends and city holidays)                    $500.00
D.   Grave opening *weekends and city holidays after 12:00, noon)   $600.00
E.   Disinterment                                                   $400.00
F.   Cremation (weekday)                                            $200.00
G.   Cremation (weekends and city holidays)                         $250.00
                                                                       $200.00
H.   Double cremation (same space)                                  per
                                                                       opening
I.   Headstone setting                                              $25.00
J.   Headstone vault                                                $225.00
 
(Ord. 970, 2-11-2004; amd. Ord. 1256, - -)
TITLE 12
PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE A. PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
12-1A-1: Appointment; Terms; Vacancies; Compensation
12-1A-2: Quorum
12-1A-3: Organization; Meetings
12-1A-4: Personnel Hiring Authority
12-1A-5: Powers And Duties
12-1A-6: Comprehensive Plan; Purpose
12-1A-7: Zoning Board
12-1A-8: Subdivision Of Land
12-1A-9: Uniformity Of Zoning Regulations
12-1A-10: Purpose Of Zoning Plan
12-1A-11: Limitation Of Zoning Authority
12-1A-1: APPOINTMENT; TERMS; VACANCIES; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Creation; Appointment; Term: A city planning commission is hereby
created. It shall consist of seven (7) appointive citizens. The seven (7)
appointive members shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the
council, and shall serve for terms of three (3) years, the terms to be from
July 1 to June 30, or until their successors take office. Members shall be
appointed solely with reference to their fitness and not party affiliation.
   B.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms.
   C.   Removal: The council may remove a member of the planning commission for
the good of the service.
   D.   Compensation: The members shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 988,
1-11-2005)
12-1A-2: QUORUM:
   Four (4) members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business; any action taken by a majority of the members present at a meeting
shall be binding upon the commission. (2000 Code § 12-102)
12-1A-3: ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS:
   The members of the city planning commission shall meet within two (2) weeks
after their appointment and confirmation and organize by electing from their
members a chairman, vice chairman, and secretary, and shall adopt from time to
time such bylaws, rules and regulations and amendments thereto as may be
necessary to effectuate the purposes of this article. The regular meetings of
the commission, after the organization meeting as set forth herein, shall be
the first week of July, at which time the commission shall elect officers as
set out herein, for the ensuing year. (2000 Code § 12-103; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-
11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-1A-4: PERSONNEL HIRING AUTHORITY:
   A.   Hiring Authority: The commission shall have the power, subject to the
approval of the council, to employ planners, engineers, attorneys, clerks and
other help deemed necessary for the efficient operation of the commission.
   B.   Compensation: The salary and compensation of such employees shall be
fixed by the city council, and shall be paid out of the city treasury as other
officers and employees, and the necessary expenses incurred by the commission
shall be paid out of the city treasury as other legal expenses of the city
government. (2000 Code § 12-104)
12-1A-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   The commission shall prepare and recommend to the council for adoption a
comprehensive plan for the physical development and betterment of the city. In
conducting its work, the commission may consider and investigate any subject
matter pertaining to the development, betterment and zoning of the city and
make recommendations as it may deem advisable concerning the adoption thereof
by the council. The commission may make or cause to be made surveys, studies,
maps and plans for the conduct of its activities, and before final action is
taken by the council on the location or design of any public buildings, statues
or memorials, parks, or boulevards, streets, alleys, playgrounds, public
grounds, bridges or any change in the location of any street or alley, the
question shall be submitted to the commission for investigation and report. The
commission shall have the power and duty to review plans, specifications and
site plans to be furnished by the applicant prior to the issuance of building
or property permits, which shall conform to city codes and ordinances and be in
accordance with the planning requirements of the city. The review of single-
family dwellings shall not be undertaken by the commission but shall remain the
responsibility of the building inspector. In reviewing plans, specifications
and site plans, the applicant for the review and the commission, in approving
or denying the application, shall use a form substantially complying with
exhibit "A" attached to ordinance 533, dated February 12, 1974, and
incorporated herein by reference. (2000 Code § 12-105)
12-1A-6: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; PURPOSE:
   In the preparation of the plan, the commission shall make careful and
comprehensive surveys and studies of the present conditions and future growth
of the city, and with due regard to its relation to neighboring territory. The
plans shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a
coordinated, adjusted development of the city and its environs which will be in
accordance with present and future needs, to best promote health, safety and
morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare. (2000 Code § 12-
106)
12-1A-7: ZONING BOARD:
   The city planning commission shall serve as a zoning board for the city.
(2000 Code § 12-107)
12-1A-8: SUBDIVISION OF LAND:
   The commission may prepare and recommend to the council for adoption, rules
and regulations governing subdivisions of land within the city limits. All
plans, plats and replats of land laid out in two (2) or more lots, plats or
parcels, or streets or alleys, or other ways intended to be dedicated for
public use shall be first submitted to the commission for its recommendations.
The commission shall check the proposed dedication or subdivision to ensure
compliance with the comprehensive plan. The disapproval of any plan, plat or
replat by the city shall be deemed the refusal of the dedication thereon. (2000
Code § 12-108)
12-1A-9: UNIFORMITY OF ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Zoning Plan: The commission shall prepare and recommend to the council
a zoning plan to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, the size
of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lots that may be occupied,
the size of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of population, the
location and use of building structures and land for trade, industry,
residences or other purposes.
   B.   Division Of City Into Districts: The commission may recommend the
division of the city into districts of such number, size and area that may be
deemed best suited to carry out the zoning plan. All such regulations shall be
uniform for each class or kind of building throughout the district, but the
regulations from one district may differ from those of other districts. (2000
Code § 12-109)
12-1A-10: PURPOSE OF ZONING PLAN:
   Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with the comprehensive plan
and designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire,
panic and other dangers, to promote health and the general welfare, to promote
adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue
concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and the public requirements, such
regulations to be made with a reasonable consideration among other things as to
the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses
and with a view to conserving the value of buildings, and encourage the most
appropriate use of land throughout the city. (2000 Code § 12-110)
12-1A-11: LIMITATION OF ZONING AUTHORITY:
   The authority of the city planning commission to serve as a zoning board for
the city in any actions taken by the commission under this chapter and title,
shall all be subject to the provisions of chapters 2 and 3 of this title, and
the actions of the commission as a zoning board are specifically subject to the
appellate authority and jurisdiction of the board of adjustment as established
in article B of this chapter. (2000 Code § 12-111)
ARTICLE B. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
12-1B-1: Appointment; Terms; Vacancies
12-1B-2: Meetings And Procedures
12-1B-3: Appeals
12-1B-4: Power To Hear And Decide Appeals
12-1B-5: Power To Grant Variances
12-1B-6: Power Relative To Exceptions
12-1B-7: Exercise Of Powers
12-1B-8: Appeal To District Court
12-1B-1: APPOINTMENT; TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Creation; Appointment; Terms: There is hereby created a zoning board of
adjustment consisting of five (5) citizens, each to be appointed by the mayor
with the approval of the city council for a term of three (3) years. For the
first appointment under the provisions of this article, however, one member
shall be appointed for a term of one year; two (2) members shall be appointed
for a term of two (2) years; and two (2) members shall be appointed for a term
of three (3) years. All appointments thereafter shall be for a term of three
(3) years. Not less than two (2) members shall be appointed from the membership
of the planning commission.
   B.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled by the appointing authority for
the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
   C.   Chairman: The board shall elect a chairman from its membership to serve
for a term of one year. (Ord. 989, 1-11-2005)
12-1B-2: MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Rules: The board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of
this article.
   B.   Meetings: Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such other times as the board may determine.
   C.   Oaths; Witnesses: The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman,
may administer oaths and require the attendance of witnesses by subpoena.
   D.   Minutes Of Proceedings: The board shall keep the minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be a public record.
   E.   Authority To Reverse Order, Grant Variance: The concurring vote of four
(4) members of the board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of any such administrative official, or to decide in
favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under
any such ordinance or code, or to effect any variation in such ordinance or
code. (2000 Code § 12-122)
   F.   Open Meetings: The board shall be subject to open meetings laws of the
state and all meetings, deliberations and voting shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-1B-3: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal; Filing Fee: Appeals to the board of adjustment may be
taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of
the city affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal
shall be taken within thirty (30) days after the decision by filing with the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the city clerk notice of appeal
specifying the grounds therefor, and by paying a filing fee in the sum of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) at the time the notice is filed. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. (2000
Code § 12-123; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the board of adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed
with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would in his
opinion cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted
by the board of adjustment or by a court of record on application and notice to
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on the cause shown.
   C.   Setting Time For Hearing; Notice: The board of adjustment shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matter referred to it,
give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in interest,
and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney. (2000 Code § 12-123)
12-1B-4: POWER TO HEAR AND DECIDE APPEALS:
   The board of adjustment shall have the power to hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the administrative officer in the enforcement of the
zoning regulations set forth in chapters 2 and 3 of this title. (2000 Code §
12-124)
12-1B-5: POWER TO GRANT VARIANCES:
   The board of adjustment shall have the power to authorize, upon appeal in
specific cases, such variances from the terms of the zoning regulations in
chapters 2 and 3 of this title as will not be contrary to the public interest
where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
the zoning regulations will, in any individual case, result in unnecessary
hardship, so that the spirit of the zoning regulations shall be observed,
public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variances
may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding
by the board of adjustment that:
   A.   At the time of the original adoption of the regulations or if there are
extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of
property in question because of its size, shape, or topography, or other
extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition of a specific piece of
property;
   B.   The strict application of the zoning regulations to this particular and
exceptional piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship, not self-
imposed by the owner or developer;
   C.   Such conditions are peculiar only to the particular piece of property
involved and not generally prevalent in the area;
   D.   The strict application of the zoning regulations to this particular
piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship due to a physical
handicap of the owner or occupant and such variance shall be granted on a
temporary basis, expiring upon the termination of the need therefor;
"Physical handicap" as used herein shall be established by filing, with the
city, a "physical handicap variance application" upon a form provided by the
city; or
   E.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public
good or impair the purposes and intent of the zoning regulations; provided,
however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or
structure that is prohibited by the zoning regulations set forth in chapters 2
and 3 of this title. (2000 Code § 12-125)
12-1B-6: POWER RELATIVE TO EXCEPTIONS:
   The board shall have the power to hear and decide special exceptions to the
terms of this title upon which the board is required to pass under this title.
Upon appeal, the board is empowered to permit the following exceptions:
   A.   District Boundary Line Extension: To permit the extension of a district
where the boundary line of a district divides a lot in single ownership as
shown of record;
   B.   Street Layout: To interpret the provisions of this title where the
street layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on
the map fixing the several districts, which map is on file in the office of the
city clerk;
   C.   Off Street Parking: To grant exceptions to the off street parking
requirements set forth in this title when it is determined that the size and
shape of the lot to be built on is such that off street parking provisions
could not be complied with, and that the proposed use will not create undue
traffic congestion in the adjacent streets; and (2000 Code § 12-126)
   D.   Setback And Area: To grant exceptions to the setback and area
requirements herein established; provided, however, that whenever exceptions
are granted to setback or to area requirements, new setback and area
requirements for the lot or lots covered by the exception shall be specifically
set forth in a manner that will carry out the purpose and intent of these
regulations. (2000 Code § 12-126; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-1B-7: EXERCISE OF POWERS:
   In exercising its powers, the board may, in conformance with the provisions
of this title, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made, and to that end
shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. In
considering all appeals from rulings made under this title, the board shall, in
making its findings on any specific case, determine the effect of the proposed
change upon the supply of light and air to adjacent property, upon the
congestion of the public streets, upon the public safety from fire and other
hazards, upon the established property values within the surrounding area, and
upon other factors relating to the public health, safety, comfort, morals, and
general welfare of the people of the city. Every ruling made upon any appeal to
the board shall be accompanied by a written finding of fact based upon the
testimony received at the hearing afforded by the board, and shall specify the
reason for granting or denying the appeal. (2000 Code § 12-127)
12-1B-8: APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT:
   A.   Right To Appeal; Filing Of Notice: An appeal from any action, decision,
ruling, judgment or order of the board of adjustment may be taken by any person
or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved, or any taxpayer or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the city to the district court by filing notice
of appeal with the city clerk and with the board of adjustment within ten (10)
days from the filing of the decision of the board, which notice shall specify
the grounds of such appeal. Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein
provided, the board shall transmit to the court clerk the original or certified
copy of all the papers constituting the record in the case, together with the
order, decision or ruling of the board.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the district court from the board of
adjustment stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the chairman of the board of adjustment from which the appeal is taken
certifies to the court clerk, after the notice of appeal has been filed, that
by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his opinion cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
district court or superior court upon application or notice to the
administrative officer in charge of the enforcement of the terms and provisions
of this title, and upon notice to the chairman of the board of adjustment from
which the appeal is taken, and upon due cause being shown, the court may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the decision brought up for
review. (2000 Code § 12-128)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2A-1: Short Title
12-2A-2: Purposes; Interpretation
12-2A-3: Definitions
12-2A-4: Creation Of Zoning Districts
12-2A-5: Boundaries Of Districts
12-2A-6: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
12-2A-7: General Requirements, Height, Lot Size, Street Access
12-2A-8: Building Permit; Certificate Of Occupancy
12-2A-9: Authorizing Conditional Uses
12-2A-10: Amendments
12-2A-11: New Additions; Classification
12-2A-12: Violation; Penalty
12-2A-1: SHORT TITLE:
   Chapters 2 and 3 of this title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SEMINOLE. Said chapters are enacted pursuant to the
authority granted by the state legislature and the charter of the city. (2000
Code § 12-201)
12-2A-2: PURPOSES; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Purposes: The regulations contained in chapters 2 and 3 of this title
are necessary to encourage the most appropriate uses of land; to maintain and
stabilize the value of property; to reduce fire hazards and improve public
safety and safeguard the public health; to decrease traffic congestion and its
accompanying hazards; to prevent undue concentration of population; and to
create a stable pattern of land uses upon which to plan for transportation,
water supply, sewerage, schools, parks, public utilities, and other facilities.
   B.   Interpretation: In interpreting and applying the provisions of chapters
2 and 3 of this title, such provisions shall be held to be necessary for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. (2000 Code § 12-202)
12-2A-3: DEFINITIONS:
   Except where the natural construction of the writing indicates otherwise,
the following definitions shall be used in the interpretation and construction
of chapters 2 and 3 of this title. In addition, words used in the present tense
include the future; words in the singular number include the plural and words
in the plural include the singular; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not
"directory".
   ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or a portion of the main building
located on the same lot as the main building.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate to
the principal use of land or buildings and located upon the same premises.
   ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE: Any cloth, card, paper, metal, painted glass,
wooden, plastic, plaster, stone sign or other sign, device or structure of any
character whatsoever including statuary, placed for outdoor advertising
purposes on the ground or elsewhere. The term "placed" shall include erecting,
constructing, posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking,
carving, or otherwise fastening, affixing or making visible in any manner
whatsoever. The area of an advertising structure shall be determined as the
area of the largest cross section of such structure. Neither directional,
warning nor other signs posted by public officials in the course of their
public duties nor merchandise or materials being offered for sale shall be
construed as advertising signs for the purpose of this chapter.
   ALLEY: A public passage or way affording a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   APARTMENT: A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by three (3) or more
families living independently of each other exclusive of hotels or motels.
   AUTOMOBILE: A self-propelled mechanical vehicle designed for use on streets
and highways for the conveyance of goods and people, including, but not limited
to, the following: passenger cars, trucks, buses, motor scooters and
motorcycles.
   BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a basement shall be counted as a story when more than one-half (1/
2) of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
BOARDING HOUSE: A dwelling other than a hotel where for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, accommodations for lodging and meals are
provided for three (3) or more, but not exceeding twelve (12), persons on a
weekly or monthly basis.
   BUILDING: Any structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure for
persons, animals or chattel. When separated by dividing walls without openings,
each portion of such structure so separated shall be deemed a separate
structure.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average line of the highest
and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
highest point of coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof or
to the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   BUILDING, MAIN: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be
deemed to be a main building on the lot on which it is situated.
   CHILDCARE CENTER: Any place, home or institution which receives three (3) or
more children under the age of sixteen (16) years, and not of common parentage,
for care apart from their natural parents, legal guardians or custodians, when
received for regular periods of time for compensation; provided, however, this
definition shall not include public and private schools organized, operated or
approved under the laws of this state, custody of children fixed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, or to churches or other religious or public
institutions caring for children within the institutional building while their
parents or legal guardians are attending services, meetings or classes, or
engaged in church activities.
   CONTAINER, SHIPPING: A portable, weather resistant receptacle designed for
or used in the shipment of goods, wares or merchandise. Shipping containers
shall have a measurement designation of at least one TEU (20 foot equivalent
unit - 20 foot length x 8 foot width x 8 foot 6 inch height).
   CONTAINER, TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE: A purpose built, fully enclosed, box
like container with signage on one or more outer surfaces that is designed for
temporary storage of household goods and/or equipment. Such containers are
uniquely designed for ease of loading to and from a transport vehicle.
   COVERAGE: The lot area covered by all buildings located thereon, including
the area covered by all overhanging roofs, except where otherwise specifically
designated.
   DISTRICT: Any section or sections of the city for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises or the height and area of buildings
are uniform.
   DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is designed or used as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including house trailers.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by
three (3) or more families living independently of each other, exclusive of
hotels, motels, resort type hotels, auto or trailer courts or camps.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE UNIT OWNERSHIP: Attached or detached dwellings designed
to be occupied by two (2) or more families living independently of each other,
but having a common indivisible open area space and permitting different
ownership of the individual dwellings.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A. Site Built: A building, other than a manufactured
home, containing one dwelling unit designed for occupancy by not more than one
family and built to the standards for conventional site built housing in
compliance with the building code adopted by the city of Seminole.
   B.   Modular: A single-family dwelling constructed in whole, or partially
preassembled sections which are to be permanently joined together. The dwelling
shall be constructed in compliance with the building code adopted by the city
of Seminole.
1. A building permit shall be required for all modular homes prior to
installation on a lot or space inside the city limits. The building permit and
inspection fees shall be the same as a site built structure. No utilities shall
be connected prior to the issuance of a building permit.
2. Construction documents, including a foundation design, shall be submitted in
two (2) sets with each application for a building permit.
3. All framework used for transporting the structure shall be removed.
4. Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, all inspections,
including foundation and rough and final, for plumbing, mechanical, electrical
and building, shall be completed by the city building inspector on site or
within a ten (10) mile radius of the city limits.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached dwelling designed to be occupied by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT: One room, or a suite of two (2) or more rooms, designed for
or used by one family for living and sleeping purposes, and having one kitchen
or kitchenette.
   FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a
group of not to exceed five (5) persons, excluding servants, not all related by
blood or marriage, occupying premises and living together as a single nonprofit
housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding or lodging
house, hotel, club or similar dwelling for group use. A "family" includes
servants employed by the family.
   GARAGE APARTMENT: A dwelling unit for one family erected above a private
garage.
   GARAGE, PARKING: Any building, or portion thereof, used for the storage of
four (4) or more automobiles for profit, hire, or otherwise involving
compensation in which any servicing which may be provided is incidental to the
primary use for storage purposes, and where repair facilities are not provided.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or a part of a main building used for
storage purposes only for not more than four (4) automobiles or for a number of
automobiles which does not exceed one and one-half (11/2) times the number of
families occupying the dwelling unit to which the garage is accessory,
whichever number is the greater.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any garage, other than a private garage, available to the
public, used for the care, servicing, repair or equipping of automobiles or
where such vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GASOLINE OR FILLING STATION: Any area of land, including structures thereon,
that is used for the retail sales of gasoline or oil fuels, or other automobile
accessories, and incidental services including automobiles, but not including
painting, major repair or automatic automobile washing or the sale of butane or
propane fuels.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all of the floors
of a building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces or exterior walls
or from the centerline of walls separating two (2) buildings, and including,
but not limited to, the following spaces:
   A.   Basements;
   B.   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
   C.   Floor space for mechanical equipment with structural headroom of seven
feet (7') or more;
   D.   Penthouses;
   E.   Attic space providing headroom of seven feet (7') or more;
   F.   Interior balconies, mezzanines and enclosed covered porches and
enclosed steps;
   G.   Accessory uses in enclosed covered space, but not including space used
for off street parking.
   HELP YOURSELF LAUNDRY: A laundry providing home type washing, drying and
ironing machines for hire to be used by the customer on the premises.
   HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation or a profession which is customarily carried
on by the inhabitants, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of
the dwelling for dwelling purposes, which does not change the character
thereof, and which is conducted entirely within the main or accessory
buildings; and provided, that no sale of merchandise is carried on and that
there is no display of merchandise or sign other than one nonilluminated
nameplate not more than two (2) square feet in area attached to the main or
accessory building; and no mechanical equipment is used or activity is
conducted which creates any noise, dust, odor or electrical disturbance beyond
the confines of the lot on which the occupation is conducted. The conducting of
a tearoom or restaurant, rest home, clinic, childcare center, tourist home; or
cabinet, metal or auto repair shop shall not be deemed a home occupation.
   HOTEL: A building or group of buildings under one ownership containing four
(4) or more sleeping rooms occupied, intended or designed to be occupied, as
the more or less temporary abiding place of persons who are lodged with or
without meals for compensation, but not including an auto or trailer court or
camp, sanatorium, hospital, asylum, orphanage or building where persons are
housed under restraint.
   HOUSE TRAILER 1 : Any portable or mobile vehicle used or designed to be used
for living purposes and with its wheels, rollers or skids in place.
KENNEL: Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, grooming, or selling
dogs and cats, or any premises wherein any person or persons own or keep more
than three (3) dogs or more than three (3) cats over six (6) months of age.
   LOADING, OFF STREET: A space for loading of vehicles adequate to permit such
vehicle to be loaded while parked completely on private property.
   LOT: Any plot of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one main
building, and accessory buildings and uses, including such open spaces as are
required by this code and other laws or ordinances, and having its principal
frontage on a street.
   LOT AREA: The total area measured on a horizontal plane included within the
lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot which has at least two (2) adjacent sides abutting for
their full lengths on a street; provided, that the interior angle at the
intersection of such two (2) sides is less than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°).
   LOT DEPTH: The average distance from the street line of the lot to its rear
line measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, FRONTAGE: That dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES: The lines bounding a "lot" as defined in this section.
   NONCONFORMING USE: A structure or land lawfully occupied by a use that does
not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   OFF STREET PARKING SPACE: A parking space adequate to permit the parking of
a vehicle outside the curb or ditch lines of the street.
   OPEN PORCH: A porch which has no side or front walls, screens or other
enclosures, except structural roof supports where a roof is provided.
   PARKING AREA: A permanently surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed,
sufficient in size to store automobiles together with a permanently surfaced
driveway connecting all parking spaces with a street or alley.
   PARKING SPACE: A permanently surfaced area enclosed or unenclosed, being ten
feet (10') in width and eighteen feet (18') in depth and intended for the
parking of motor vehicles.
   ROOMING HOUSE: A building where lodging only is provided for compensation
for three (3) or more, but not exceeding twelve (12) persons. A building which
has accommodations for or which houses more than this number shall be defined
as a "hotel" under the terms of this section.
   SMALL BUSINESS: A business that has less than four (4) employees (not
counting the owner), low volume of traffic, and a parking lot area of less than
five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   STORY: That portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if
there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
   STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet (3') above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than two-thirds (2/3) of the floor area is
finished off for use. A half story containing a dwelling unit or living
quarters shall be counted as a full story.
STREET: Any public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of
access to abutting property.
   STREET, INTERSECTING: Any street which joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or which is attached to something having a location on
the ground.
   TOURIST COURT OR MOTEL: An area containing one or more buildings designed or
intended to be used as temporary sleeping facilities of one or more transient
families and intended primarily for automobile transients.
   TOURIST HOME: A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations in not more than
four (4) rooms are provided or offered for transient guests for compensation.
   TRAILER COURT OR MOBILE HOME PARK 2 : A parcel of land or property which is
used or intended to be used or rented for occupancy by one or more trailers or
movable sleeping quarters of any kind.
USE AREA: A zone established for a certain type of use such as commercial or
residential.
   WAREHOUSE, MINI: A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively
for storing the excess personal property of an individual or family when such
is not located on the lot with their residence, such as passenger motor
vehicle, house trailer, motorcycle, boat, camper, or other items of personal
property generally stored in residential accessory structures. This shall not
include storage of any merchandise, stock, furnishings, or vehicles of a
business of any kind.
   WAREHOUSE, STANDARD: A building or portion thereof used for storage of any
merchandise, stock, furnishings, or vehicles of a business of any kind. This
definition shall not be deemed to include a storage area operated in
conjunction with a retail business when located on the same property.
   YARD: An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except where otherwise specifically provided in this Code that an
accessory building or structure may be located in a portion of a yard required
for a main building. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the
width of the side yard, the depth of a front yard or depth of a rear yard, the
least horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be
used.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard located in front of the front elevation of a building
and extending across a lot between the side yard lines and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the front property line and the main building or
any projection thereof other than steps.
   YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between the
lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line
and the rear of the outside wall of the main building or any projections other
than steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On corner lots, the
rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has
its least dimension. On both corner lots, and interior lots, the rear yard
shall in all cases be the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard between the building and side line of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and outside wall of the side of the
main building or any projections other than steps. On corner lots, street
easements shall not be included in the computation of the minimum required side
yard. (2000 Code § 12-203; amd. Ord. 1031, 3-14-2006; Ord. 1056, 11-13-2007;
Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008; Ord. 1111, 2-9-2010; Ord. 1174, 5-12-
2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 6 of this title for mobile home regulations.
2 1. See Chapter 6 of this title for mobile home park regulations.
12-2A-4: CREATION OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
   This chapter and chapter 3 of this title classify and regulate the use of
land, buildings and structures within the City limits, as hereinafter set
forth. The regulations contained in said chapters are necessary to promote the
health, safety, convenience and welfare of the inhabitants by dividing the City
into zones and regulating therein the use of the land and the use and size of
buildings as to height and number of stories, the coverage of land by
buildings, the size of yards and open spaces, density of population and
location of buildings. The City is divided into the following zones:
Zoning District Section Of This Title
Zoning District                 Section Of This Title
R1-Z Single-Family              12-3A-1
R-1 One-Family Dwelling         12-3A-2
R-1A Affordable Dwelling        12-3A-2-1
R-2 Two-Family Dwelling         12-3A-3
R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling    12-3A-4
R-4 Townhouse Dwelling          12-3A-5
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial     12-3B-1
C-2 General Commercial          12-3B-2
C-3 Commercial                  12-3B-3
H-C Highway Commercial          12-3B-4
I-1 Light Industrial            12-3C-1
I-2 Restricted Light Industrial 12-3C-2
I-3 Heavy Industrial            12-3C-3
A-1 Agricultural                12-3D-1
T-1 Transitional                12-3D-2
F-1 Floodplain                  12-3D-3
PUD Planned Unit Development    12-3D-4
 
(2000 Code §§ 12-204, 12-213; amd. Ord. 1220, 6-12-2018; Ord. 1225, 8-14-2018)
12-2A-5: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
   Zoning districts as designated shall be bounded and defined as shown on a
map entitled "zoning map of the City of Seminole, County of Seminole, State of
Oklahoma", which map is on file in the Office of the City Clerk and is
incorporated by reference and made a part of chapters 2 and 3 of this title.
The map has been heretofore examined in detail by the Council and is adopted as
a part of this Code. However, chapters 2 and 3 of this title and the map are
subject to change from time to time as may be determined by the Council. (2000
Code § 12-205)
12-2A-6: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   In the event of uncertainty in the exact boundaries of any of the aforesaid
districts as shown on the "zoning map of the City of Seminole, County of
Seminole, State of Oklahoma", the Planning Commission, upon written application
or upon its own motion, shall recommend the location of such boundaries to the
Council. (2000 Code § 12-206)
12-2A-7: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS, HEIGHT, LOT SIZE, STREET ACCESS:
   A.   Uses: Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, no land shall be used
and no building, structure or improvement shall be made, erected, constructed,
moved, altered, enlarged or rebuilt which is designed, arranged or intended to
be used or maintained for any purpose or in any manner except in accordance
with the requirements established in the district in which such land, building,
structure or improvement is located, and in accordance with the provisions of
chapters 2 and 3 of this title relating to any or all districts.
   B.   Compliance With District Regulations: No building shall hereafter be
erected or altered which will exceed the height limit nor shall any building or
land be used or occupied hereafter in excess of the density regulations for
that district. No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to accommodate
a greater number of families than those specified for that district. No
building shall be erected or altered to exceed the specifications of required
lot size, maximum coverage, yard requirements, height limitations, or bulk
limitations for that district as defined.
   C.   Lot Abutting Public Street: No principal building shall hereafter be
constructed on a lot which does not abut a public dedicated street. (2000 Code
§ 12-207)
12-2A-8: BUILDING PERMIT; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   Chapters 2 and 3 of this title shall be enforced by a building inspector. It
is a violation of this title for any person to change or permit the change in
the use of land, buildings or structures, or to erect, alter, move or improve
any building or structure until a building permit or certificate of occupancy
has been obtained under the following conditions:
   A.   Building Permit Requirements: Whenever any structure or building is to
be improved, erected, moved or structurally altered, a building permit shall be
obtained from the building inspector as required in title 5 of this Code. Every
applicant for a building permit shall furnish the following information:
      1.   A plot plan, drawn to scale, showing the exact size, shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location on the lot
of all existing buildings and structures, and the exact size and location on
the lot of the structure or building proposed to be repaired, altered, erected
or moved, and the size, arrangement, number of parking stalls, movement of
vehicles and ingress and egress drives for all off street parking and loading
facilities.
      2.   A declaration of the existing and intended use of each existing and
proposed building or structure on the lot and the number of families and
housekeeping units which each existing building is designed to accommodate.
      3.   A survey (prepared by a land surveyor registered in the State),
locating property lines, easements and building lines (for new construction
only) of the lot on which the improvements are proposed to be located may be
required by the building inspector. The contractor may be required by the
building inspector to have the land surveyor recertify the stakes prior to the
footing inspection. Additional information relating to the proposed improvement
of existing structures needed to determine compliance with these regulations
may be requested by the building inspector. (2000 Code § 12-208; amd. Ord.
1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy: No change shall be made in the use of any
land or building or structure after the original adoption of chapters 2 and 3
of this title until a certificate of occupancy is obtained from the building
inspector for certifying that the provisions of said chapters 2 and 3 of this
title are complied with. Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection
of a new building or structure, an occupancy permit shall not be required,
except where the use of the building or structure is changed from that for
which the permit is issued or where the intended use is not clearly stated on
the building permit. (2000 Code § 12-208)
12-2A-9: AUTHORIZING CONDITIONAL USES:
   The uses listed under the various districts in chapter 3 of this title as
"conditional uses" are so classified because they more intensely dominate the
area in which they are located than do other uses permitted in the district;
however, the nature of such uses makes it desirable that they be permitted to
locate therein. The following procedure is established to integrate properly
the conditional uses with the other land uses located in the district. These
uses shall be reviewed and authorized or rejected under the following
procedure: (2000 Code § 12-209)
   A.   Filing Of Application And Fee: An application shall be filed with the
City Planning Commission for review. Such application shall show the location
and intended use of the site, and any other material pertinent to the request
which the Planning Commission may require. (2000 Code § 12-209; amd. Ord. 1075,
3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Hearings: The City Planning Commission shall hold one or more public
hearings thereon.
   C.   Report To Council: The Planning Commission shall, within forty five
(45) days of the date of application, transmit to the City Council its report
as to the effect of such proposed building or use upon the character of the
neighborhood, traffic conditions, public utilities and other matters pertaining
to the general welfare, and the recommendation of the Planning Commission
concerning use thereon. Thereupon, the City Council may authorize or deny the
issuance of a building permit for the use of land or buildings as requested.
(2000 Code § 12-209)
12-2A-10: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Public Hearing; Notice: The City Council may, from time to time, on its
own motion, or on petition from a property owner, or on recommendation of the
Planning Commission, amend the regulations and districts herein established. No
change in regulations, restrictions or district boundaries shall become
effective until after a public hearing held in relation thereto, at which
parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. At
least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in an official paper or paper of general circulation in the City.
   B.   Protest: Every such proposed amendment shall be referred by the City
Planning Commission for report. If a protest against such amendment be
presented, duly signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%)
or more of the land within such area proposed to be altered, or by the owners
of twenty percent (20%) or more of the area of the lots immediately abutting
either side of the territory included in such proposed change, or separated
therefrom only by an alley or street, such amendment shall not be passed except
by the favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the City Council.
   C.   Filing Of Petition By Landowners: Whenever the owners of fifty one
percent (51%) of the land in any area present a petition duly signed and
acknowledged to the City Council requesting an amendment of the regulations
prescribed for such area, it shall be the duty of the City Council to vote upon
such amendment within ninety (90) days of the filing of such petition by the
petitioners with the City Clerk. (2000 Code § 12-211)
   D.   Petition Fee: For each petition for amendment to this title, a fee of
two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be paid to the City Clerk. (2000 Code § 12-
211; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-2A-11: NEW ADDITIONS; CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   A-1 District: All new additions and annexations of land to the City
shall be in an A-1 Agricultural District, unless otherwise classified by the
Council, for a period of time not to exceed one year from the effective date of
the ordinance annexing such addition.
   B.   Study; Establish District Classification: Within this one year period
of time, the City Council shall instruct the City Planning Commission to study
and make recommendations concerning the use of land within such annexation to
promote the general welfare in accordance with the master plan, and upon
receipt of such recommendations, the City Council shall, after public hearings
as required by law, establish the district classification of such annexation;
provided, however, that this shall not be construed as preventing the City
Council from holding public hearings prior to annexation and establishing the
district classification at the time of such annexation. (2000 Code § 12-212)
12-2A-12: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
A violation of chapters 2 and 3 of this title is a misdemeanor and is
punishable by fine. Any person, firm or corporation who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of said chapters 2 and 3 of this title shall
be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this Code. (2000 Code § 12-210)
ARTICLE B. SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-2B-1: Shipping Containers
12-2B-2: Signs
12-2B-3: Commercial Building, Aesthetic Requirement
12-2B-4: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
12-2B-5: Alteration Or Enlargement Of Nonconforming Buildings
12-2B-6: Nonconforming Outdoor Advertising Signs, Structures
12-2B-7: Nonconforming Building Vacancy
12-2B-8: Change In Use Nonconforming
12-2B-9: Nonconforming Uses Of Land
12-2B-1: SHIPPING CONTAINERS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: The use of shipping containers as storage, buildings
and other dwellings on private property has increased within city limits.
Shipping containers and similar structures pose a risk to individuals and the
public because they are not securely anchored, lack certain design
specifications for specific purposes, not properly equipped for adequate
utilities, fire suppression systems, or sufficient ventilation, as well as and
other minimum requirements for appropriate and safe use. It is therefore
necessary to declare the use of said shipping containers as public nuisance and
to provide guidelines for their placement and use within the City of Seminole.
   B.   Enforcement: The provisions of this article shall be enforced as
provided in the City of Seminole Code of Ordinances.
   C.   Penalty: Violations of this chapter are designated as municipal
infractions as specified in Title 1, Chapter
1-1-8 and
1-1-9 of this code.
   D.   Shipping Containers Prohibited: No metal shipping containers shall be
allowed on any property within the corporate limits of Seminole, Oklahoma,
subject to the following recognized exceptions:
      1.   Industrial or business applications with an approved Conditional Use
Permit;
      2.   Temporary placement for relocation purposes or construction and then
only for a period of time, not to exceed 180 days, as approved by the Office of
Community Development. (Reference: International Building Code (IBC), sections
108.1 through 108.4.)
      3.   Industrial or commercial businesses, including religious
institutions, may continue to utilize current shipping containers if they were
located at their place of business on or before December 31, 2021. These
containers will be geolocated and granted Non-Conforming Accessory Use status
until their use is complete and the containers moved off the property. Any
additional shipping containers added to the property will be required to hold a
Conditional Use permit.
   E.   Requirements For Permanent Use Of Shipping Containers: Permanent
placement and use of shipping containers may be allowed in specific
circumstances and under certain conditions, provided they meet adequate design
and safety specifications for their particular purpose. The following minimum
criteria are required for approval of a Conditional Use Permit by the Planning
Commission:
      1.   All approved containers must be located in the rear or side of any
existing home, structure or vacant lot;
      2.   Placement and use of shipping containers must comply with all
applicable regulations and codes, including, but not limited to, building and
life safety codes, zoning ordinances, boundary, utility and other pertinent
setback requirements, acquisition of proper permits, as well as other
applicable rules and regulatory requirements.
      3.   Containers shall be:
         a.   Kept painted in a color or design scheme that matches or conforms
to other structures on the existing property and/or subdivision; or
         b.   Situated behind a permitted and approved site-proof fence; and
         c.   Required to adhere to any other condition required by the
Planning Commission if approved for a Conditional Use Permit.
      4.   Containers must only be used for storage and in no way utilized for
temporary or permanent occupancy or habitation.
      5.   A concrete foundation or appropriate footing must be utilized.
      6.   Proper verification must be provided to ensure that any proposed
container has not been used to house or transfer hazardous, flammable,
radioactive, or environmentally unsafe materials.
      7.   No hazardous materials shall be stored in greater quantities than
listed in 49 CFR.
      8.   These provisions shall not authorize placement of shipping
containers in violation of any applicable homeowner association rules or
restrictive covenants prohibiting such use.
   F.   Removal Of Storage Containers: Any property owner with a storage
container currently situated on property within the corporate limits shall have
sixty (60) days from the date of passage of this ordinance to remove such
storage containers, or to obtain a temporary permit for continued placement and
use on said property.
   G.   Failure To Remove Storage Container: Failure to remove any unpermitted
storage container following expiration of the sixty (60)-day period shall be
deemed a violation of Title 12, Section 2B and to enforcement and imposition of
penalties as provided.
(2000 Code § 12-367; amd. Ord. 1287, 4-11-23; Ord. 1302, 5-14-24)
12-2B-2: SIGNS:
   A.   Sign Regulations In All Districts:
      1.   Rights Of Way: Only signs installed by the Oklahoma department of
transportation, Seminole County road department and the city of Seminole street
department can be erected or placed in the right of way of a public street.
      2.   Off Premises Signs: Off premises signs are hereby prohibited along
any city street or highway within the city limits.
         a.   Exemption: The advertising of a citywide festival or seasonal
event held inside city limits and conducted by the city, school, chamber, Main
Street Association, Seminole Nation or a nonprofit agency shall be exempt from
the premises advertising rule, as long as event approval from the permit board
is obtained. Time limits for this exemption shall be sixty (60) days before the
event and no longer than four (4) days after the event has concluded.
         b.   Exemption:
            (1)   Upon recommendation by planning commission and passage of a
city of Seminole city council resolution the sponsorship of signs where an
individual(s) is recognized for significant positive contributions to the
reputation of the city in a statewide or national capacity, a sign shall be
allowed and exempt from the off premises advertising rule, so long as:
               (a)   The sponsor's recognition, including name or logo placed
on the sign, provides no location or contact information.
               (b)   The sponsor(s) name or logo on the sign covers no more
than ten percent (10%) of the sign. In no case shall the sign be larger than
four feet by eight feet (4' x 8'). If multiple sponsors exist the cumulative
total of sign coverage of all sponsors shall be no more than ten percent (10%)
of the sign.
               (c)   All other sign restrictions apply including traffic flow
consideration.
               (d)   A maintenance agreement with the community development
department must be in place prior to the placement of the signs.
            (2)   "Significant positive contributions to reputation of the City
of Seminole in a Statewide or National capacity" shall be defined and adjudged
by the Seminole City Council as follows:
               (a)   A person shall be deemed to have had a "significant
positive contribution" if by nature of having represented Seminole in an
historic event or capacity the individual has portrayed Seminole or caused
Seminole to be portrayed as an accomplished, proud, progressive or prosperous
community. Examples of this would be, President of the United States, renowned
writer/author, famous musician, accomplished astronaut, governor, professional
or olympic athlete, record holder for Oklahoma's all time wins at any given
sport, whereby the individual's efforts have focused positive attention upon
Seminole AND would be of particular interest to the traveling public.
               (b)   Exemption: Any long term or permanent outdoor sign or
scoreboard intended to market only to venue attendees is exempt from the off-
premises advertising rule. Any sign strategically located to appeal to both
venue attendees and the traveling public utilizing streets must comply with
section A-2-b of this section.
         c.   Exemption: Industrial Park Entries: If a business is located
within the boundaries of the Industrial Park and does not have access to a
major highway, a business indicator sign may be erected upon an approved
location with the current property owner's permission.
      3.   Nonconforming Signs: Any nonconforming sign presently located within
the city limits on the effective date hereof or located in an area annexed to
the city thereafter, shall be considered as a legal nonconforming sign and is
permitted; provided, that the sign was in all respects in compliance with
applicable law on the effective date hereof. If such sign is not in conformance
with existing law, such sign must be brought into conformance or removed. Such
sign shall be maintained in good condition and shall be allowed to remain in
existence only so long as such sign is not:
         a.   Replaced with a new structural frame.
         b.   Structurally altered.
         c.   Expanded.
         d.   Continued in use after rezoning, change of ownership of the sign
owner, property owner or activity to which the sign pertains.
         e.   Reestablished after damage or destruction if the estimated cost
of the reconstruction exceeds fifty percent (50%) of appraised replacement cost
as determined by the code enforcement officer.
   B.   Portable Signs, All Districts (Except Residential):
      1.   Definition: A "portable sign" includes all signs capable of being
easily transported, including lighted signs that are anchored. (2000 Code § 12-
369)
      2.   General Requirements: All commercial businesses are limited to
permanent signs as allowed per zoning regulations, temporary sales/promotional
signs placed on interior windows and temporary sales/promotional signs as an
exception regulated in this chapter. Portable signs shall be permitted only
during road construction, special events, special circumstances, and sales/
promotional events, provided they meet the following criteria:
         a.   Portable signs shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet at
any one location or property.
         b.   Portable signs shall be located on private property, not city or
state right of way.
         c.   Portable signs will be allowed only while permanent signs are
being constructed or repaired during construction, special events, and for
special circumstances.
         d.   Portable signs shall not be located on a corner lot in areas
prohibited by subsection 12-2C-2E of this chapter.
         e.   Lighted portable signs must comply with the national electrical
code and the zoning district standards in which the sign is located. Portable
signs may be served by a code approved one hundred ten (110) volt outlet with a
3-wire outdoor cord of not less than 16-gauge. No cord shall exceed twenty five
feet (25') in length, and it shall not be placed on or across sidewalks,
driveways, or parking spaces. Portable signs shall not flash nor cause glare
which would tend to blind the motoring public.
         f.   Portable signs shall not be permitted on property in excess of
thirty (30) days per calendar year without a special waiver.
         g.   All portable signs shall be maintained, freshly painted, and
aesthetically pleasing at all times.
         h.   No portable sign shall create a sight barrier, have language that
would be offensive to the general public, or create a nuisance.
         i.   Portable signs shall be anchored/secured by the property owner to
prevent personal or property damage caused by the movement of said portable
sign.
      3.   Exceptions:
         a.   Construction: Where street, highway, or other public works
construction disrupts normal access to a business, the director of community
development or designated agent may authorize a portable sign to be located on
private (and in some instances, public) property, to provide direction to said
business, where he has determined that said location will not constitute a
hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the public. This sign shall be
permitted only as long as the construction disrupts access or until ordered to
be moved by the director or agent, whichever shall occur first.
         b.   Special Events: When a spectator event or special entertainment
event is proposed, one portable sign shall be permitted in place of an
authorized permanent sign for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days per
event; provided, that no more than one sign per location at a time shall be
permitted, provided all general requirements are met.
         c.   Special Circumstance: Relates to business enterprises that cannot
have permanently mounted advertising signs at remote locations advertising a
product/service/property for sale. Examples of special circumstances are:
            (1)   Real Estate Signs: Realtors shall be allowed to advertise the
sale of real property by the placement of a portable sign on the property to be
sold. A yearly permit of twenty dollars ($20.00) per real estate firm will be
required for the placement of portable real estate signs. A realtor will be
required to sign a permit application acknowledging the requirements for
placement of portable signs. Portable signs must be removed no more than thirty
(30) days after sale of the property. Nothing in this provision shall relieve
any realtor from complying with other requirements of this section.
            (2)   Construction Contractor's Signs: A permit of five dollars
($5.00) per contractor will be required for the placement of portable
construction (siding, roofing, windows, etc.) signs. A contractor may display a
sign not to exceed thirty (30) days per job site, provided the sign is in
compliance with all provisions listed above. For each sign, a contractor will
be required to sign an application for permit which explains requirements and
location of portable signs.
            (3)   Political Signs: All political signs must be placed on
private property (with permission of the property owner). The property owner
shall then be responsible for the removal of all political signs not more than
seven (7) days after election day. Political signs that become deteriorated
must be removed immediately.
         d.   Temporary Sales/Promotional Signs:
            (1)   Signs Permitted: Temporary sales or promotional signs shall
be permitted by the community services director not to exceed thirty (30) days
per calendar year; provided all other general requirements are met.
            (2)   Permit Required: A permit shall be required for each event.
Applicant will be required to sign a permit application specifying dates signs
will be in place and acknowledging requirements for placement of portable
signs. (Ord. 999, 10-11-2005; amd. Ord. 1116, 6-8-2010; Ord. 1173, 5-12-2015;
Ord. 1235, 1-14-2020; Ord. 1266, 5-10-2022)
12-2B-3: COMMERCIAL BUILDING, AESTHETIC REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Highway 99/377 And Wrangler Boulevard: If a residential, commercial or
industrial building is utilized for a primary structure fronting Highway 99/377
(Milt Phillips/Jimmie Austin Boulevard from Park Heights Road to the north City
limits) or Highway 9/Wrangler Boulevard (extending to City Limits east and
west), the building must be covered with brick/rock veneer, stucco or EIFS.
Except as indicated in subsection C of this section, other material may be
utilized only upon approval by the Planning Commission.
   B.   Primary Structure: A primary structure is defined as any and all
buildings that are unobstructed by another building facing the street or
highway. It is possible to utilize two or more Primary Structures on one
property.
   C.   Downtown Area: Any metal or concrete block shall be prohibited for
exterior surface material on the front and exposed sides on any new
construction or façade renovation located in the downtown area including Main
Street from Seminole Avenue to Strother Avenue and the area bordered by
Seminole Avenue on the north, Milt Phillips on the west, railroad property on
the south, and 4th Street on the east.
   D.   Exceptions: Metal on a building will be allowed if it is consistent
with an existing regional or national brand or chain for their standard
exterior appearance. (Ord. 1204, 5-9-2017; amd. Ord. 1286, 3-14-2023)
12-2B-4: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
A legal nonconforming building or structure existing at the time of the
effective date hereof may be continued, maintained and repaired, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter and chapter 3 of this title. (2000 Code §
12-381)
12-2B-5: ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Additions And Enlargements: A nonconforming building or structure shall
not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless the building or structure,
including additions and enlargements, is made to conform to all of the
regulations of the district in which it is located. However, if a building or
structure is conforming as to use, but nonconforming as to yards or height or
off street parking space, the building or structure may be enlarged or added
to; provided, that the enlargement or addition complies with the yard and
height and off street parking requirements of the district in which the
building or structure is located.
   B.   Moving Building: No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved
in whole or in part to another location on the lot unless every portion of the
building or structure is made to conform to all of the regulations of the
district in which it is located. Nothing in this regulation shall prohibit
normal maintenance of the premises. (2000 Code § 12-382)
12-2B-6: NONCONFORMING OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS, STRUCTURES:
   Any advertising sign, billboard, commercial advertising structure or
statuary which is lawfully existing and maintained at the time this chapter and
chapter 3 of this title initially became effective which does not conform with
the provisions hereof shall not be structurally altered and all such
nonconforming advertising signs, billboards, commercial advertising structures
and statuary and their supporting members shall be completely removed from the
premises not later than three (3) years from the initial effective date of this
chapter and chapter 3 of this title. (2000 Code § 12-383)
12-2B-7: NONCONFORMING BUILDING VACANCY:
A building or structure, or portion thereof, which is nonconforming as to use,
which is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains unoccupied for a continuous
period of one and one-half (11/2) years shall not thereafter be occupied except
by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district in which it is
located. If the building is reoccupied prior to the one and one-half (11/2)
year period, it must be continuously occupied for such use for a period of six
(6) months or the vacancy period shall be considered as only temporarily
interrupted and reoccupancy must conform to these regulations after a total
vacancy period of one and one-half (11/2) years. (2000 Code § 12-384)
12-2B-8: CHANGE IN USE NONCONFORMING:
A nonconforming use of a conforming building or structure shall not be expanded
or extended into any other portion of such conforming building or structure or
changed except to a conforming use. If such a nonconforming use, or a portion
thereof, is discontinued for a period of six (6) months or changed to a
conforming use, any future use of such building, structure or portion thereof
shall be in conformity with the regulations of the district in which such
building or structure is located. A vacant or partially vacant nonconforming
building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the building or
structure was designed or intended if occupied within a period of one and one-
half (11/2) years after the initial effective date of this chapter and chapter
3 of this title. The use of a nonconforming building or structure may be
changed to a use of the same or a more restricted district classification; but
where the use of a nonconforming building or structure is changed to a use of a
more restricted district classification, it hereafter shall not be changed to a
use of a less restricted district classification. (2000 Code § 12-385)
12-2B-9: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND:
A nonconforming use of land where the aggregate value of all permanent
buildings or structures is less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) existing
at the time of initial adoption of these regulations may be continued for a
period of not more than three (3) years therefrom, provided:
   A.   Such nonconforming use may not be extended or expanded, nor shall it
occupy more area than was in use on the initial effective date hereof; and
   B.   If such nonconforming use or portion thereof is discontinued for a
period of three (3) months, or changed, any future use of such land or change
of use shall be in conformity with the provisions of the district in which such
land is located. (2000 Code § 12-386)
ARTICLE C. ADDITIONAL RULES FOR ALL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-2C-1: Conditions Of More Restricted District
12-2C-2: Open Space
12-2C-3: Height Rules
12-2C-4: Building Groups
12-2C-5: Animals
12-2C-6: Storage Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases
12-2C-7: Containers Regulated
12-2C-8: Trash Receptacles Required
12-2C-1: CONDITIONS OF MORE RESTRICTED DISTRICT:
   Whenever the specific district regulations pertaining to one district permit
the uses of a more restricted district, such uses shall be subject to the
conditions as set forth in the regulations of the more restricted district
unless otherwise specified. (2000 Code § 12-361)
12-2C-2: OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Restricted To Certain Building Or Structure: No open space or lot area
required for a building or structure shall, during its life, be occupied by or
counted as open space for any other building or structure.
   B.   Projections Into Yards: Open eaves, cornices, window sills and belt
courses may project into any required yard a distance not to exceed one foot
(1'). Open porches may project into a front or rear yard a distance not to
exceed five feet (5').
   C.   Front Yard And Building Setback Line: Where the dedicated street right
of way on which the main building fronts is less than fifty feet (50'), the
depth of the front yard and building setback line shall be measured starting at
a point twenty five feet (25') from the centerline of the street right of way.
   D.   Street Ingress And Egress: No dwelling shall be erected on a lot which
does not abut on at least one street for at least thirty five feet (35') and
have a width of at least sixty feet (60') at the building line. A street shall
form the direct and primary means of ingress and egress for all dwelling units.
Alleys, where they exist, shall form only a secondary means of ingress and
egress. A garage apartment may be built to the rear of a main dwelling if all
other provisions of these regulations are complied with.
   E.   Corner Lot, Sight Triangle: On any corner lot on which a front or side
yard is required, no wall, fence, sign, structure or any plant growth having a
height in excess of three feet (3') above the elevation of the lowest point of
the crown of the adjacent roadway shall be maintained in a triangle formed by
measuring from the point of intersection of the front and exterior side lot
lines a distance of thirty feet (30') along such front and side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a right triangle on the area of
the lot adjacent to the street intersection.
   F.   Private Garages:
      1.   An attached or detached private garage which faces on a street shall
not be located closer than twenty five feet (25') to the street easement line.
      2.   A private garage located in an R residential zone shall not be used
for storage of more than one commercial vehicle which does not exceed one and
one-half (11/2) tons' rated capacity per family living on the premises. No more
than two (2) spaces shall be rented to persons not residing on the premises for
storage of noncommercial passenger vehicles only. (2000 Code § 12-362)
12-2C-3: HEIGHT RULES:
   A.   Scope Of Regulations: The regulations herein set forth, qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the specific district regulations appearing in
this chapter and chapter 3 of this title.
   B.   Measuring Heights: In measuring heights, a habitable basement or attic
shall be counted as a story; provided, that a story in a sloping roof, the area
of which story at a height of four feet (4') above the floor, does not exceed
two-thirds (2/3) of the floor area of the story immediately below it and which
does not contain an independent apartment, shall be counted as a half story.
   C.   Projections: Chimneys, elevators, poles, spires, tanks, towers and
other projections not used for human occupancy may extend above the height
limit.
   D.   Churches, Schools, Public Buildings: Churches, schools, hospitals,
sanatoriums and other public and semipublic buildings may exceed the height
limitation of the district if the minimum depth of rear yards and the minimum
width of the side yards required in the district are increased one foot (1')
for each two feet (2') by which the height of such public or semipublic
structure exceeds the prescribed height limit.
   E.   Utility Lines: Utility lines, when crossing public rights of way or
easements, shall maintain a minimum clearance of seventeen feet (17') measured
at the crown of the roadway. (2000 Code § 12-363)
12-2C-4: BUILDING GROUPS:
   In approving building groups planned as a unit such as shopping centers,
industrial parks, schools, civic centers, churches or housing projects
consisting of a group of two (2) or more buildings to be constructed on a plot
of ground of at least two (2) acres not subdivided into the customary streets
and lots, and which will not be so subdivided, or where the existing or
contemplated street and lot layout makes it impracticable to apply the
requirements of this title to the individual buildings in such project, the
application of such requirements to such project shall be done by the city
council upon recommendations of the planning commission in a manner that will
be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood, will ensure a density of
land use no higher and a standard of open space at least as high as required by
this chapter and chapter 3 of this title in the district in which the proposed
project is to be located. In no case shall a use or building height or density
of population be permitted which is less than the requirement of the district
in which the housing project is to be located. (2000 Code § 12-364; amd. Ord.
1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-2C-5: ANIMALS 1 :
   Animals and fowl in any district shall be kept only in accordance with city
ordinances and codes. (2000 Code § 12-365)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4 of this code.
12-2C-6: STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES:
   The use of land or buildings for the commercial wholesale or retail storage
of liquefied petroleum gases shall be in accordance with the codes and
ordinances of the city and the regulations of the liquefied petroleum gas
administration of the state. (2000 Code § 12-366)
12-2C-7: CONTAINERS REGULATED:
   A.   Shipping Containers: Unless expressly designated as a conditional use,
the placement, storage and use of shipping containers shall be prohibited.
   B.   Temporary Portable Storage Containers: Temporary portable storage
containers for the purpose of moving and storage of residential household goods
are allowed for a period not to exceed ten (10) days. (Ord. 1056, 11-13-2007)
12-2C-8: TRASH RECEPTACLES REQUIRED:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this article, a "drive-in restaurant" shall
be defined as any establishment whose principal business is the sale of foods,
frozen desserts or beverages which are served directly to the customer in a
motor vehicle either by an individual, through a service window, or any other
means which eliminates the need for the customer to exit the motor vehicle.
   B.   Trash Receptacles:
      1.   All persons owning, operating or in charge of a drive-in restaurant
as defined above shall provide the premises with a minimum of two (2) waste
receptacles.
         a.   Drive Through Windows: The containers shall be placed so that
patrons utilizing the drive through lanes may deposit waste or unwanted
materials in the containers, without leaving their vehicles, immediately after
the pick-up window(s).
         b.   Drive-in Restaurants/beverage shops: The containers shall be
placed so patrons of said restaurant can leave their respective parking space
and utilize a trash container from their vehicle before leaving the premises.
      2.   All such receptacles provided for use of patrons shall be
manufactured of plastic or metal, constructed in such manner so that trash
deposited therein will not escape, and shall be fixed with hinged or swinging
covers at the top, or a side door in which to slide a waste container to and
from the receptacle for access to can liners. Receptacles shall be secured in a
manner that the container cannot be removed or relocated by third parties.
      3.   All persons owning, operating or in charge of a drive-in restaurant
as defined in Section 12-2C-8A, shall ensure that waste receptacles placed on
the premises are not allowed to overflow resulting in littering the premises or
surrounding areas. Trash receptacles shall be outfitted with removable liners,
and changed on a regular basis as to not attract pests, animals or other public
or private nuisances.
      4.   Violation, penalty: Any person, firm or other entity who violates or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of said chapters of this title
shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. 1130, 4-12-2011; amd. Ord. 1292, 8-8-2023)
ARTICLE D. OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
12-2D-1: General Rules
12-2D-2: Required Open Space
12-2D-3: Parking Lot Location
12-2D-4: Land Ownership
12-2D-5: Parking Space Size
12-2D-6: Number Of Spaces Required
12-2D-7: Parking Surface In Commercial Districts
12-2D-8: Lots In Residential Districts
12-2D-1: GENERAL RULES:
   It is the intent of these requirements that adequate parking and loading
facilities be provided off the street for each use of land within the city.
Requirements are intended to be based on the demand created by each use. These
requirements shall apply to all uses in all districts. (2000 Code § 12-371)
12-2D-2: REQUIRED OPEN SPACE:
   A.   General Requirement: Off street parking or loading space shall be a
part of the required open space associated with the permitted use and shall not
be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
   B.   Uncovered Parking Area: The area required for off street parking shall
be in addition to the yard areas herein required, except that the front yard
required in a C-1 neighborhood commercial district or an I-2 restricted light
industrial district may be used for uncovered parking area, and the front yard
of a residential district may be used for the uncovered parking area for four
(4) or less vehicles associated with a residential use when the area is
surfaced with a pavement adequate to prevent the occurrence of mud and dust
with continued use, and may be used for uncovered parking area for more than
four (4) vehicles in accordance with the provisions of section 12-2D-7 of this
article. (2000 Code § 12-372)
12-2D-3: PARKING LOT LOCATION:
   The off street parking lot shall be located within two hundred feet (200'),
exclusive of street and alley widths, of the principal use and shall have
direct access to a street or alley. (2000 Code § 12-373)
12-2D-4: LAND OWNERSHIP:
   The ownership of land upon which the off street parking is provided shall be
the same as the ownership of land on which the principal use is located. (2000
Code § 12-374)
12-2D-5: PARKING SPACE SIZE:
   The size of a parking space for one vehicle shall consist of a rectangular
area having dimensions outlined in section 12-2A-3, definition of "parking
space", of this chapter. (Ord. 998, 8-23-2005; amd. Ord. 1174, 5-12-2015)
12-2D-6: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
   Off street parking facilities shall be provided in all districts. For uses
not specifically covered, the director of community services shall make a
determination of the parking demand to be created by the proposed use, and the
amount of parking thus determined shall be the off street parking requirements
for the permitted use. This decision can be appealed to the planning commission
and the city council.
   AMOUNT OF OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED
Uses   Parking Spaces
Uses                                Parking Spaces
                                        1 per 600 square feet of floor area,
Agricultural implements                 plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of open
                                        air display storage or service area
Airport                                 1 per each 400 square feet of enclosed
                                        passenger terminal area
Antique and furniture store             1 per 300 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Aquarium, art gallery, museum,          1 per 700 square feet of gross floor
planetarium and cultural facility       area
Auction                                 1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Automobile rental                       1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
                                        1 per 600 square feet of gross floor
Automobile sales, service               area, plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of
                                        outside storage
                                        1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
Automotive and equipment repair, heavy  area, plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of
                                        outside storage
Bar - club                              1 per 150 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Bowling alley                           3 per each lane, plus 1 per each
                                        employee
                                        1 per 600 square feet of gross floor
Camper sales and service                area, plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of
                                        outside storage, or service area
Care home, nursing                      1 per each 5 beds, plus 1 for each
                                        employee
Children's nursery                      1 per each 8 children, plus 1 for each
                                        employee
Church, temples, synagogues             1 per 4 seats in chapel
                                        1 per 500 square feet of classroom, 1
College, university                     per 4 dorm beds, plus 1 per 4 stadium
                                        seats
Commercial amusement establishments     1 per 300 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Commercial recreation facilities        1 per 300 square feet of building or
                                        site area
Community center                        1 per 400 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Daycare center                          1 per each 6 children, plus 1 per
                                        employee
Drive-in restaurant                     1 per 200 square feet, minimum of 12
Duplex dwelling                         2 per dwelling unit
Eating places, fast food                1 per 150 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Eating places, sit down                 1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Family daycare home                     1 per each 5 children, plus 1 per
                                        employee
Foster homes                            1 per sleeping room
Fraternity or sorority house            1 per each 2 beds
                                        1 per 40 square feet of assembly floor
Funeral homes                           area, plus 1 per 300 square feet of
                                        other floor area
Golf course                             5 per green, plus 1 per 300 square feet
                                        of club gross floor area
Golf driving range                      1 per each tee, plus 1 per employee
Golf, miniature                         2 spaces per 3 holes
Group home                              1 per sleeping unit
Group residential                       1 per 2 occupants
Halfway house                           1 per 400 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
                                        1 per bed, plus 1 per 500 square feet
Hospital                                of gross floor area of emergency and
                                        outpatient care, plus 1 per employee
                                        1 per sleeping room, plus 1 per 200
Hotel                                   square feet of accessory area including
                                        restaurant and club
                                        1 space per employee based on maximum
Industrial                              employment, plus adequate spaces for
                                        customer parking, loading and unloading
                                        1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
Lumberyards                             area, plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of
                                        open display area
Medical clinics and laboratories        5 per each doctor; 1 per 250 square
                                        feet of gross floor area
Mobile home                             2 per each mobile home site
                                        1 per 600 square feet of gross floor
Mobile home sales                       area, plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of
                                        storage and service area
                                        1 per sleeping room, plus 1 per 200
Motel                                   square feet of accessory area including
                                        restaurant and club
                                        1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
Motorcycle sales                        area, plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of
                                        storage and service area
Multi-family dwelling                   1.5 per efficiency or 1 bedroom
                                        dwelling unit; 2 per 2 or more bedrooms
Office and studios                      1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Private club                            1 per 300 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
                                        1 per 4 stadium seats, plus 1 per 500
Public park                             square feet of community center or
                                        recreation building, plus 1 per 300
                                        square feet of pool area
Retail establishments                   1 per 225 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Rooming/boarding house                  1 per 2 beds
Sanitarium                              1 per 600 square feet of gross floor
                                        area, plus 1 per each employee
Schools:                                1 per 10 classroom seats
Elementary, Jr. high                    1 per 3.5 classroom seats
High school                             1 per 2 classroom seats
Vo-tech
Service establishments                  1 per 400 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Shopping center                         5 per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                        leasable area
Single-family detached dwelling         2 per dwelling unit
Skating rink                            1 per 300 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Swimming pool                           1 per 150 square feet of pool area
Three-/four-family residential          2 per dwelling unit
Townhouses                              1.5 per efficiency or 1 bedroom; 2 per
                                        2 and 3 bedroom
Trade establishments                    1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
                                        1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
Truck sales                             area, plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of
                                        storage and service area
Two-family residential                  2 per dwelling unit
Uses providing spectator seating such   1 per 4 seats
as stadiums, arenas, rodeo grounds
                                        1 per 400 square feet of gross floor
Vehicle repair                          area, plus 1 per 800 square feet of
                                        storage
Warehousing, storage, wholesaling and   1 per 2,000 square feet of gross floor
trucking                                area
 
   Notes:
   1.    For mixed uses containing any combination of retail, office,
manufacturing and industrial, or warehousing activity, parking requirements
shall be tabulated separately for each use within the development using the
list of specific standards. When types of uses are not known at the time of
development, the Director of Community Services shall make the determination as
to the type of parking, i.e., retail, which will be required. Mixed uses
regulated under separate parking requirements shall not be combined to achieve
a larger square footage total than would result in a reduced parking
requirement. Where any part of a mixed use is converted to another use
category, then the parking requirement shall be recalculated based on the new
square footage figure.
   2.    Where a manufacturing and industrial use has more than 1 working shift
of employees, parking facilities shall be adequate to accommodate overlap
requirements during transition period.
   3.   Where a multiple purpose retail or industrial building is proposed to
be occupied by a use which can be demonstrated by the occupant to require less
parking than the standards contained herein, the Director of Community Services
may permit paving of a smaller parking area to meet the established need;
provided, however, that the balance of the land required by these regulations
shall be held in reserve as an unpaved area to meet future needs generated by
an expansion of the business or change in land use.
(Ord. 932, 10-10-2000; amd. Ord. 1221, 6-12-2018)
12-2D-7: PARKING SURFACE IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
   All of the lot used for the parking of vehicles, for the storage and display
of merchandise, and all driveways used for vehicle ingress and egress in C-1,
C-2 and C-3 Zoned Districts shall be paved with a sealed surface pavement
(asphalt or concrete) and maintained in such a manner that no dust will be
produced by continued use. In addition, small businesses in C-1, C-2 and C-
3 Zoned Districts may use limestone rock (top layer must be limestone
screenings) for parking lot surface in sufficient quantity to prevent tracking
or washing of mud and clay onto public roadways and maintained in such a manner
that no dust will be produced by continued use. (Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-
10-2008)
12-2D-8: LOTS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   Whenever off street parking lots for more than four (4) vehicles are to be
located within or adjacent to a Residential District, the following provisions
shall apply:
   A.   Fencing Of Sides Of Lots: All sides of the lot abutting the Residential
District shall be enclosed with an opaque ornamental fence, wall or dense
evergreen hedge having a height of not less than five feet (5') nor more than
six feet (6'). Such fence, wall or hedge shall be maintained in good condition.
   B.   Front Yard Setback; Sight Triangle: No parking shall be permitted
within a front yard setback line established ten feet (10') back of the
property line of interior and corner lots wherever the parking lot is located
in a Residential District or immediately abuts the front yard of a residential
unit. In all other cases, no setback shall be required; provided, however, that
on any corner lot formed by two (2) intersecting streets, no parking shall be
permitted, and no wall, fence, sign, structure or plant growth having a height
in excess of three feet (3') above the elevation of the crown of the adjacent
roadway surface shall be maintained in a triangle formed by measuring a
distance of thirty feet (30') along the front and side lot lines from their
point of intersection and connecting the points so established to form a
triangle on the area of the lot adjacent to the street intersection.
   C.   Landscaping: All yards shall be landscaped with grass, shrubs and
evergreen ground cover and maintained in good condition the year round.
   D.   Paving: All of the lot used for parking and driveway purposes shall be
paved with a sealed surface pavement and maintained in such a manner that no
dust will be produced by continued use.
   E.   Driveways: Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be confined to
and shall not exceed twenty five feet (25') in width, exclusive of curb
returns.
   F.   Light And Reflectors: The intensity of light and arrangement of
reflectors shall be such as not to interfere with Residential District uses.
   G.   Signs: No sign of any kind shall be erected except information signs
used to guide traffic and to state the conditions and terms of the use of the
lot. Only nonintermittent incandescent lighting of signs shall be permitted.
(2000 Code § 12-377)
ARTICLE E. FENCES
SECTION:
12-2E-1: Fences In General
12-2E-2: Front Yard Fences
12-2E-3: Side And Rear Yard Fences
12-2E-4: Violations And Appeals
12-2E-1: FENCES IN GENERAL
   A.   Definitions:
 
                          A "front yard fence" shall be defined as a fence
                          located within the required front yard setback area
                          for all structures, or in front of the front wall of
FRONT YARD FENCE:         the main building on the site. Such fence shall be
                          considered as a structure and shall be subject to the
                          regulation of structures in chapters 2 and 3 of this
                          title and the building code.
                          A "side and rear yard fence" shall be defined as a
SIDE AND BACK YARD FENCE: fence located behind the front wall of the main
                          structure on the site.
 
   B.   Permit Requirements: Fences shall be permitted subject to the permit
requirements of the city.
   C.   Permit Fee: A permit fee in the amount established by ordinance shall
be required.
   D.   Restrictive Privately Enforced Regulations: Regardless of the fence
regulations contained herein, the property owner is advised that there may be
more restrictive privately enforced regulations in the form of plat
restrictions, declarations of covenants and restrictions relating to
architectural controls, deed restrictions, or platted setback lines which may
further limit the construction of a fence on a particular parcel of real
estate.
   E.   Materials used: Regardless of the type of fence to be erected, all
fences shall not be constructed of recycled materials. New materials shall only
be used, unless first approved by the Building Inspector as to the useful life
of the materials and the aesthetics of the surrounding neighborhood or
subdivision.
   F.   Review Of Application: The Director of Community Development shall
review an application for a fence and ensure that the conditions and
requirements contained herein are satisfied before granting approval of said
application. Prior to such approval, the fire department shall review and
comment on the fence, if appropriate.
(Ord. 1293, 8-8-2023)
12-2E-2: FRONT YARD FENCES:
   A.   Definition: A "front yard fence" shall be defined as a fence located
within the required front yard setback area for all structures, or in front of
the front wall of the main building on the site. Such fence shall be considered
as a structure and shall be subject to the regulation of structures in chapters
2 and 3 of this title and the building code. (2000 Code § 12-391)
   B.   Conditions And Requirements: A front yard fence shall be permitted
subject to the following conditions and requirements:
      1.   Permit Fee: A permit fee in the amount established by ordinance
shall be required.
      2.   Restrictive Privately Enforced Regulations: Regardless of the fence
regulations contained herein, the property owner is advised that there may be
more restrictive privately enforced regulations in the form of plat
restrictions, declarations of covenants and restrictions relating to
architectural controls, deed restrictions, or platted setback lines which may
further limit the construction of a fence on a parcel.
      3.   Review Of Application: The director of community services shall
review an application for a front yard fence and ensure that the conditions and
requirements contained herein are satisfied before granting approval of said
application. Prior to such approval, the fire department shall review and
comment on the fence, if appropriate.
      4.   Fence Type And Material: A front yard fence shall be see through and
not exceed four feet (4') in height. Barbed, hog or chicken wire, field fence,
single strand fences or T-posts shall not be used except in the agricultural or
industrial zoning districts. Only chainlink, decorative wrought iron, picket
and split rail fencing shall be permitted. The director of community services
may approve a retaining wall to solve drainage or topographical problems.
      5.   Decorative And Wrought Iron Fences: The director of community
services may approve a decorative wrought iron fence not to exceed six feet
(6') in height. All wrought iron fences shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
         a.   Site plans and elevations of the fence shall be submitted for
permit review. The proposed fence shall not pose a safety or visibility hazard.
         b.   The fence shall be made of decorative wrought iron, galvanized
steel, aluminum, or similar material having the appearance of decorative
wrought iron.
         c.   Maximum picket width shall not exceed one inch (1") square.
         d.   Minimum separation of pickets shall not be less than two and one-
half inches (21/2") for the first four feet (4') in height of the fence and
shall not be less than six inches (6") above the first four feet (4') in height
of the fence.
         e.   Spiked caps or spears shall not be used on pickets under five and
one-half feet (51/2') in height. The height of the fence with spiked caps shall
not exceed six feet (6').
      6.   Picket Fences: For picket fencing, the maximum width of the pickets
shall be two and one-half inches (21/2") and the minimum separation of the
pickets shall be two and one-half inches (21/2").
      7.   Gateway: A front yard fence greater than fifty feet (50') from a
residence or structure shall be equipped with a gateway having at least sixteen
feet (16') of clear width. The fire department must approve any gate and all
locking devices installed in the gateway.
      8.   Distance From Street Right Of Way Lines: No front yard fence shall
be erected within twenty five feet (25') of the intersection of right of way
lines of any public or private street.
      9.   Traffic, View Obstruction: A front yard fence shall not cause a view
obstruction for any private driveway and shall not in any case be erected
within twelve feet (12') of the intersection of any private driveway and the
pavement edge or maintained portion of a public or private street.
      10.   Maintenance: A front yard fence shall be kept in an attractive
state, in good repair, and in a safe and sanitary condition at all times by the
property owner.
      11.   Obstructing Walkway: A front yard fence shall not obstruct any
public walkway even if said public walkway is on private property.
(2000 Code § 12-391; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-2E-3: SIDE AND REAR YARD FENCES:
   A.   Conditions and Requirements:
      1.   Utility Easements: A fence may be erected within any utility
easement, but is subject to removal by any franchised utility company whenever
installation or repair of their facilities is required. Such fence shall be
replaced at the expense of the property owner.
      2.   Height: Fences may not exceed eight feet (8') in height, unless the
written consent of the abutting property owner is secured, or the board of
adjustment approves the height, location, and materials as a special exception.
      3.   Maintenance: Fences shall be kept in an attractive state, in good
repair, and in a safe and sanitary condition at all times by the property
owner.
      4.   Traffic, View Obstruction: A side or back yard fence shall not cause
a view obstruction for any roadway or private driveway and shall not in any
case be erected within twelve feet (12') of the intersection of any roadway or
private driveway and the pavement edge or maintained portion of a public or
private street.
      5.   Setback: A twenty-five foot (25') setback requirement shall apply to
all solid/stockade type fences on corner lots. A fifteen-foot (15') setback may
be allowed at the discretion of the Community Development Director.
   B.   Types of Side and Back Yard Fences:
      1.   Brick/Masonry Fences, Retaining Walls: Walls of brick or masonry
material which require a permanent foundation may not be constructed within any
designated utility easement without the written consent of all affected utility
franchise holders. Upon consent, the Director of Community Development may
approve a brick or masonry fence, retaining wall or other approved design to
solve drainage or topographical problems.
      2.   Metal Fences: Metal fence panels shall be constructed of siliconized
polyester baked enamel or equivalent. A fence may not be constructed of
corrugated fiberglass, corrugated metal, or unpainted sheet metal.
         a.   All exposed pipe and support steel must be painted and maintained
in good condition.
         b.   The smooth surface of a metal fence shall face the adjoining
street. Side and rear yard fencing surfaces are at the discretion of the
property owner. Corner lots shall have smooth surfaces facing both streets.
         c.   The top of steel panels shall be capped. No screws shall protrude
from any portion of a fence.
   3.   Wood Fences: Stockade fences (no plywood allowed) shall have the smooth
surface of the fence facing any adjoining street. Side and rear yard fencing
surfaces not facing a street are at the discretion of the property owner.
Corner lots shall have the smooth surface facing both streets. No nails, bolts,
or screws shall protrude past wood support structure.
   4.   Other Fence Materials: Barbed, hog or chicken wire, field fence, single
strand fences or T-posts shall not be used except in the agricultural or
industrial zoning districts. Front yard fence types are allowed.
   5.   Decorative And Wrought Iron Fences: The director of community
Development may approve a decorative wrought iron fence not to exceed six feet
(6') in height. All wrought iron fences shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      a.   Site plans and elevations of the fence shall be submitted for permit
review. The proposed fence shall not pose a safety or visibility hazard.
      b.   The fence shall be made of decorative wrought iron, galvanized
steel, aluminum, or similar material having the appearance of decorative
wrought iron.
      c.   Maximum picket width shall not exceed one inch (1") square.
      d.   Minimum separation of pickets shall not be less than two and one-
half inches (2-1/2") for the first four feet (4') in height of the fence and
shall not be less than six inches (6") above the first four feet (4') in height
of the fence.
      e.   Spiked caps or spears shall not be used on pickets under five and
one-half feet (5-1/2') in height. The height of the fence with spiked caps
shall not exceed six feet (6').
(2000 Code § 12-391; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008; Ord. 1293, 8-8-
2023)
12-2E-4: VIOLATIONS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Any person found violating any provision of this title or the codes
adopted shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of
this Code.
   B.   Any appeal from a conviction for a violation of this section shall be
in accordance with the provisions of state law.
   C.   An appeal to any interpretation of this article must be appealed to the
Seminole Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 1293, 8-8-2023)
ARTICLE F. RADIO, TELEVISION AND MICROWAVE COMMUNICATION TOWERS
SECTION:
12-2F-1: General Statement
12-2F-2: Definitions
12-2F-3: Use Allowed
12-2F-4: Permit And Approval Required; Fee
12-2F-5: Conditions For Approval
12-2F-6: Appeal
12-2F-1: GENERAL STATEMENT:
A radio, television or microwave communication tower, either commercial or
amateur, as defined herein, is allowed within the city limits pursuant to the
conditions and site restrictions set out in this article. (2000 Code § 12-392)
12-2F-2: DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   GUY TOWER: A steel lattice supported by guywires, so designed to support the
tower which holds one or more antennas and related equipment for wireless
communications.
   LATTICE TOWER: A steel lattice, self-supporting structure with no guy
support, so designed to support fixtures which hold one or more antennas and
related equipment for wireless communication transmission.
   MONOPOLE: A self-supporting pole type structure with no guywire support,
tapering from base to top and so designed to support fixtures which hold one or
more antennas and related equipment for wireless communication transmission.
(2000 Code § 12-392)
12-2F-3: USE ALLOWED:
   A.   Towers will be allowed in R-1, R-2 and R-3 districts with the approval
of a conditional use permit.
   B.   Towers will be allowed in the C-1, C-2 and C-3 districts with the
approval of a conditional use permit.
   C.   Towers will be allowed within the I-1, I-2 and I-3 zoning districts as
a permitted use. (2000 Code § 12-392)
12-2F-4: PERMIT AND APPROVAL REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Application For Permit; Approval:
      1.   All applicants for placement of towers must apply by application to
the city for said permit.
      2.   As part of the submittal application for a permit, the approval by
FAA and FCC on said tower shall be submitted as a part of a permit application.
(2000 Code § 12-392)
   B.   Permit Fee: The permit fee for each tower will be one dollar ($1.00)
per foot in height with a minimum fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The
permit fee for the building will be based upon seven cents ($0.07) a square
foot. (2000 Code § 12-392; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-2F-5: CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   Height: Maximum height of all towers shall not exceed one hundred
ninety nine feet (199').
   B.   Setback: All monopole towers shall maintain a setback one hundred
twenty percent (120%) of the tower height from the property line. All sectional
towers shall maintain a setback of eighty percent (80%) of the tower height
from the property line.
   C.   Equipment Buildings: Any unmanned equipment building shall not contain
more than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet of gross floor area and shall
not be more than twelve feet (12') in height.
   D.   Dish Size: Satellite and microwave dishes attached to a monopole shall
not exceed one meter (1 m) in diameter or two meters (2 m) in diameter if
attached to a lattice tower.
   E.   Fencing: A chainlink fence not less than seven feet (7') in height from
finished grade shall be installed around a transmission tower or monopole and
equipment building with access through a locked gate.
   F.   Equipment Storage: No equipment or parts shall be stored outside the
building.
   G.   Lights On Towers: Lights for illumination shall be determined by the
FAA and the city on all tower locations.
   H.   Advertising Or Signs: No commercial advertising or signage shall be
allowed on any tower. (2000 Code § 12-392)
   I.   Construction And Structural Load Standards: All towers shall meet the
minimum construction and structural load standards specified in the city's
adopted international building code, with the exception that basic design
windspeed shall be ninety (90) miles per hour without ice, and designed with
ice shall be for one-half inch (1/2") of radial ice. (2000 Code § 12-392; amd.
Ord. 942, 9-11-2001)
   J.   Distance From Occupied Structure: All towers must set back its height
distance from any structure that is being occupied.
   K.   Towers Affixed To Structures: Monopole and lattice towers are allowed
to be affixed to existing city or private structures as long as they meet all
other requirements. These towers are not to exceed twenty feet (20') above the
roofline or top of the existing structure. In no case shall the height of the
tower be located to fall beyond the edge of the roofline.
   L.   Abandoned Towers; Removal: Any tower that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned and the
owner of such antenna or tower shall remove same within ninety (90) days of
receipt of the notice from the city notifying the owner of such abandonment. If
not removed within ninety (90) days, the city may remove said tower at the
owner's expense.
   M.   Site Plan Showing Parking Spaces, Access Easement: A site plan shall be
submitted which shows parking spaces and access easement to the property line/
tower site.
   N.   Collocation On Existing Towers: The application should look at
collocation on an existing tower, and, if not feasible, indicate why it is not
feasible.
   O.   Approval Of Property Owner: Written approval from the property owner as
to placement of the tower must be shown.
   P.   As Built Plans: After installation of the tower, the owner must submit
as built plans to be kept on file.
   Q.   Certificate Of Design: The applicant must provide a certificate of
design by the design engineer as to compliance with the city code upon
completion of the tower. (2000 Code § 12-392)
   R.   Inspection: As part of the approval process, the owner must submit
annually to the community services office an inspection report on each tower as
to compliance with FCC and FAA standards. (2000 Code § 12-392; amd. Ord. 1075,
3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-2F-6: APPEAL:
   An appeal to any interpretation of this article must be appealed to the
Seminole board of adjustment. (2000 Code § 12-392)
ARTICLE G. STORMWATER AND EROSION CONTROL
SECTION:
12-2G-1: Definitions
12-2G-2: Developer Responsibilities
12-2G-3: Property Owner Responsibilities
12-2G-4: City Responsibilities
12-2G-5: Exemptions
12-2G-6: Appeals
12-2G-7: Warning And Disclaimer
12-2G-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The terms set forth in this article shall be given the meanings indicated
below unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:
   DEVELOPER: Any person, persons, corporation, or other entity who, in his or
her own behalf, or as an agent of another, engages in development, subdivision,
construction of structures, or alteration of land in preparation for
development, subdivision or construction.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any alteration of land for the purpose of achieving its
development, subdivision or change in use, including any preparation for
building of or erection of a structure or installation of paved surfaces,
grading, fill or other change in existing land contours. (Ord. 1086, 10-14-
2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
12-2G-2: DEVELOPER RESPONSIBILITIES:
   All development, redevelopment and earth changes shall be constructed so as
to not cause harm to other properties as a result of increasing the flow
(amount or velocity) of stormwater runoff. Developers shall prevent the erosion
of soil and movement of sedimentation into, onto or through streets, gutters,
catch basins, culverts, other drainage channels or property owned by others.
The city may require the developer to clean and/or repair streets, natural
drainage channels or natural features when damage is caused by erosion from
developer's property. Prior to commencing development, it shall be the
responsibility of any developer or owner to provide a drainage and erosion
control plan to appropriate city staff for approval. When deemed appropriate,
city staff may require said plan to be certified by a professional engineer.
   The responsibility of the developer (other than owner/developer) ends with
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the structure. (Ord. 1086, 10-
14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
12-2G-3: PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES:
   It shall be the responsibility of all owners of property, whether developed,
undeveloped or undergoing development to:
   A.   Mow and provide minor maintenance of drainage channels and their slopes
for that portion of the channel lying within their property lines;
   B.   Keep clear all drainage channels within the boundaries of their
properties; and
   C.   Take reasonable and prudent measures so as not to cause drainage
interferences, obstructions, blockages or any other adverse effects upon
drainage into, through or out of their property.
   D.   Not cause damage to property of another by causing water to flow over
adjoining property.
   E.   Assume all responsibility for stormwater drainage from the property
upon receipt of a certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 1086, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-
2008)
12-2G-4: CITY RESPONSIBILITIES:
   It shall be the responsibility of the city to:
   A.   Ensure that developer follows drainage plans prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy; and
   B.   Maintain drainageways not located on private property. (Ord. 1086, 10-
14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
12-2G-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   The following activities are specifically exempted from the requirements of
this article:
   A.   Home gardening or other minor clearing or excavation work not related
to a change in land use;
   B.   Emergency repairs necessary for the preservation of life, health or
property; and
   C.   Routine maintenance or repair work on public or private roads and
rights of way or utility easements and rights of way. (Ord. 1086, 10-14-2008,
eff. 10-14-2008)
12-2G-6: APPEALS:
   If any determination based upon provisions of this article is felt to be
unreasonable or inapplicable, a developer or property owner may appeal such
determination to the planning commission. Upon written request for the appeal
which shall include all justifications and reasons for that appeal, the
question will be heard at the next available meeting of the planning
commission. The report and recommendations of the commission shall then be
forwarded to the city council which may act to approve, deny or conditionally
approve the appeal. (Ord. 1086, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
12-2G-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER:
   The provisions of this article are considered reasonable and appropriate for
regulatory purposes with respect to provision of stormwater and drainage system
improvements and erosion control. This does not imply that compliance with the
provisions herein shall relieve any person or persons of any duty or
responsibility imposed by law; neither shall this section create liability on
the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any damages that
result from reliance on this article or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder. (Ord. 1086, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
ARTICLE H. WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
SECTION:
12-2H-1: Definitions
12-2H-2: Permit Application And Fee
12-2H-3: Standards, Rules And Regulations
12-2H-4: Abandonment Of Systems; Authority To Remove
12-2H-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS): Any device such as a wind charger,
windmill or wind turbine, which converts wind energy to a form of usable
energy. (Ord. 1089, 1-13-2009)
12-2H-2: PERMIT APPLICATION AND FEE:
   A.   Filing Of Application And Fee: Any person who desires to place, erect
or construct any WECS within the limits of the city shall make application to
the planning commission for review. Such application shall include the
following:
      1.   Property owner's name and address; applicant's name and address, if
different from property owner.
      2.   Permit application shall be accompanied by standard drawings of the
structural components of the WECS, including support structure, tower, base and
footings. Drawings and any necessary calculations shall be certified in writing
by a registered professional engineer to show that the system complies with the
adopted building code. (Certification would normally be supplied by the
manufacturer.) Where structural components or installation vary from the
standard design or specification, proposed modifications shall be certified by
a registered professional engineer for compliance with the structural design
provisions of the adopted building code.
      3.   Permit application shall be accompanied by a line drawing
identifying the electrical components of the system to be installed, in
sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the manner of installation
conforms to the adopted electrical code. The application shall include a
statement from a registered professional engineer indicating that the
electrical system conforms with good engineering practices and complies with
said electrical code. (This certification would normally be supplied by the
manufacturers.) All equipment and materials shall be used or installed in
accordance with such drawings and diagrams. Where the electrical components of
an installation vary from the standard design or specifications, proposed
modifications shall be reviewed and certified by a registered professional
engineer for compliance with requirements of said electrical code and good
engineering practices.
      4.   A plot plan showing property lines, easements, setback lines and the
location and size of all existing structures on the property.
      5.   The proposed location of the WECS tower and all guywires on the
subject property and their distance from all property lines.
      6.   The overall diameter of the blade to be utilized and the distance
between the hub of the tower to ground level at the base of the tower.
      7.   Such application shall be accompanied by a fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Hearings And Notification: The city planning commission shall hold one
or more public hearings thereon. At least fifteen (15) days in advance, all
owners of property located within two hundred feet (200') of the property shall
be notified in writing of the purpose, time and place of said hearings. At
least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in an official newspaper or newspaper of general circulation in the
city.
   C.   Report To Council: The planning commission shall, within forty five
(45) days of the date of application, transmit to the city council its report
as to the effect of such proposed WECS upon the character of the neighborhood
and other matters pertaining to the general welfare of the community, and the
recommendation of the planning commission concerning the application.
Thereupon, the city council may authorize or deny the issuance of a permit as
requested. (Ord. 1089, 1-13-2009)
12-2H-3: STANDARDS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Standards, rules and regulations adopted for the purpose of
implementing this article are as follows:
      1.   Lot area shall be a minimum of two and one-half (21/2) acres.
      2.   The general requirements of the international building code and
national electrical code, as adopted, shall govern the construction of WECS
structures, and the owner/operator shall comply with good operating practices.
      3.   All structural elements shall meet or exceed a designated wind load
velocity of one hundred twenty (120) miles per hour, and all WECSs shall be
equipped with manual and automatic overspeed controls. The WECS owner/operator
shall comply with federal aviation administration notification requirements and
any other applicable regulations.
      4.   WECS towers that are capable of being climbed shall be enclosed by a
locked protective fence at least six feet (6') high, and other types of towers
shall be unclimbable by design for the first twelve feet (12').
      5.   The WECS tower as measured from the base thereof to its highest
point, to include height added by any blade in a vertical position, shall be
set back from any structure and all property lines a distance equal to one
hundred twenty percent (120%) of the total height of the tower.
      6.   The lowest point of the rotor blade arcs of a WECS shall be a
minimum of twenty feet (20') above the ground. All WECSs in residential
districts shall have rotors that are not longer than eighteen feet (18') or
thirty six feet (36') in diameter, and in other districts shall have rotors
that are not longer than forty feet (40') or eighty feet (80') in diameter.
      7.   When a WECS located within a commercial or industrial district abuts
a residential district, the height of the WECS shall not exceed a maximum of
one hundred feet (100') and no rotor shall exceed eighteen feet (18') in length
or thirty six feet (36') in diameter; otherwise, provisions within the article
shall apply.
      8.   WECSs on top of buildings shall be designed and constructed in
conformance with good engineering practices and certified by a state
professional engineer that the WECS is in compliance with good engineering
practices. The WECS owner/operator shall comply with all federal and state
regulations, including FCC regulations.
      9.   Noise level of WECS, measured at the property line, shall not exceed
fifty five (55) dBA at a wind speed of not less than twenty five (25) miles per
hour.
      10.   No part of the WECS, including the tower, anchors and guywires,
shall be located within or over drainage, utility or other established
easements, and shall be allowed only in rear yards of residential districts.
      11.   Anchor points of guywires supporting a WECS structure shall be
enclosed by a six foot (6') high fence or shall be located within the confines
of a yard which is completely fenced.
      12.   At least one sign shall be posted at the base of the WECS tower and
shall contain a warning of high voltage, an emergency telephone number and
emergency shutdown procedures.
      13.   No electromagnetic interference may be caused beyond the boundaries
of the property in which the system is located.
   B.   The provisions set forth in this section shall be considered minimum
requirements and shall not relieve any person from any duty imposed by law to
use reasonable care and take reasonable precautions for the safeguarding of
people and the protection of and noninterference of property rights. (Ord.
1089, 1-13-2009)
12-2H-4: ABANDONMENT OF SYSTEMS; AUTHORITY TO REMOVE:
   Upon abandonment of a WECS or if it is in an operational condition which
poses a potential safety hazard or is in violation of local, state or federal
regulations, the owner/operator shall take expeditious action to remedy the
situation. The city reserves the authority to abate any hazardous situation. If
the hazardous condition or violation of regulations cannot be corrected with a
reasonable amount of effort, then the city reserves the right to revoke the
WECS permit and remove the system. The cost of removing the WECS shall be
passed on to the owner/operator. If the city determines that the WECS has not
been used for twelve (12) successive months, the WECS shall be considered
abandoned. Abandoned WECS shall be removed within thirty (30) days of written
notice to the owner/operator of the system. (Ord. 1089, 1-13-2009)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-3A-1: R1-Z Single-Family District
12-3A-2: R-1 One-Family Dwelling District
12-3A-2-1: R-1A Affordable Dwelling District
12-3A-3: R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District
12-3A-4: R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District
12-3A-5: R-4 Townhouse Dwelling District
12-3A-1: R1-Z SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: Within the R1-Z Single-Family Residential Zoning District, a
zero lot line development is allowed. The intent of the R1-Z, Zero Lot Line
Residential District is to permit and establish regulations for comprehensively
planned single-family tracts with zero side yard building setbacks (in R1-
Z Zoned Districts only). The principal purposes of the zero lot line concept
are: 1) the more efficient use of land, as compared with the typical single-
family development, making available needed housing at an affordable cost; 2)
the design of dwellings to integrate and relate internal/external living areas
resulting in more pleasant and enjoyable living facilities; and 3) by placing
the dwelling against one of the property lines, permitting the outdoor space to
be grouped and utilized to its maximum benefit. (2000 Code § 12-213)
   B.   Uses Permitted:
      •   Attached single-family dwellings (a maximum of 2 attached units).
      •   Detached, zero lot line, one-family dwellings.
      •   Infill housing with a minimum of two (2) side by side lots; provided,
that the zero lot line side is not facing the adjacent nonzero lot line
property. (2000 Code § 12-214)
   C.   General Regulations: Property and buildings in the R1-Z District shall
be subject to the following area regulations:
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be four thousand
(4,000) square feet. This shall not include any credit for streets,
recreational arm, common open space or water bodies.
      2.   Dwelling Unit Setback:
         a.   Interior Side Yard: The dwelling unit may be placed on one
interior side property line with a zero foot (0') setback and the dwelling unit
setback on the other interior side property line shall be a minimum of ten feet
(10'), excluding the connecting elements such as fences, walls and trellises.
Covered porches, covered patios, and storage spaces which are connected to the
principal structure may not encroach into this ten foot (10') side yard.
         b.   Front Setback: All habitable parts of a dwelling must be set back
a minimum of twenty feet (20') from the front property line, while garages may
be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') based upon the approval by the Planning
Commission and its approval of the site plan. Garage setbacks of less than
twenty feet (20') must have an entrance parallel to the street or be approved
by the Planning Commission as part of the site plan review process. An adequate
driveway turning radius shall be provided for the structure.
         c.   Rear Setback: The dwelling setback shall be a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') from the rear property line. When a garage is located in the rear of
the property, the rear setback shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20').
         d.   Side Street Setback: When a zero lot line borders a City street
on one side, the dwelling setback shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from
the property line on the street side.
      3.   Minimum Lot Width: The minimum lot width shall be forty feet (40').
      4.   Minimum Lot Coverage Permitted: The total lot coverage permitted for
all buildings on the site shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of the lot area
(140 x 40 = 5,600 = 3,360 square foot house). Temporary storage structures are
not included in this coverage percentage.
      5.   Building Height: No building shall exceed two (2) stories or thirty
five feet (35') in height. Upper story windows shall not face onto an adjacent
property owner's private space, or toward the zero lot line side.
      6.   Street Frontage: Each lot shall abut upon a clear, direct frontage
of a dedicated city street. The zero lot line must abut upon the street line
for a distance of not less than thirty feet (30').
      7.   Platting Requirements: Each dwelling shall be located on its own
individual platted lot. If areas for common use of occupants of the development
are shown on the plat, satisfactory arrangements shall be made for the
maintenance of the common open space and facilities, in the form of a
neighborhood association. The plat shall indicate the zero lot lines and
easements appurtenant thereto.
      8.   Openings Prohibited On Zero Lot Line Side: The wall of the dwelling
located on the zero lot line side must be constructed of maintenance free,
solid decorative masonry and have no openings.
      9.   Projections Over Property Line: The structure shall be offset in
such a manner that eaves, overhangs, or any architectural features shall not
encroach on the adjoining lot. All yard areas on the zero lot line side, part
of which may result due to the placement of the foundation off the property
line to accommodate roof overhangs and/or architectural elements, shall be used
by the adjoining property owner. No yard area created due to this section
forbidding dwelling or architectural features to project over any property line
shall be fenced by the property owner but shall be reserved for use by the
adjoining property owner. Any adjoining property owner may fence in an area up
to the zero lot line of the adjacent lot in order to contain his side yard.
      10.   Maintenance Easement: A perpetual five foot (5') maintenance
easement shall be provided on the lot adjacent to the zero lot property line,
which, with the exception of walls and/or fences, shall be kept clear of
structures. This easement shall be shown on the plat and incorporated into each
deed transferring title to the property. The wall shall be maintained in its
original color and treatment unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the two
(2) affected lot owners. The roof shall be so designed that water runoff from
the dwellings placed on the zero lot line drains onto the owner's property.
      11.   Utility Easement: Due to the increased densities and compactness of
zero lot line developments, the location of utilities constitutes special
consideration. In order to ensure adequate access to maintain utilities, it is
necessary to place utilities in the front yard easement, street, or
combination. However, a rear yard utility easement is allowed when a rear drive
or rear open space easement is provided.
      12.   Off Street Parking: A minimum of two (2) paved off street parking
spaces shall be provided on each platted zero lot line lot.
      13.   Accessory Buildings And Structures:
         a.   Accessory buildings and structures shall be located within the
front yard or street abutting side yard.
         b.   No accessory building or structure shall be located within five
feet (5') of a dwelling or another accessory building nor within five feet (5')
of any property line.
         c.   No accessory building or structure shall exceed ten feet (10') in
height without approval from the zoning board of adjustment.
      14.   Trees: There shall be a minimum requirement of one tree for each
platted lot in order to enhance private space. In addition, street shade trees
shall be provided along each side of the roadways at a minimum spacing of forty
feet (40') in order to enhance the streetscape. This shall be in addition to
the one tree required for each platted lot. Placement shall be determined by
utility easement location.
      15.   Fire Protection: Walls on side yards shall have a minimum of one
hour rated sheetrock installed and roofs shall be of flame resistant material
and wooden, cedar shingle roofs are prohibited. (2000 Code § 12-215)
   D.   Preliminary Plat And Review Process: The city reserves the right to
request additional information in the preliminary plat review process. The
purpose of the additional information is to encourage logic, imagination,
innovation and variety in the design process and ensure the congruity of the
proposed development and its compatibility with the surrounding area. The
community services director shall review the plans for compliance with zoning
regulations and the plat review criteria. The recommendation of the community
services director shall be transmitted to the appropriate board for
consideration. (2000 Code § 12-216; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
      1.   Required Exhibits: The following exhibits shall be prepared by
design professionals such as architects, landscape architects and submitted to
the planning commission for consideration and approval along with the
preliminary plat:
         a.   Site Plan: The site plan shall show clearly the following items
and their relationship to the preliminary plat:
            (1)   A site plan showing all structures, driveway approaches,
sidewalks, rear yards, fencing, decorative treatments on each lot and/or within
the subdivision, existing and proposed landscaping including tree requirements.
The site plan shall be approved by the planning commission prior to approval of
the preliminary plat.
            (2)   Recreation facilities and common open space.
            (3)   Stages of development, if any.
            (4)   Location of off street parking and additional parking areas
serving the subdivision.
         b.   Floor Plans/Elevations: Floor plans and elevations of all typical
units shall accompany the site plan; visual and physical access to outside
patio/court areas shall be indicated; single- family attached dwellings shall
be specified as well.
      2.   Preliminary Plat Review Process: The following criteria shall be
utilized in the plat review process:
         a.   Site Plan: The planning commission shall review and approve each
zero lot line site plan prior to or concurrent with consideration of the
preliminary plat.
         b.   Review Materials And Criteria: The planning commission shall
utilize the following materials and criteria in reviewing the site plan, floor
plans/elevations and the preliminary plat. (2000 Code § 12-216)
            (1)   Planning Studies: Planning studies approved by the community
services director that include development patterns or environmental and other
criteria may be utilized in the review process. (2000 Code § 12-216; amd. Ord.
1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
            (2)   Definition Of Private Outdoor Living Area: The zero lot line
unit shall be designed to integrate interior and exterior living areas. The
configuration of the exterior wall of the unit shall define and enclose, or
partially enclose, outdoor living areas in order to be the usable space of each
resident adjacent to the zero lot line side.
            (3)   Visual Monotony: Visual monotony created by excessive block
lengths shall be avoided. The planning commission shall utilize current zoning
and subdivision regulations in making this determination and may base judgment
upon visual appearance of the development.
            (4)   Variations Encouraged: Staggered building lines, varying lot
widths and arrangements of structures in a manner other than perpendicular to
the street shall be encouraged. The planning commission may, upon approval of
the site plan, approve nontraditional building lines in an effort to encourage
visual clarity in the zero lot line development. But, in no case shall the
front yard setback requirement be violated.
            (5)   Landscaping: The existing landscape shall be preserved in its
natural state insofar as is practical by minimizing removal of existing trees
and vegetation. Landscape shall be used to shade and cool, direct wind
movements, enhance architectural features, relate structure design to the site,
visually screen incompatible uses, and ameliorate the impact of noise. The site
plan shall reflect existing and proposed landscaping.
            (6)   Buffers: Architectural and/or landscape elements that provide
a logical screen from adjoining, existing or permitted uses shall be provided.
            (7)   Energy Conservation: Design methods to reduce energy
consumption is encouraged. Energy conservation methods may include, but not be
limited to, natural ventilation of structures, siting of structures in relation
to prevailing breezes and sun angles, insulation of structures, and the use of
landscape materials for shade.
            (8)   Visual Access: Visual access shall be provided for the driver
of an automobile backing out of the individual lot into the adjacent roadway.
Dwelling units on corner lots shall be so situated and set back as to provide
unobstructed visual clearance at street intersections.
            (9)   Private Open Space: Open space intended for the private use
of each individual dwelling unit should be so located and designed as to
maximize its utility to the dwelling unit it serves and maximize its privacy,
especially in relation to adjacent dwelling units.
            (10)   Trash Containers: Trash containers shall be screened and so
designed as to be conveniently accessible to their users and collectors.
            (11)   Utility Boxes, Meters: Utility boxes, meters, etc., shall be
screened as desired by the developer to provide a pleasing visual image within
each zero lot line subdivision.
            (12)   Sidewalk Plan: A sidewalk plan shall be required on the site
plan with sufficient sidewalk area to facilitate movement within the
subdivision to provide a place for walking or playing. (2000 Code § 12-216)
   E.   Final Plat: The final plat on zero lot line subdivisions shall follow
the review and processing as required on final plats within the subdivision
regulations. (2000 Code § 12-217)
   F.   Commencement Of Development: If development is not commenced within
twenty four (24) months from the date of approval of the final plat, in
accordance with subdivision regulations, the approval hereof shall become null
and void and the same may not be developed in accordance with said plan;
provided, if development is permitted in stages, subsequent stages may be
commenced within eighteen (18) months after the completion of the previous
stage; otherwise, such subsequent stage may not be developed in accordance with
the previously approved plan and such approval shall be null and void.
Commencement of construction shall include, where necessary, substantial site
improvement which shall include, but is not limited to, active and continuous
road improvements, excavation, grading, leveling, installation of utilities,
and the like. After a twenty four (24) month period has expired and the
development has not begun, the applicant must have the plat reviewed by the
planning commission at no charge to the applicant. After five (5) years has
elapsed and the development has not been commenced, the plat shall not be
approved and a new plat consistent with development standards at that time must
be submitted to the planning commission for approval. (2000 Code § 12-218)
12-3A-2: R-1 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the R-1 one-family dwelling
district are a quiet, low density area for single-family living, with related
recreational, religious and educational facilities, protected from all
commercial and industrial activity. (2000 Code § 12-220)
   B.   General Uses: The general uses in the R-1 district are:
      •   Bulletin board or sign, not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in area
appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which board
or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or sold.
      •   Childcare centers.
      •   Nurseries, greenhouses, truck gardens; provided, that no products are
sold retail and delivered on the premises.
      •   Parks, playgrounds and open spaces.
      •   Public and parochial schools and colleges, not including industrial
trade schools.
      •   Public libraries.
      •   Single-family homes. (2000 Code § 12-221)
   C.   Accessory And Conditional Uses:
      1.   Accessory: The accessory uses in the R-1 district are other
accessory uses that are incidental to the permitted uses, and not detrimental
to the adjacent property or the character of the zone:
         •   Barns.
         •   Guesthouses and employees' quarters.
         •   Private garages.
         •   Sheds. (2000 Code § 12-222)
      2.   Conditional: The following uses may be permitted only if authorized
by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-9 of this
title and after the planning commission has approved the site plan: (2000 Code
§ 12-222; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
         •   Cemetery.
         •   Churches.
         •   Fire and police stations.
         •   Golf courses, except miniature and commercial driving range.
         •   Public buildings and uses of nonindustrial nature.
         •   Public open off street parking lot, when necessary, for services
of surrounding area.
         •   Radio, television and microwave communication towers.
         •   Utility substations. (2000 Code § 12-222)
   D.   Area Regulations: Area regulations in the R-1 district are:
      1.   Front Yard: All buildings shall be set back from street right of way
lines to comply with the following front yard requirements:
         a.   Minimum depth of front yard, twenty five feet (25').
         b.   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements
shall be provided on both streets.
         c.   If twenty five percent (25%) or more of the lots on one side of
the street between two (2) intersecting streets are improved with buildings,
all of which have observed an average setback line of no greater than twenty
five feet (25'), and building varies more than five feet (5') from this average
setback line, then no building shall be erected closer to the street line than
the minimum setback so established by the existing buildings, but this
regulation shall not require a front yard of greater depth than forty feet
(40').
      2.   Side Yard:
         a.   Minimum for one-story dwellings, five feet (5').
         b.   Minimum for more than one-story dwellings, ten feet (10').
         c.   Minimum for unattached building of accessory use, five feet (5').
(2000 Code § 12-223)
         d.   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots, twenty five feet
(25'). A side yard setback of fifteen feet (15') on a corner lot may be allowed
at the discretion of the community services director. (2000 Code § 12-223; amd.
Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
         e.   Minimum setback from all exterior and interior side lot lines for
churches and main and accessory buildings other than dwellings and buildings
accessory to dwellings, thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Rear Yard: Minimum rear yard, except where an alley is platted, ten
feet (10').
      4.   Lot Width: Minimum lot width at building line, sixty feet (60').
      5.   Intensity Of Use:
         a.   Minimum lot area is seven thousand (7,000) square feet.
         b.   Where a lot has less area than herein required and all the
boundary lines of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the initial
effective date hereof, that lot may be used for any of the uses, except
churches, permitted by this section.
         c.   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than
dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate
to provide the yard areas required by this section and the off street areas
required in chapter 2, article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-223)
         d.   Minimum space between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
fifteen feet (15'). Exceptions may be granted for placement of open metal
carports upon approval by the building inspector. (2000 Code § 12-223; amd.
Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
      6.   Coverage: Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
thirty percent (30%) of the lot area on interior and corner lots; accessory
buildings shall not cover more than twenty percent (20%) of the rear yard.
(Ord. 933, 12-14-2000)
      7.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in chapter 2,
article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-223)
   E.   Height Regulations: No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35') in height except as provided in chapter 2,
article C of this title. (2000 Code § 12-224)
12-3A-2-1: R-1A AFFORDABLE DWELLING DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the R-1A Affordable Dwelling
District are a quiet, medium density area for single- family living, located
within a plot of ground in which two (2) or more efficiency homes are located.
R-1A Districts shall be located and defined as deemed appropriate by the
Planning Commission upon application for the zone.
   B.   General Uses: The general uses in the R-1A District are:
      •   Bulletin board or sign, not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in area
appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or premises, which board
or sign shall be removed as soon as the premises are leased, hired or sold.
      •   Efficiency home village, where homes do not exceed seven hundred
fifty (750) square feet of living space, occupied for dwelling or sleeping
purposes, whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
      •   Parks, playgrounds and open spaces.
   C.   Accessory And Conditional Uses:
      1.   Accessory: The accessory uses in the R-1A District are other
accessory uses that are incidental to the permitted uses, and not detrimental
to the adjacent property or the character of the zone:
         •   Private garages.
         •   Sheds.
      2.   Conditional: The following uses may be permitted only if authorized
by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-9 of this
title and after the Planning Commission has approved the site plan:
         •   Public open off street parking lot, when necessary, for services
of surrounding area.
         •   Radio, television and microwave communication towers.
         •   Utility substations.
   D.   Area Regulations: Area regulations in the R-1A District are:
      1.   Front Yard: All buildings shall be set back from street right- of-
way lines to comply with the following front yard requirements:
         a.   All habitable parts of a dwelling must be set back a minimum of
twenty feet (20') from the front property line.
         b.   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements
shall be provided on both streets.
         c.   If twenty five percent (25%) or more of the lots on one side of
the street between two (2) intersecting streets are improved with buildings,
all of which have observed an average setback line of no greater than twenty
five feet (25'), and building varies more than five feet (5') from this average
setback line, then no building shall be erected closer to the street line than
the minimum setback so established by the existing buildings, but this
regulation shall not require a front yard of greater depth than forty feet
(40').
      2.   Side Yard:
         a.   Minimum for one-story dwellings, five feet (5').
         b.   Minimum for more than one-story dwellings, ten feet (10').
         c.   Minimum for unattached building of accessory use, five feet (5').
         d.   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots, twenty five feet
(25'). A side yard setback of fifteen feet (15') on a corner lot may be allowed
at the discretion of the Community Services Director.
         e.   Minimum setback from all exterior and interior side lot lines for
main and accessory buildings other than dwellings and buildings accessory to
dwellings, thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Rear Yard: Minimum rear yard, ten feet (10').
      4.   Minimum Lot Width: Minimum lot width shall allow at least fifteen
feet (15') either side of the main building.
      5.   Intensity Of Use:
         a.   Minimum lot area is at the discretion of the Planning Commission,
as it pertains to the plat of the efficiency village.
         b.   Minimum space between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
fifteen feet (15'). Exceptions may be granted for placement of open metal
carports upon approval by the building inspector.
      6.   Coverage: Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
sixty percent (60%) of the project area on interior and corner lots.
      7.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in chapter 2,
article D of this title.
      8.   Utility Easement: Due to the increase densities and compactness of
these developments, the location of utilities constitutes special
consideration. In order to ensure adequate access to maintain utilities, it is
necessary to place utilities in the front yard easement, street or combination.
However, a rear yard utility easement is allowed when a rear drive or rear open
space easement is provided.
   E.   Height Regulations: No dwelling shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35') in height except as provided in chapter 2,
article C of this title.
      1.   No accessory building or structure shall exceed ten feet (10') in
height. (Ord. 1225, 8-14-2018)
12-3A-3: R-2 TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the R-2 Two-Family Dwelling
District are quiet, slightly higher population density area for family living,
with basic restrictions similar to the R-1 District, protected from all
commercial and industrial activity. (2000 Code § 12-231)
   B.   General Uses: Property and buildings in an R-2 Two-Family Dwelling
District shall be used only for the following purposes:
      •   Any uses permitted in R-1 One-Family Dwelling District.
      •   Home occupations as limited in chapter 2 of this title 1 .
      •   Two-family homes. (2000 Code § 12-232)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses in the R-2 District are other accessory
uses that are incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the
adjacent property or the character of the zone:
      •   Guesthouses and employees' quarters.
      •   Private garages.
      •   Radio, television and microwave communications towers. (2000 Code §
12-233)
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be permitted only if
authorized by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-
9 of this title and after the Planning Commission has approved the site plan:
(2000 Code § 12-234; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
      •   All uses so limited for R-1 Districts in this article.
      •   Convalescent home, rest home and nursing home, limited to housing of
not more than five (5) persons in addition to the owner or manager and his
family.
      •   Home for the ambulatory aged.
      •   Mortuary. (2000 Code § 12-234)
   E.   Area Regulations: Area regulations in the R-2 District are:
      1.   Front Yard: All buildings shall be set back from street right- of-
way lines to comply with the following front yard requirements:
         a.   Minimum depth of front yard is twenty five feet (25').
         b.   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements
shall be provided on both streets.
         c.   If twenty five percent (25%) or more of the lots on one side of
the street between two (2) intersecting streets are improved with buildings,
all of which have observed an average setback line of greater than twenty five
feet (25') and no building varies more than five feet (5') from this average
setback line, then no building shall be erected closer to the street line than
the minimum setback so established by the existing buildings, but this
regulation shall not require a front yard of greater depth than forty feet
(40').
      2.   Side Yard:
         a.   Minimum for one-story dwellings located on interior lots is five
feet (5').
         b.   Minimum side yard for more than one-story dwellings and garage
apartments, except as provided in section 12-2C-2 of this title, is ten feet
(10').
         c.   Minimum for unattached buildings of accessory use is five feet
(5'). (2000 Code § 12-235)
         d.   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots is twenty five
feet (25'). A side yard setback of fifteen feet (15') on a corner lot may be
allowed at the discretion of the community services director. (2000 Code § 12-
235; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
         e.   Minimum setback from all exterior and interior side lot lines for
churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and buildings
accessory to dwellings, is thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Rear Yard: Minimum rear yard, except where an alley is platted, is
ten feet (10').
      4.   Lot Width: Minimum lot width at building line for one-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings and garage apartments is sixty feet (60').
      5.   Intensity Of Use:
         a.   Minimum lot area for each one-family dwelling and accessory
building is seven thousand (7,000) square feet.
         b.   Minimum lot area for each two-family dwelling and accessory
building is eight thousand five hundred (8,500) square feet.
         c.   A garage apartment located on the same lot with a one-family
dwelling shall have the same area requirements as two-family dwellings. In all
other cases, a garage apartment shall be provided with the same lot area
required by a one-family dwelling.
         d.   Where a lot has less area than herein required and all the
boundary lines of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the initial
effective date hereof, that lot may be used for any of the uses, except
churches, permitted in the R-1 one-family district.
         e.   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than
dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate
to provide the yard areas required by this section and the off street parking
areas required in chapter 2, article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-235)
         f.   Minimum space between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
fifteen feet (15'). Exceptions may be granted for placement of open metal
carports upon approval by the building inspector. (Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff.
4-10-2008)
      6.   Coverage:
         a.   Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than thirty
percent (30%) of the lot area.
         b.   Accessory buildings shall not cover more than twenty percent
(20%) of the rear yard. (2000 Code § 12-235)
   F.   Height Regulations: No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35') in height, except as provided in chapter 2,
article C of this title. (2000 Code § 12-236)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 12-2A-3 of this title for definition of "home occupation".
12-3A-4: R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the R-3 multiple- family
dwelling district are a medium and high population density residential zone
area consisting of single, duplex and multi- family dwellings along with
limited home occupations and limited private and public community uses where
lots are large enough for family living, but small enough to afford low
development costs, economy of streets and utilities, and proximity to schools,
churches and shopping. (2000 Code § 12-241)
   B.   General Uses: The following and all essentially similar uses are
permitted in this zone:
      •   Any use permitted in an R-2 two-family dwelling district.
      •   Boarding and rooming houses.
      •   Clubs and lodges.
      •   Community centers.
      •   Dormitories.
      •   Multiple-family dwellings and apartment houses. (2000 Code § 12-242)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses in the R-3 district are other accessory
uses that are incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the
adjacent property or character of the zone:
      •   Parking lots for nonresidential uses.
      •   Private garages. (2000 Code § 12-243)
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be permitted only if
authorized by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-
9 of this title and if the planning commission has approved the site plan:
      •   All uses so limited for R-2 districts in this article.
      •   Institutions for children or the aged.
      •   Medical facilities.
      •   Radio, television and microwave communication towers.
      •   Trailer courts. (2000 Code § 12-244; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff.
4-10-2008)
   E.   Area Regulations: The area regulations in the R-3 district are:
      1.   Front Yard: All buildings shall be set back from street right of way
lines to comply with the following front yard requirements:
         a.   Minimum depth of front yard is twenty five feet (25').
         b.   When a yard has double frontage, the front yard requirements
shall be provided on both streets.
         c.   If twenty five percent (25%) or more of the lots on one side of
the street between two (2) intersecting streets are improved with buildings,
all of which have observed an average setback line of greater than twenty five
feet (25'), and no building varies more than five feet (5') from this average
setback line, then no building shall be erected closer to the street line than
the minimum setback so established by the existing buildings, but this
regulation shall not require a front yard of greater depth than forty feet
(40').
      2.   Side Yard:
         a.   Minimum for one-story dwelling located on interior lot is five
feet (5').
         b.   Minimum for more than one-story dwelling located on interior lot
is ten feet (10').
         c.   Minimum for unattached buildings of accessory use is five feet
(5'). (2000 Code § 12-245)
         d.   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots is twenty five
feet (25'). A side yard setback of fifteen feet (15') on a corner lot may be
allowed at the discretion of the community services director. (2000 Code § 12-
245; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
         e.   Minimum setback from all exterior and interior side lot lines for
churches and main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and buildings
accessory to dwellings, is thirty five feet (35').
         f.   Trailer courts shall be planned in such a manner that no trailer
or related building shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15') to any side
lot line.
      3.   Rear Yard: Minimum rear yard, except where an alley is platted, is
ten feet (10').
      4.   Lot Width: Minimum lot width at building line for one-family
dwellings and two-family dwellings and garage apartments is sixty feet (60').
      5.   Intensity Of Use:
         a.   Minimum lot area for a one-family dwelling is six thousand five
hundred (6,500) square feet.
         b.   Minimum lot area for a two-family dwelling is seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet.
         c.   Minimum lot area for a multiple-family dwelling is seven thousand
five hundred (7,500) square feet; plus for each family of more than two (2)
occupying a dwelling, two thousand (2,000) square feet; plus for each family of
two (2) or less occupying a single bedroom dwelling, one thousand two hundred
fifty (1,250) square feet.
         d.   A garage apartment located on the same lot with a one-family
dwelling shall have a lot area of not less than seven thousand five hundred
(7,500) square feet. When a garage apartment is located on the same lot with a
two-family or multiple-family dwelling, the lot area shall provide not less
than two thousand (2,000) square feet more than is required for the two-family
dwelling or multiple-family dwelling.
         e.   Where a lot has less area than herein required and all the
boundary lines of that lot touch lands under other ownership on the initial
effective date hereof, that lot may be used for any of the uses, except
churches, permitted in the R-1 one-family dwelling district.
         f.   For churches and main and accessory buildings, other than
dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate
to provide the yard areas required by this section and the off street parking
areas required in chapter 2, article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-245)
         g.   Minimum space between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
fifteen feet (15'). Exceptions may be granted for placement of open metal
carports upon approval by the building inspector. (Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff.
4-10-2008)
      6.   Coverage: Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
thirty five percent (35%) of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover
more than thirty percent (30%) of the rear yard.
      7.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements as set forth in chapter 2,
article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-245)
   F.   Height Regulations: No building shall exceed three and one- half (31/2)
stories or forty five feet (45') in height, except as provided in chapter 2,
article C of this title. (2000 Code § 12-246)
12-3A-5: R-4 TOWNHOUSE DWELLING DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The R-4 townhouse dwelling district is designed to
provide areas for single-family attached units on individually platted lots at
a medium population density in addition to traditional single, duplex, and
multi-family dwellings. (2000 Code § 12-251)
   B.   General Uses: The following uses are permitted in the R-4 district:
      •   Any use permitted in the R-3 district.
      •   Townhouse development. (2000 Code § 12-252)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to
the general uses are permitted. (2000 Code § 12-253)
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be permitted only if
authorized by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-
9 of this title and if the planning commission has approved the site plan:
      •   All uses so permitted for the R-3 district. (2000 Code § 12-254; amd.
Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   E.   Area Regulations: The area regulations in the R-4 district for single,
duplex, and multi-family dwellings shall be the same as those in the R-
3 district. Area regulations for townhouse development are:
      1.   Front Yard: Minimum depth of front yard is twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Side Yard:
         a.   No side yard is required for interior lots.
         b.   No side yard is required for interior sides of end lots. (2000
Code § 12-255)
         c.   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots is twenty five
feet (25'). A side yard setback of fifteen feet (15') on a corner lot may be
allowed at the discretion of the community services director. (2000 Code § 12-
255; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
         d.   Minimum side yard for side of end lots abutting other property
not contained in townhouse development is ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   Minimum rear yard backing on a street is twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Minimum rear yard not backing on a street is fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Lot Width:
         a.   Minimum lot width at building line for interior lots is twenty
five feet (25').
         b.   Minimum lot width at building line for corner lots is forty feet
(40').
         c.   Minimum lot width at building line for end lots not abutting a
street is thirty five feet (35').
      5.   Intensity Of Use:
         a.   Minimum land area for townhouse development is twenty five
thousand (25,000) square feet.
         b.   Minimum lot area for an individual townhouse lot is two thousand
five hundred (2,500) square feet.
         c.   The total floor area for a townhouse development shall not exceed
forty percent (40%) of the land area of the townhouse development.
         d.   The floor area for an individual lot shall not exceed sixty
percent (60%) of the lot area.
      6.   Coverage: Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
fifty percent (50%) of the lot area. Accessory buildings shall not cover more
than twenty percent (20%) of the rear yard.
      7.   Open Space: In each townhouse development, there shall be commonly
owned and maintained open space in the amount of at least three hundred fifty
(350) square feet per dwelling unit. Each common open space which is provided
to meet this requirement shall be at least three thousand five hundred (3,500)
square feet in area and shall have a least dimension of not less than sixty
feet (60'). (2000 Code § 12-255)
   F.   Height Regulations: No building shall exceed three and one- half (31/2)
stories or forty five feet (45') in height, except as provided in chapter 2,
article C of this title. (2000 Code § 12-256)
   G.   Townhouse Definition: "Townhouse" means one of a series of two (2) or
more attached dwelling units, separated from one another by continuous,
vertical party walls without openings from basement floor to the roof deck and
tight against same or through the roof and which are intended to have ownership
transferred in conjunction with a platted lot, except as provided in chapter 2
of this title. (2000 Code § 12-257)
   H.   Floor Area: "Floor area", for a townhouse development, means the total
area, in square feet, of floor space within the outside dimensions of a
building, including each floor level, halls, stairways, basement, and covered
exterior balconies, except as provided in chapter 2 of this title. (2000 Code §
12-258)
   I.   Exception To Subdivision Code; Lot Sizes:
      1.   Except for townhouse lots, every residential lot served by a public
sewage system shall not be less than sixty feet (60') wide at the building line
or less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet in area or as
provided by the zoning regulations or other requirements of this code.
      2.   Except for townhouse lots, corner lots shall be at least seventy
feet (70') wide at the building line to allow for side street building lines.
Building lines may be less than twenty five feet (25') when the average slope
of the first fifty feet (50') of the lot is greater than twenty percent (20%).
(2000 Code § 12-259)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-3B-1: C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
12-3B-2: C-2 General Commercial District
12-3B-3: C-3 Commercial District
12-3B-4: H-C Highway Commercial District
12-3B-1: C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the C-1 neighborhood commercial
district are a use area for small shopping centers designed to serve
surrounding residential neighborhoods. The stores in this area provide durable
goods, personal services, convenience goods. More ample parking requirements
and more stringent bulk regulations are designed to make use area harmonize
with the residential districts which surround it. (2000 Code § 12-261)
   B.   General Uses: The following and all essentially similar uses are
permitted in this zone:
      1.   Any use permitted in the R-3 multiple-family dwelling district.
      2.   Any conditional use set forth in the R-3 multiple-family dwelling
district.
      3.   Retail stores and shops supplying the regular and customary needs of
the residents of the neighborhood and primarily for their convenience, as
follows:
         •   Antique shop.
         •   Appliance store.
         •   Art school, gallery, museum.
         •   Artist materials, supply, studio.
         •   Automobile parking lot.
         •   Automobile service station.
         •   Baby shop.
         •   Bakery store.
         •   Bank.
         •   Barber and beauty shops.
         •   Bookstore.
         •   Camera shop.
         •   Catering establishment.
         •   Clothing store.
         •   Confectionery shop.
         •   Delicatessen shop.
         •   Department store.
         •   Drugstore.
         •   Dry goods store.
         •   Eating and drinking places.
         •   Flower shop.
         •   Furniture store.
         •   Gift shop.
         •   Grocery store or supermarket.
         •   Hardware store.
         •   Hobby store.
         •   Hotel.
         •   Laundry and dry cleaning (pick up stations).
         •   Laundry, self-service.
         •   Liquor store.
         •   Meat and seafood market.
         •   Messenger or telegraph service.
         •   Musical instrument sales.
         •   Newsstand.
         •   Office supplies.
         •   Offices.
         •   Optometrist sales and service.
         •   Paint and decorating shop.
         •   Parking lot.
         •   Pharmacy.
         •   Photographer's studio.
         •   Pressing and altering of clothes.
         •   Produce store.
         •   Radio and TV sales and service.
         •   Sewing machine sales and instruction.
         •   Shoe repair shop.
         •   Sporting goods sales.
         •   Stationery store.
         •   Tailor shop.
         •   Tobacco store.
         •   Toy store.
         •   Variety store.
      4.   Nameplate and sign relating only to the use of the store and
premises or to products sold on the premises, as follows:
         a.   Flat single faced signs.
         b.   Directly lighted signs not over fifty (50) square feet in area.
         c.   Sign panels not over one hundred (100) square feet in area for
each fifty feet (50') of frontage.
      5.   Any building used for any of the above enumerated uses may not have
more than forty percent (40%) of its floor area devoted to purposes incidental
to the primary use. No materials or goods offered for sale or stored in
connection with uses enumerated above shall be displayed or stored outside of a
building. (2000 Code § 12-262)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses in the C-1 district are other accessory
uses that are incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the
adjacent property or the character of the zone. (Ord. 1026, 3-14-2006)
   D.   Area Regulations: Any C-1 zone lot established, and any structure
erected on any C-1 zone lot after the initial effective date hereof, shall
comply with the following bulk and area requirements. The area requirements for
dwellings shall be the same as requirements of R-3 multiple-family dwelling
district.
      1.   Front Yard: All buildings shall be set back from the street right of
way line to comply with the following front yard requirements:
         a.   Minimum depth of front yard where there is no parking permitted
is twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Minimum depth of front yard where parking is provided between the
structure and property lines adjacent to streets is forty feet (40').
      2.   Rear Yard: Minimum rear yard where a commercial building is to be
serviced from the rear is thirty feet (30').
      3.   Intensity Of Use: Minimum lot area for new structures erected after
the initial effective date hereof is seven thousand (7,000) square feet.
      4.   Coverage: Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
sixty five percent (65%) of the lot area.
      5.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in chapter 2,
article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-264)
   E.   Height Regulations: No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35') in height except as provided in chapter 2,
article C of this title. (2000 Code § 12-265)
   F.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be permitted only if
authorized by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-
9 of this title and after the planning commission has approved the site plan:
      •   Radio, television and microwave communication towers.
      •   Shipping container (subject to review and approval by the planning
commission on an annual basis).
      •   Warehouse, mini. (Ord. 1026, 3-14-2006; amd. Ord. 1056, 11-13-2007)
   G.   Nonconforming Uses: Nonconforming uses include any use not before
mentioned under general, accessory, or conditional uses. The planning
commission shall have the authority to permit nonconforming uses in C-
1 neighborhood commercial districts under special written agreements between
the city and the owner or occupier of the use. The agreements will detail
existing and future use, site design, parking, building and setback
requirements, and highway ingress and egress. Nonconforming uses will only be
permitted if it is determined that the use is beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 1026, 3-14-2006)
12-3B-2: C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the C-2 general commercial
district are a central business district zone for commercial, governmental and
exchange uses to the local and regional area. The uses in this area require a
central location accessible from all routes entering the city and they must be
grouped so that the transient or infrequent shopper can park and visit a number
of stores and offices on foot. The large volume of shoppers served and
concentration of uses make it necessary to provide parking in nearby area
rather than on specific properties in the central business zone. (2000 Code §
12-271)
   B.   General Uses:
      1.   Uses Enumerated: The following and all essentially similar uses are
permitted in this zone:
         •   Any use permitted in C-1 neighborhood commercial district.
         •   Advertising signs or structures.
         •   Ambulance service office or garage.
         •   Amusement enterprises.
         •   Auto court or tourist court.
         •   Automobile related uses:
         New automobile sales and services, new machinery sales and services
and public garages, provided no gasoline is stored aboveground.
         Used automobile and machinery sales, used automobile and machinery
repairing if conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building, but not
including automobile or machinery wrecking establishments or junkyards.
         •   Boat sales.
         •   Bowling alley.
         •   Bus terminal.
         •   Business machine store.
         •   Carpenter and cabinet shop.
         •   Cleaning and dyeing works.
         •   Commercial school or hall.
         •   Dance hall.
         •   Drive-in theater or restaurant.
         •   Electric transmission station.
         •   Feed and fuel store.
         •   Fire and police stations.
         •   Frozen food locker.
         •   Funeral parlor or mortuary.
         •   Furniture repair and upholstery.
         •   Gasoline and filling stations.
         •   Golf courses, miniature or practice range.
         •   Governmental office.
         •   Heating, ventilating or plumbing supplies, sales and service.
         •   Hospital for small animals.
         •   Ice storage locker plant or storage house for food.
         •   Interior decorating store.
         •   Jewelry store.
         •   Kennel.
         •   Key shop.
         •   Laboratories, testing and experimental.
         •   Leather goods shop.
         •   Library and reading rooms.
         •   Mail order outlet.
         •   Music and record shop.
         •   Newspaper printing plant.
         •   Nightclubs.
         •   Nursery or garden supply store.
         •   Parking garage.
         •   Pawnshop.
         •   Pet shop.
         •   Printing and engraving plants.
         •   Radio and television broadcasting stations.
         •   Recreation center.
         •   Research laboratory.
         •   Roller skating rink.
         •   Schools and colleges.
         •   Sign painting shop.
         •   Stock and bond broker.
         •   Storage warehouse.
         •   Telephone and telegraph office and exchange.
         •   Theater.
         •   Toy store.
         •   Utility offices and exchanges.
         •   Wholesale distributing center.
         •   Any other store or shop for retail or wholesale trade or for
rendering personal, professional or business service which does not produce
more noise, odor, dust, vibration, blast or traffic than those enumerated
above.
      2.   Requirements: The uses enumerated in subsection B1 of this section
shall comply with the following provisions:
         a.   Screen Planting: All open storage and display of merchandise,
material and equipment shall be so screened by ornamental fencing or evergreen
planting that it cannot be seen by a person standing on ground level in an R
residential or a C-1 commercial district when located to the side or rear of
the lot on which such open storage or display occurs; provided, however, that
screening shall not be required in excess of seven feet (7') in height. All
planting shall be kept neatly trimmed and maintained in good condition at all
times. Merchandise and materials which are not completely assembled or which
are not immediately and actively being offered for sale shall, in addition to
complying with the above screening requirements, be so screened by ornamental
fences or evergreen planting or by permanent buildings so that it cannot be
seen from public street.
         b.   Landscaping Of Unoccupied Yards: All yards unoccupied with
buildings or merchandise or used as trafficways shall be landscaped with grass
and shrubs and maintained in good condition the year round.
         c.   Paving Of Parking Areas And Driveways: All of the lot used for
parking of vehicles, for the storage and display of merchandise, and all
driveways used for vehicular ingress and egress shall be paved with a sealed
surface pavement and maintained in such a manner that no dust will be produced
by continued use.
         d.   Vehicle Servicing Within Building: All servicing of vehicles and
assembly of equipment carried on as an incidental part of the sales operation
shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building.
         e.   Driveway Width: Driveways used for ingress and egress shall not
exceed twenty five feet (25') in width, exclusive of curb returns.
         f.   Outdoor Lighting: Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall have an
arrangement of reflectors and an intensity of lighting which will not interfere
with adjacent land uses or the use of adjacent streets, and shall not be of a
flashing or intermittent type. (2000 Code § 12-272)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses in the C-2 district are other accessory
uses that are incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the
adjacent property or the character of the zone. (Ord. 1027, 3-14-2006)
   D.   Area Regulations: Any C-2 zone lot established and any structure
erected on any C-2 zone lot after the initial effective date hereof shall
comply with the following bulk and area requirements:
      1.   Area: The area regulations for dwellings shall be the same as the
requirements of the R-3 multiple-family dwelling district.
      2.   Front And Side Yards: There are no specific front or side yard
requirements for uses other than dwellings.
      3.   Rear Yard: Where a commercial building is to be serviced from the
rear, there shall be provided an alleyway, service court, rear yard or
combination thereof adequate to provide off street loading space. In all other
cases, no rear yard is required.
      4.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements as set forth in chapter 2,
article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-274)
   E.   Height Regulations: The height regulations for dwellings and accessory
buildings for dwellings shall be the same as those of the R-3 multiple-family
dwelling district. For other uses, no height restrictions are required. (2000
Code § 12-275)
   F.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be permitted only if
authorized by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-
9 of this title and after the planning commission has approved the site plan.
The following conditional uses are allowed:
      •   Any use permitted in the C-1 neighborhood commercial district.
      •   Radio, television and microwave communication towers.
      •   Shipping container (subject to review and approval by the planning
commission on an annual basis). (Ord. 1027, 3-14-2006; amd. Ord. 1056, 11-13-
2007)
12-3B-3: C-3 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the C-3 commercial district are
a zone for business that serves a city or regional trade, but which cannot
command a location in the central business zone because of special clientele,
need for parking or similar reasons. (2000 Code § 12-281)
   B.   General Uses:
      1.   Uses Enumerated: The following and all essentially similar uses are
permitted in this zone:
         •   All uses allowed in C-2 general commercial district.
         •   Farm implement and machinery sales, new and used.
         •   House trailer sales.
         •   Lumberyard.
         •   Metal and wood fencing, ornamental grillwork and decorative
wrought iron work and playground equipment sales.
         •   Monument sales.
         •   New and used car and truck sales.
         •   Oil field or oil well supplies.
         •   Prefabricated house sales.
         •   Trailers for hauling, rental and sales.
      2.   Requirements: The uses enumerated in subsection B1 of this section
shall comply with the following provisions:
         a.   Landscaping Yards Unoccupied With Buildings: All yards unoccupied
with buildings or merchandise or used as trafficways shall be landscaped with
grass and shrubs and maintained in good condition the year round.
         b.   Servicing Vehicles, Equipment Within Building: All servicing of
vehicles and assembly of equipment carried on as an incidental part of the
sales operation shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building.
         c.   Driveway Width: Driveways used for ingress and egress shall not
exceed twenty five feet (25') in width, exclusive of curb returns.
         d.   Outdoor Lighting: Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall have an
arrangement of reflectors and an intensity of lighting which will not interfere
with adjacent land uses or the use of adjacent streets, and shall not be of a
flashing or intermittent type. (2000 Code § 12-282)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses in the C-3 district are other accessory
uses that are incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the
adjacent property or the character of the zone. (Ord. 1028, 3-14-2006)
   D.   Area Regulations:
      1.   Area: The area regulations for dwellings shall be the same as the
requirements of the R-3 multiple-family dwelling district.
      2.   Front And Side Yards: There are no specific front or side yard
requirements for uses other than dwellings.
      3.   Rear Yard: Where a commercial building is to be serviced from the
rear, there shall be provided an alleyway, service court, rear yard or
combination thereof adequate to provide off street loading. In all other cases,
no rear yard is required.
      4.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in chapter 2,
article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-284)
   E.   Signs: Permitted signs are flat, single face signs; sign and sign
panels shall not be over four hundred eighty (480) square feet in area.
Flashing signs are prohibited. (2000 Code § 12-285)
   F.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be permitted only if
authorized by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-
9 of this title and after the planning commission has approved the site plan.
The following conditional uses are allowable:
      •   Any use permitted in the C-2 general commercial district.
      •   Radio, television and microwave communication towers.
      •   Shipping container (subject to review and approval by the planning
commission on an annual basis). (Ord. 1028, 3-14-2006; amd. Ord. 1056, 11-13-
2007)
12-3B-4: H-C HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the H-C highway commercial
district are a use area for retail establishments which cater to the traveling
public. Lot sizes, highway ingress and egress, setback requirements, and the
design of the individual sites are intended to provide for motorists' needs and
yet maintain adequate, safe, attractive facilities with minimal marginal
traffic interference. (2000 Code § 12-291)
   B.   General Uses:
      1.   Uses Enumerated: The following and all essentially similar uses are
permitted in this zone:
         •   Automotive repair if connected as an accessory to another use
(gasoline station) and wholly within an enclosed building.
         •   Churches.
         •   Eating establishments.
         •   Gasoline stations, but no aboveground storage of fuels.
         •   Liquor stores, and other retail shops which cater primarily to
resident traveling public.
         •   Temporary lodging. (2000 Code § 12-292; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008,
eff. 4-10-2008)
      2.   Requirements:
         a.   Driveways And Parking Lots: All driveways and parking lots shall
be ample for the land use; they will be designed to keep marginal highway
traffic interference to a minimum; and they will have a completely sealed
surface.
         b.   Screen Planting: All products offered for sale will be inside a
completely enclosed building or behind a permanent ornamental wall, fencing, or
planting such that it cannot be seen by a person standing on ground level;
provided, however, that no screening shall be required to be in excess of seven
feet (7') in height. (2000 Code § 12-292)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses in the H-C district are other uses that
are incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the adjacent
property or the character of the zone. (2000 Code § 12-293)
   D.   Special Exception Uses: A major truck stop which has a lot size of not
less than five (5) acres and completely sealed driveways and parking lots, and
in the collective opinion of the planning commission is suitably located and
sited with regard to adjacent uses, highway traffic interference, and is
beneficial to the city, may be, with written permission from the planning
commission, located in an H-C district. (2000 Code § 12-294)
   E.   Area Regulations:
      1.   Area: Area regulations for dwellings shall be the same as for the R-
1 residential requirements.
      2.   Yards:
         a.   Front yard minimum setback is forty feet (40'). The side yard
setback if abutting a street is the same as for the front yard.
         b.   The side yard setback will be at least fifteen feet (15'). The
rear yard setback with no alley easement will be ten feet (10'). If an alley is
dedicated, a zero lot line in the rear is allowed.
      3.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements of chapter 2, article D of
this title.
      4.   Distance Between Buildings: The minimum distance between buildings
on the same lot is fifteen feet (15').
      5.   Lot Frontage: A minimum one hundred foot (100') frontage is required
on all lots.
      6.   Lot Size: Minimum lot size is ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      7.   Curb Cuts: Longer curb cuts, up to fifty feet (50'), are allowed for
gasoline stations after approval by the planning commission. (2000 Code § 12-
295)
   F.   Height Regulations: No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories in height or thirty five feet (35') except as provided in chapter 2,
article C of this title, unless it is set back from all lot lines an additional
one foot (1') for each two feet (2') that the building exceeds thirty five feet
(35'). (2000 Code § 12-296; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   G.   Signs: Permitted signs are flat single face wall signs, ground signs,
and roof signs; signs and sign panels shall not exceed four hundred (400)
square feet in area. Flashing signs are prohibited. (2000 Code § 12-297)
   H.   Nonconforming Uses: Nonconforming uses include any use not before
mentioned under general, accessory, or special exception uses. The planning
commission shall have the authority to permit nonconforming uses in highway
commercial districts under special written agreements between the city and the
owner or occupier of the use. The agreements will detail existing and future
use, site design, parking, building and setback requirements and highway
ingress and egress. Nonconforming uses will only be permitted if it is
determined that the use is beneficial to the community. (2000 Code § 12-298)
   I.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be permitted only if
authorized by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-
9 of this title and after the planning commission has approved the site plan:
      •   Shipping container (subject to review and approval by the planning
commission on an annual basis). (Ord. 1056, 11-13-2007)
ARTICLE C. INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-3C-1: I-1 Light Industrial District
12-3C-2: I-2 Restricted Light Industrial District
12-3C-3: I-3 Heavy Industrial District
12-3C-1: I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the I-1 light industrial
district are a use area for wholesaling, storage, packaging, display, shipping,
distribution and those retail uses that are accessory to the operations and for
light manufacturing, assembling and fabrication.
   B.   Area Regulations:
      1.   Side And Rear Yards: The side yard setback will be at least fifteen
feet (15'). The rear yard setback with no alley easement will be ten feet
(10'). If an alley is dedicated, a zero lot line in the rear is allowed.
      2.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements of chapter 2, article D of
this title.
      3.   Distance Between Buildings: The minimum distance between buildings
on the same lot is fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Lot Frontage: A minimum one hundred foot (100') frontage is required
on all lots.
      5.   Lot Size: Minimum lot size is ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      6.   Curb Cuts: Longer curb cuts, up to fifty feet (50'), are allowed for
gasoline stations after approval by the planning commission. (2000 Code § 12-
301)
   C.   General Uses: The following and all essentially similar uses are
permitted in this zone:
      1.   Dwellings Excepted: Any use, except dwellings, permitted in the C-
3 commercial district. No dwelling use except sleeping facilities required by
caretakers or night watchmen employed on the premises shall be permitted in an
I-1 industrial district.
      2.   Uses Enumerated: Any of the following uses:
         •   Bakery.
         •   Book bindery.
         •   Bottling plant.
         •   Building material sales yard.
         •   Churches and schools, after the planning commission has approved
the site plan.
         •   Commercial and industrial display and sale.
         •   Contractor's equipment storage yard or equipment or plant, or
rental of equipment commonly used by contractors.
         •   Electrical equipment assembly.
         •   Fabrication, compounding and packaging of previously prepared
materials.
         •   Farm machinery.
         •   Freighting or trucking yard or terminal.
         •   Ice plant.
         •   Laundry and cleaning plant.
         •   Lumberyard.
         •   Oil field equipment storage yard.
         •   Radio, television and microwave communication towers.
         •   Restaurant.
         •   Service station.
         •   Truck, bus and train terminals.
         •   Utility, equipment yards and substations.
         •   Warehouses.
         •   Wholesale stores.
      3.   Screen Planting: No article or material permitted in this district
shall be kept, stored or displayed outside the confines of a building unless it
be so screened by fences, walls or planting that it cannot be seen from
adjoining public streets or adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing on
ground level. (2000 Code § 12-302)
   D.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses in the I-1 district are uses that are
clearly incidental to the permitted uses listed and not including residential
uses except by employees employed on the premises. (2000 Code § 12-303)
   E.   Area Regulations: Any I-1 zone lot established and any structure
erected on any I-1 zone lot after the initial effective date hereof shall
comply with the following bulk and area requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: Minimum is thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side Yard: Minimum is ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard: Minimum is ten feet (10').
      4.   Intensity Of Use:
         a.   Minimum distance between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
fifteen feet (15').
         b.   Minimum size of new zone is five (5) acres.
      5.   Coverage: Maximum lot coverage is seventy five percent (75%).
      6.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in chapter 2,
article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-304)
   F.   Signs: Permitted signs are outdoor advertising structures not over
three hundred (300) square feet in area for each fifty feet (50') of frontage.
(2000 Code § 12-305)
   G.   Height Regulations: No building shall exceed three and one- half (31/2)
stories or forty five feet (45') in height except as provided in chapter 2,
article C of this title. (2000 Code § 12-306)
12-3C-2: I-2 RESTRICTED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the I-2 restricted light
industrial district are a restricted manufacturing zone for medium sized clean
and quiet industries that may be close to residential development. The
regulations are intended to provide structures and operations that completely
confine noise, odor, dust and glare of each operation within an enclosed
building. The uses in this zone do not create excessive demands for facilities
for sewage, water, gas, electricity and similar services. (2000 Code § 12-311)
   B.   General Uses: The following and all essentially similar uses are
permitted in this zone:
      1.   Residential Uses Excepted: Any use, except a residential use,
permitted in a C-2 general commercial zone, except nightclubs, taverns, dance
halls, and liquor stores, and including facilities for caretakers and night
watchmen employed on the premises.
      2.   Processing Previously Prepared Materials: Fabrication, compounding,
processing and packaging with previously prepared materials such as foods,
drugs, cosmetics, cellophane, canvas, cloth, felt, fur, glass, leather, paints,
paper, plastics, wood and metal. (2000 Code § 12-312)
      3.   Uses Enumerated: Any of the following uses:
         •   Bakery.
         •   Book bindery.
         •   Bottling works.
         •   Candy manufacturing.
         •   Electrical equipment assembly.
         •   Electronic equipment assembly and manufacture.
         •   Engraving plant.
         •   Food products processing and packing.
         •   Furniture manufacturing.
         •   Instrument and meter manufacturing.
         •   Jewelry and watch manufacturing.
         •   Laboratory, experimental.
         •   Laundry and cleaning establishment.
         •   Leather goods fabrication.
         •   Optical goods manufacturing.
         •   Paper products manufacturing.
         •   Radio, television, microwave communication towers.
         •   Restaurant.
         •   Service station.
         •   Sporting goods manufacturing.
         •   Warehouse, mini. (2000 Code § 12-312; amd. Ord. 1018, 1-10-2006)
      4.   Operations Conducted Within Building; Screening Of Stored Articles:
All of the uses permitted under this subsection B shall have their primary
operations conducted entirely within enclosed buildings and shall not emit any
dust or smoke or noxious odor or fumes outside of the building housing the
operations or produce a noise level at the property line that is greater than
the average noise level occurring on the adjacent street. Any article or
material stored temporarily outside of an enclosed building as an incidental
part of the primary operation shall be so screened by ornamental walls and
fences or evergreen planting that it cannot be seen from adjoining public
streets or adjacent lots when viewed by a person standing on the ground level.
(2000 Code § 12-312)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses in the I-2 district are uses that are
clearly incidental to the permitted uses listed, not including residential
occupancy except by employees employed on the premises. (2000 Code § 12-313)
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be permitted only if
authorized by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-
9 of this title and after the planning commission has approved the site plan:
      •   Bulk storage of petroleum and gas.
      •   Shipping container (subject to review and approval by the planning
commission on an annual basis). (Ord. 1056, 11-13-2007)
   E.   Area Regulations: Any I-2 zone lot established and any structure
erected on any I-2 zone lot after the initial effective date hereof shall
comply with the following bulk and area requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: Minimum is forty feet (40').
      2.   Side Yard: Minimum is fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Rear Yard: Minimum is ten feet (10').
      4.   Intensity Of Use:
         a.   Minimum distance between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
fifteen feet (15').
         b.   Minimum size of new zones is ten (10) acres.
      5.   Coverage: Maximum lot coverage is fifty percent (50%).
      6.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in chapter 2,
article D of this title.
      7.   Landscaping: All yard areas required under this section and other
yards and open spaces existing around buildings shall be landscaped and
maintained in a neat condition. (2000 Code § 12-315)
   F.   Signs: Permitted signs are signs and sign panels not over three hundred
(300) square feet in area for each one hundred feet (100') of street frontage.
Flashing signs are prohibited. (2000 Code § 12-316)
   G.   Height Regulations: No building or structure shall exceed three and
one-half (31/2) stories or forty five feet (45') in height, except as provided
in chapter 2, article C of this title. (2000 Code § 12-317)
12-3C-3: I-3 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the I-3 heavy industrial
district are a zone for industries objectionable to business and residential
uses by reason of operational characteristics of the industry and insulated
from these other uses by strips of less objectionable industry or natural
barriers. This zone is intended to provide a place for manufacturing products
from raw materials. (2000 Code § 12-321)
   B.   General Uses: The following and all essentially similar uses are
permitted in this zone:
      1.   Dwellings Excepted: No dwelling uses except sleeping facilities
required by night watchmen and caretakers employed upon the premises; all uses
permitted in I-1 light industrial district.
      2.   Uses Enumerated: Any of the following uses:
         •   Abattoir.
         •   Animal and poultry slaughter and processing.
         •   Farm machinery and equipment.
         •   Foundries.
         •   Garbage disposal.
         •   Incinerators.
         •   Manufacturing, processing and/or fabrication of all commodities.
         •   Quarry.
         •   Radio, television, microwave communication towers.
         •   Railroad facilities.
         •   Repair, rental and servicing of commodities.
         •   Reservoir.
         •   Retailing and storage.
         •   Sewage disposal.
         •   Wholesaling and storage.
      3.   Screen Planting: Property and buildings in an I-3 heavy industrial
district, when used for the following purposes, shall have the uses thereon
conducted in such a manner that all operation, display or storage of material
or equipment is so screened by ornamental fences, walls and/or permanent
evergreen planting that it cannot be seen from a public street:
         •   Automobile salvage or junkyard.
         •   Building materials salvage yard.
         •   Junk or salvage yard of any kind.
         •   Scrap metal storage yard. (2000 Code § 12-322)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses are uses that are clearly incidental to
permitted uses, but not including residential occupancy except by employees
employed on the premises. (2000 Code § 12-323)
   D.   Conditional Uses: All of the following uses are prohibited until they
have been studied by the planning commission and have received the express
approval of the city council. The council may require approval of the city or
county health department, the state fire marshal and other state and county
regulating agencies and may attach to the approval specific restrictions
designed to protect the public welfare and safety:
      •   Acid manufacture.
      •   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture.
      •   Explosives, manufacture or wholesale storage.
      •   Gas manufacture.
      •   Petroleum or its products, refining of.
      •   Shipping container (subject to review and approval by the planning
commission on an annual basis).
      •   Wholesale or bulk storage of gasoline, propane or butane, or other
petroleum products. (2000 Code § 12-324; amd. Ord. 1056, 11-13-2007)
   E.   Area Regulations: Any I-3 zone lot established and any structure
erected on any I-3 zone lot after the initial effective date hereof shall
comply with the following bulk and area requirements:
      1.   Front And Side Yard: Minimum is fifty feet (50').
      2.   Intensity Of Use:
         a.   Minimum distance between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
fifteen feet (15').
         b.   Minimum size of new zones is twenty (20) acres.
      3.   Coverage: Maximum lot coverage is sixty five percent (65%).
      4.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet the off street parking requirements set forth in chapter 2,
article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-325)
   F.   Signs: Permitted signs are signs and sign panels not over three hundred
(300) square feet in area for each one hundred feet (100') of frontage. (2000
Code § 12-326)
   G.   Height Regulations: Where a lot adjoins a dwelling district, the
building shall not exceed forty five feet (45'), unless it is set back one foot
(1') from all front and side yard lines for each foot of additional height
above forty five feet (45'). (2000 Code § 12-327)
ARTICLE D. OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-3D-1: A-1 Agricultural District
12-3D-2: T-1 Transitional District
12-3D-3: F-1 Floodplain District
12-3D-4: Planned Unit Development (PUD) District
12-3D-1: A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the A-1 Agricultural District
are a zone to protect undeveloped areas from intensive uses until a use pattern
is approved and the area is rezoned. (2000 Code § 12-331)
   B.   General Uses: The following and all essentially similar uses are
permitted in this zone:
      •   Fire and police stations.
      •   Golf courses.
      •   Livestock on lots of one acre or larger if no structure for retail
sale of such livestock is maintained on the premises, provided such use is not
prohibited by existing ordinances. No horses or cattle and no other animals
except household pets shall be bred, raised or maintained within five hundred
feet (500') of any R Residential Zone.
      •   Nursery and greenhouse.
      •   Public and parochial schools, not including industrial trade schools.
      •   Single-family homes as regulated in R-1 Zone.
      •   Truck garden.
      •   Utility substation. (2000 Code § 12-332; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008,
eff. 4-10-2008)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses in the A-1 District are other accessory
uses that are incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the
adjacent property or the character of the area:
      •   Agricultural buildings.
      •   Guesthouses and employees' quarters. (2000 Code § 12-333)
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be permitted only if
authorized by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-
9 of this title and after the Planning Commission has approved the site plan:
      •   Aircraft landing fields.
      •   Boarding school.
      •   Broadcasting towers for radio and television.
      •   Churches.
      •   Country clubs.
      •   Nursing home.
      •   Orphanage.
      •   Public building.
      •   Shipping container (subject to review and approval by the Planning
Commission on an annual basis).
      •   Signs and outdoor advertising.
      •   Warehouse, mini. (Ord. 1021, 2-14-2006; amd. Ord. 1056, 11-13-2007;
Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   E.   Area Regulations: Any A-1 Zone lot established and any structure
erected on any A-1 Zone lot after the initial effective date hereof shall
comply with the following regulations:
      1.   Front Yard: Minimum depth is thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side Yard:
         a.   Minimum side yard is ten feet (10').
         b.   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lot is twenty feet
(20').
      3.   Rear Yard: Minimum rear yard except where alley is platted is ten
feet (10').
      4.   Lot Width: Minimum lot width at building line is one hundred twenty
five feet (125').
      5.   Intensity Of Use:
         a.   Minimum lot area is one acre.
         b.   Minimum space between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
fifteen feet (15'). (2000 Code § 12-335)
   F.   Height Regulations: No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories in height except as provided in chapter 2, article C of this title.
(2000 Code § 12-336)
   G.   Nonconforming Uses: Nonconforming uses include any use not before
mentioned under general, accessory, or conditional uses. The planning
commission shall have the authority to permit nonconforming uses in
agricultural districts under special written agreements between the city and
the owner or occupier of the use. The agreements will detail existing and
future use, site design, parking, building and setback requirements, and
highway ingress and egress. Nonconforming uses will only be permitted if it is
determined that the use is beneficial to the community. (Ord. 1029, 3-14-2006)
12-3D-2: T-1 TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the T-1 transitional district
are a buffer zone that allows the gradual conversion of residence on the fringe
of a commercial area into uses that are incidental to the businesses but not
harmful to the residential character of the neighborhoods. (2000 Code § 12-341)
   B.   General Uses: The following and all essentially similar uses are
permitted in this zone:
      •   All uses allowed in R-3 multiple-family dwelling district.
      •   Administrative, executive, professional and research offices.
      •   Apothecaries and drugstores.
      •   Art gallery.
      •   Government offices.
      •   Hospital and clinic.
      •   Medical and biological laboratories.
      •   Mortuary and funeral home.
      •   Parking lot.
      •   Professional schools and studies. (2000 Code § 12-342)
   C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses in the T-1 district are other accessory
uses that are incidental to the permitted uses and not detrimental to the
adjacent property or the character of the zone. (2000 Code § 12-343)
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be permitted only if
authorized by obtaining a conditional use permit as provided in section 12-2A-
9 of this title and after the planning commission has approved the site plan:
      •   Shipping container (subject to review and approval by the planning
commission on an annual basis). (Ord. 1056, 11-13-2007)
   E.   Area Regulations: Any T-1 Zone lot established and any structure
erected on any T-1 Zone lot after the initial effective date hereof shall
comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: Minimum is twenty feet (20').
      2.   Side Yard:
         a.   Minimum side yard is five feet (5').
         b.   Minimum side yard on street side of corner lots is fifteen feet
(15').
      3.   Lot Width: Minimum is fifty feet (50').
      4.   Intensity Of Use:
         a.   Minimum lot area is six thousand five hundred (6,500) square
feet.
         b.   Minimum space between unconnected buildings on the same lot is
ten feet (10').
         c.   Minimum unobstructed open space per dwelling unit is one thousand
five hundred (1,500) square feet.
      5.   Off Street Parking: Buildings shall be provided with a yard area
adequate to meet off street parking requirements set forth in chapter 2,
article D of this title. (2000 Code § 12-344)
   F.   Height Regulations: No buildings shall exceed three and one- half (31/
2) stories or forty five feet (45') in height except as provided in chapter 2,
article C of this title. (2000 Code § 12-345)
12-3D-3: F-1 FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT 1 :
   A.   Characteristics: The characteristics of the F-1 Floodplain District are
a zone for land that is unsuitable for many uses because it is subject to
periodic or occasional inundation. (2000 Code § 12-351)
   B.   Permitted Uses: The Planning Commission may approve any use such as
agricultural uses, public recreation, trailer courts, equipment yards,
quarries, etc., that is in harmony with the zone adjacent to the flood zone at
that point, if adequate protection against flooding and adequate waste disposal
is provided. (2000 Code § 12-352)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 5 of this title for floodplain regulations.
12-3D-4: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) DISTRICT:
   A.   General Description: The Planned Unit Development District (PUD) is a
special zoning district category that provides an alternate approach to
conventional land use controls. The PUD process offers an opportunity for more
creative solutions to redevelopment issues while at the same time requiring a
proposal that conforms to the goals and policies of the city comprehensive
plan. The PUD is subject to special review procedures, and once approved by the
City Council it becomes a special zoning classification for the property it
represents.
   B.   Intent and Purpose:
      1.   Encourage innovative land development while maintaining appropriate
limitations on the character and intensity of use of the project to assure
compatibility with adjoining and neighborhood properties.
      2.   Permit flexibility within the development to maximize the unique
physical features of the particular site.
      3.   Encourage efficient use and reuse of land, and facilitate economic
arrangement of buildings and circulation systems.
      4.   Achieve a continuity of function and design within the development
that results in an economically feasible project that conforms to the
comprehensive plan and is compatible with development patterns in the
surrounding neighborhood.
      5.   Provide a tool for negotiating modifications in standard zoning
district regulations in order to achieve innovative design solutions that will
protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens.
   C.   Planned Unit Development Authorized: A PUD may be authorized by an
amendment to the official zoning districts map after public hearings by the
Planning Commission and City Council, provided it complies with the
requirements contained herein.
   D.   Location And Uses:
      1.   Principal Uses: A PUD shall be considered a special zoning district,
an overlay, floating zone or district, and it may be authorized for any use or
combination of uses permitted in this chapter. The PUD may also include uses
not otherwise permitted in this zoning ordinance, provided the location and
development of such uses conform to the policies of the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses customarily incidental to the
principal uses within the PUD are permitted.
      3.   Accessory Commercial: In addition to accessory uses customarily
incidental to a permitted principal residential use, accessory use, accessory
commercial facilities may be included within the residential portion of a PUD
in accordance with the following standards:
         a.   Accessory and conditional uses are subject to their appropriate
review procedures.
         b.   The following uses shall be restricted from accessory and
conditional commercial uses:
Dance Halls
Flea Markets
Gasoline and oil retail distributing plant
Sanatorium
Laboratories, research testing, experimental
Nightclub
Private wind energy conversion systems
Funeral parlor or mortuary
Marijuana business
Storage container sales
         c.   Mini storages, outdoor storage space and other storage spaces may
be constructed subject to application and approval by Planning Commission. No
storage areas shall be constructed within 150 feet of a State Highway located
in the PUD. Entrance and offices are not included in the term storage areas.
      4.   The aggregate floor area of the accessory commercial facilities
shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet per dwelling unit nor a total of thirty
thousand (30,000) square feet.
      5.   Each accessory commercial establishment, except private clubs or
lodges or restaurants, shall be limited to a maximum of three thousand five
hundred (3,500) square feet of floor area.
      6.   The accessory commercial uses shall be internally oriented, designed
primarily for the service, convenience, and benefit of the residents of the
PUD, and shall be designed and located in such manner as to be compatible with
the residential use of the PUD and of adjacent properties. No freestanding
accessory commercial structure shall be located within three hundred feet
(300') of the perimeter of a planned unit development without prior approval.
   E.   Signs; General Use Conditions: Signs accessory to residential uses or
uses permitted by exception in residential districts shall comply with the
provisions of the residential districts. Business signs accessory to the
principal office, commercial or industrial uses shall not exceed the following
limitations, provided the approving authority may impose such additional
restrictions as are necessary to maximize compatibility with other neighboring
uses.
      1.   No off-premises signs shall be allowed.
      2.   No roof, projecting, flashing (does not include time and temperature
signs), animated or revolving signs are permitted.
      3.   No ground sign shall be located within one hundred fifty feet (150')
of any residential area, either within or abutting the PUD, unless separated by
an arterial street.
      4.   Any ground sign shall maintain a minimum separation of one hundred
feet (100') from any ground sign.
      5.   Ground signs shall not exceed twenty-five feet (25') in height,
measured from the mean curb level of the lot upon which it is erected; except,
a sign when located behind the building setback line may exceed twenty-five
feet (25'), but shall not exceed forty feet (40') in height, or pole signs at a
maximum height of fifty (50) feet.
      6.   Only one side of a double face sign shall be included in the
computation of a display surface area.
      7.   The following signs shall not be included in the computation of
display surface area:
         a.   Nameplates, attached to the face of the wall and not exceeding
two (2) square feet in surface area.
         b.   Temporary real estate and construction signs (to conform with
12-2B-3C).
         c.   Signs which are not visible from a public street.
         d.   Signs painted on the glass surface of windows or doors and
pertaining to the business conducted therein.
         e.   Tablets built into the wall of a building or other structure and
used for inscriptions or as memorial tablets or for similar purposes.
         f.   Signs or warning, directive or instructional nature erected by a
public utility, franchised transportation company or governmental agency.
         g.   Legal notices and street numbers
         h.   Election campaign signs, if erected not more than forty-five (45)
days prior to an election and removed within seven (7) days following an
election.
         i.   Signs located within a building.
         j.   Signs, not exceeding three (3) square feet of display surface
area, of a warning, directive or instructional nature, including entrance, exit
and restroom signs.
         k.   Signs which are attached as labels of a commodity offered for
sale.
   F.   Bulk and Area Requirements:
      1.   Intensity Of Use: It is the intent of this title that the aggregate
intensity of use within the planned unit development remain substantially the
same as that which would be permitted if the area were developed
conventionally, but that within the development, the intensity may be
reallocated irrespective off the general zoning district boundaries.
         a.   Residential Intensity:
            (1)   The residential intensity shall not exceed a maximum number
of dwelling units computed as follows:
               (a)   Maximum number of permitted dwelling units equals gross
area of property located within a residential district divided by minimum land
area per dwelling unit permitted in the applicable use district. For the
purpose of intensity computations, gross area shall mean the lot area plus one
half of the right of way of any abutting street to which the lot has access.
               (b)   The minimum land area per dwelling unit, for the purpose
of the computation described in subsection above, shall be the least
restrictive minimum land area per dwelling unit permitted by Planning
Commission upon approval of a Design Statement.
         b.   Nonresidential Intensity:
            (1)   The nonresidential intensity shall not exceed a maximum
permitted floor area computed as follows:
Maximum permitted floor area = gross area* of property located within a
nonresidential district multiplied (x) by the floor area ratio permitted either
by right or exception within the bulk and area requirements of the applicable
use district; except, where a floor area ratio is not specified, a floor area
of 0.75 shall apply.
* For the purposes of intensity computations, "gross area" shall be the sum of
all land areas in the PUD used for residential dwellings, plus all residential
open space or recreational areas which are not used to meet the public parks
and open space requirements of the City code.
            (2)   The intensity of use of a PUD located within two (2) or more
zoning districts of the following differing general classifications:
residential and commercial, shall be separately calculated and allocated within
the planned unit development by said general classification.
      2.   Minimum Lot Width And Lot Area: Within a PUD, a minimum lot size
requirement of four thousand (4,000) feet shall apply to lots utilized for
dwelling purposes. A minimum lot width requirement of forty feet (40') shall
apply to lots utilized for dwelling purposes. When, however, lot areas or
widths are less than would be required by the underlying zoning district,
special design features such as building design, screening walls or fences,
and/or zero lot line placement shall be incorporated in the PUD to assure as
much or more privacy and separation as would be achieved by complying with
standard lot area and width requirements.
      3.   Livability Space:
         a.   Within a PUD, livability space shall be provided in an aggregate
amount of not less than the amount of livability space required by the
applicable use district for conventional development of a comparable number of
dwelling units.
      4.   Building Height and Yards:
         a.   Within a PUD, the Planning Commission shall prescribe building
height limitations and minimum yards, which shall be incorporated within the
subdivision plat in compliance with the provisions of subsection L of this
chapter.
      5.   Setbacks from Abutting Public Streets:
         a.   Within a PUD, building setbacks from abutting public streets, for
residential use, shall not be less than as prescribed for R-1Z, R-1, R-2, or R-
3 districts as set out in 12-3A of this title. This shall be cumulative of
street/utility easement and setback space.
         b.   Within a PUD, building setbacks from abutting public streets for
nonresidential use shall not be less than as prescribed for a Commercial
District (C-1, C-2, C-3, HC) as set out within section 12-3B of this title.
   G.   Off Street Parking and Loading:
      1.   Off street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as specified
in the applicable use units and in conformance with the requirements of Chapter
2D of this title. Required spaces may be provided on the lot containing the
uses for which it is intended to serve or in common areas. Common parking area
shall be designed and located so as to be accessible to the uses it is intended
to serve. Provisions for the ownership and maintenance of common parking space
as will ensure its continuity and conservation shall be incorporated in the
subdivision plat, in compliance with the provisions of subsection L of this
chapter.
   H.   Administration of Planned Unit Development:
      1.   General: Any person, corporation, partnership, association, or
combination thereof, owning or possessing a property right or interest in or to
a tract of land may make application for the supplemental district designation
PUD. Such application shall be accompanied by an outline development plan
processed in the manner set forth in subsection I of this section. An
application for the supplemental district designation PUD may be processed
simultaneously with an application for an amendment to the general zoning
district and made contingent upon approval of said application.
      2.   Application and Outline Development Plan: An application for a
planned unit development shall be filed with the Planning Commission. The
application shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance with the established
fee schedule. The application shall be in such form and content as the Planning
Commission may, by resolution, establish, provided that three hard copies or
one digital copy of an outline development plan shall accompany the filing of
the application. The outline development plan shall consist of maps and text
which contain:
         a.   A site plan;
         b.   Existing topographic character of the land including
identification of floodplain areas, treed areas, slope analysis and soil
analysis;
         c.   An explanation of the character of the PUD;
         d.   The expected schedule of development;
         e.   Detailed landscaping plan;
         f.   Elevation and perspective drawings of the proposed buildings.
   I.   Planned Unit Development Submission Requirements:
      1.   The developer of a PUD shall follow a four (4) step application and
review procedure.
         a.   Application for rezoning, submission of a PUD master plan,
including the design statement and master development plan map.
         b.   Preliminary plat, where required by the subdivision regulations.
         c.   Final plat, where required by the subdivision regulations.
         d.   Application for building permit and site plan review.
      2.   Each required step shall be completed and approved before the
following step is reviewed. Where appropriate, other methods authorized in the
subdivision regulations may be substituted on subsections I-a-iii and I-a-iv of
this section. The Planning Commission and City Council may, however, review
more than one step at the same public hearing.
   J.   Public Hearing and Planning Commission Action:
      1.   The Planning Commission, upon the filing of an application for the
PUD supplemental district designation, shall set the matter for public hearing
and give proper notice as provided in subsection 12-2A-10A of this title.
Within sixty (60) days after the filing of an application, the Planning
Commission shall conduct the public hearing and shall determine:
         a.   Whether the PUD is consistent with the comprehensive plan;
         b.   Whether the PUD is in harmony with the existing and expected
development of the surrounding area;
         c.   Whether the PUD is a unified treatment of the development
possibilities of the project site;
         d.   Whether the PUD is consistent with the stated purposes and
standards of this chapter.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall forward its recommendation, the
application, and the outline development plan to the Seminole City Council for
further hearing as provided in subsection K of this chapter.
   K.   City Council Action: Upon receipt of the application, outline
development plan and Planning Commission recommendation, the Seminole City
Council shall review the outline development plan and approve, disapprove,
modify, or return the outline development plan to the Planning Commission for
further consideration. Upon approval, the applicant shall be authorized to
process a subdivision plat incorporating the provisions of the outline
development plan.
   L.   Planned Unit Development Subdivision Plat: A PUD subdivision plat shall
be filed with the Planning Commission and shall be processed in accordance with
the subdivision regulations, and in addition to the requirements of the
subdivision regulations, shall include:
      1.   Details as to the location of uses and street arrangement;
      2.   Provisions for the ownership and maintenance of the common open
space as will reasonably ensure its continuity and conservations. Open space
may be dedicated to a private association or to the public, provided that a
dedication to the public shall not be accepted without the approval of Planning
Commission, Park Board, and the Seminole City Council.
   M.   Abandonment, Continuing City Review, Reversion, Or Effect Of Alternate
Rezone On PUD District Status:
      1.   Property Owner Request: If the property owner determines to abandon
the PUD zoning, he shall make application for rezoning either to the original
status or to a new classification. Said application shall be heard according to
regular procedures by the Planning Commission and City Council.
      2.   Continuing Review by the City: If development of the PUD has not
been started within two (2) years of the date of approval of the PUD rezoning,
the City Manager or designee shall request a report from the applicant/owner to
determine the status of the project. The City staff shall present a report of
findings to the Planning Commission that shall determine the appropriateness of
holding a public hearing to consider rezoning the property to its original
status. Additional two (2) year reviews shall be held as required.
      3.   Alternate Rezoning; An application for rezoning to change part of
the area of a PUD to a different zoning district classification shall be
considered an amendment of the original PUD. The Planning Commission shall
review the commitments and provisions of the original PUD as approved to
determine the impact of the new application on the PUD and may require rezoning
of the entire PUD. (Ord. 1220, 6-12-2018; amd. Ord. 1260, 11-9-2021)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Purposes
12-4-2: Statutory Authority
12-4-3: Jurisdiction
12-4-4: Definitions
12-4-5: Preliminary Plat Requirements And Approval
12-4-6: Final Plat Requirements And Approval
12-4-7: Preliminary Plat Specifications
12-4-8: Final Plat Specifications
12-4-9: Preliminary Plat Certificates
12-4-10: Final Plat Certificates
12-4-11: General Design Principles, Land Suitability
12-4-12: Access Requirements
12-4-13: Conformance To Master Plan Required
12-4-14: Zoning And Other Regulations
12-4-15: Street And Subdivision Names
12-4-16: Large Tracts Or Parcels
12-4-17: Large Scale Developments
12-4-18: Modifications
12-4-19: Street Design Requirements
12-4-20: Block Requirements
12-4-21: Lot Requirements
12-4-22: Easement Requirements
12-4-23: Required Improvements By Subdividers
12-4-24: Special Exceptions To Improvement Requirements
12-4-25: Street Trees
12-4-26: Administration Of Chapter
12-4-27: Application Fees
12-4-28: Violation; Penalty
12-4-1: PURPOSES:
   This chapter shall be known as the "SUBDIVISION CODE" of the city and may be
referred to as the Seminole subdivision regulations and is intended to serve
the following purposes:
   A.   To assist orderly, efficient and coordinated development within the
territorial jurisdiction;
   B.   To promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
residents of the city and environs;
   C.   To ensure conformance of subdivision plans with the public improvement
plans of the city and environs; and
   D.   To secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing
uniform procedures and standards for observance both by subdividers and the
city planning commission. (2000 Code § 12-401)
12-4-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
   The regulations of this chapter for the subdividing and developing of land
within the city limits are adopted in accordance with the provisions of 11
Oklahoma Statutes sections 43-101 through 43-109 and 45-104. (2000 Code § 12-
402)
12-4-3: JURISDICTION:
   A.   Plats And Plans Required: Any subdivider of land within the territorial
jurisdiction shall submit to the city planning commission plats of the
subdivision and plans for indicated improvements according to this chapter. In
considering the approval of a plat, the commission shall observe and enforce
the requirements and procedures set forth herein. In the case of a plat
constituting a replat of land into two (2) or more lots, all of which will be
served by an existing street or streets, the commission shall have the power to
vary these requirements so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest served.
   B.   Plat Approval And Acceptance: No subdivider proposing to make or having
made a subdivision within the territorial jurisdiction shall proceed with any
construction work on the proposed subdivision, including grading, before
obtaining a certificate of preliminary plat approval, and shall not convey
title to any lot or lots before obtaining from the commission a certificate of
final plat approval and acceptance of the plat. (2000 Code § 12-403)
12-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter, words in the present tense include the future;
words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the
singular; "building" includes "structure"; "shall" is mandatory and not
directory. For the purpose of this chapter, the terms defined in this section
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them unless the context
clearly requires a different meaning:
   ALLEY: A minor permanent public service way which is used primarily for
vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
on a street.
   BUILDING LINE: A line across a lot establishing the minimum open space to be
provided between the buildings and structures and the street property line.
   CITY: The city of Seminole, Seminole County, Oklahoma.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk or his designated representative of the city.
   CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer or his designated representative of the
city, or the engineering authority of the city, whichever has jurisdiction.
   COMMISSION: The Seminole planning commission.
   COUNTY: Seminole County, Oklahoma.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A short street having one end open to traffic and being
permanently terminated within the plat by a vehicular turnaround.
   EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner for the use by the public, a
corporation, or persons of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   ENGINEER: A registered engineer licensed to practice in the state.
   FINAL PLAT: A finished drawing showing completely and accurately all legal
and engineering information and certification necessary for recording, and
includes the bill of assurance.
   FRONTAGE ROAD: A street, parallel to and adjacent to a major highway or
thoroughfare, which provides access to abutting properties.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Seminole health department, the Seminole County
health department, or the Oklahoma state department of health, whichever has
jurisdiction.
   LOT: A portion of a subdivision, or any other parcel of land, intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership or for development.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their
intersection.
   LOT, THROUGH: A lot other than a corner lot abutting upon two (2) or more
streets.
   MASTER PLAN: The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the development of
all or part of the territorial jurisdiction area, as adopted by the city as is
now or may be hereafter in effect.
   PLAT: A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: A drawing which shows the proposed layout of a subdivision
in sufficient detail to indicate unquestionably its workability in all aspects,
but is not in final form for recording and the details are not completely
computed.
   STAFF: The employees of the city administering this chapter.
   STREET: A dedicated and accepted right of way for vehicular traffic which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, estate or trust, or any other group or combination acting as a
unit, dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a "subdivision"
as herein defined, and includes any agent of the subdivider.
   SUBDIVISION: Includes all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two
(2) or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of sale or building development, and includes all
divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in
existing streets; provided, however, that the following shall not be included
within this definition nor be subject to the subdivision rules and regulations
of the city:
   A.   The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots
where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards or ordinances of the city;
   B.   The division of land into parcels greater than five (5) acres where no
street right of way dedication is involved; and
   C.   The public acquisition by purchase or dedication of parcels of land for
the widening or opening of streets or other improvements.
   TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION: All land lying within the planning area of the
Seminole planning commission as prescribed by the Oklahoma Statutes. (2000 Code
§ 12-404)
12-4-5: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Preapplication Consideration: Whenever any subdivision of a tract of
land is proposed to be made, the subdivider or his agent may submit to the
staff sketch plans and data concerning existing conditions within the site and
in its vicinity, which shall convey the intentions of the subdivider as to the
proposed layout and type of development. No fees shall be collected for
preapplication consideration, the purpose being to acquaint the subdivider with
the plans and policies in effect that would be significant to the proposed
subdivision. Within fifteen (15) days, the planning commission shall inform the
subdivider that the plans and data as submitted or as modified do or do not
meet the objectives of this chapter. When the planning commission finds the
plans and data do not meet the objectives of this chapter, it shall express its
reasons therefor.
   B.   Application For Certificate Of Preliminary Plat Approval: Whenever any
subdivision of a tract of land is proposed to be made, the subdivider shall
first submit to the staff an application for a certificate of preliminary plat
approval which shall consist of:
      1.   A letter of request;
      2.   Plats, plans and data as specified in section 12-4-7 of this
chapter, concerning existing conditions within the site and its vicinity and
which shall convey the intentions of the subdivider as to the proposed layout
and type of development;
      3.   A filing fee as specified in section 12-4-27 of this chapter; and
      4.   The commission may, prior to acting on a preliminary plat, hold a
hearing thereon at such time and upon such notice as the commission may
designate.
   C.   Approval Of Preliminary Plat: Upon receipt of an application for a
certificate of preliminary approval, the staff shall check the application for
conformance to this chapter and shall also consider letters or certificates of
approval or disapproval from city, county and state agencies, as well as from
the utility companies. The staff shall report to the commission at its regular
meeting on all applications for preliminary approval. In considering a
submittal, the staff may introduce such changes as necessary to meet the intent
of this chapter and to serve the best interests and needs of the community. The
subdivider, in the letter of application, may request direct action on the
application by the commission at its next regular meeting. In such case, the
commission need not take action on any application received less than ten (10)
days before its meeting. Commission approval or disapproval of a preliminary
plat shall be reported to the subdivider in writing within five (5) days after
the meeting at which it was considered. A disapproved preliminary plat may be
resubmitted to the commission after changes have been made as suggested, or
carried to the commission for its direct action. Approval of a preliminary plat
shall be given by the commission by the issuance of a certificate of
preliminary plat approval, or, if the application is disapproved, the applicant
shall be so notified in writing and the reasons therefor shall be enumerated.
The staff shall initiate action on an application within seven (7) days of
submission. One copy of the approved preliminary plat shall be retained in the
commission's files, and one copy endorsed with the certificate of preliminary
plat approval shall be returned to the subdivider. Approval of the preliminary
plat shall be governed by the following qualifications:
      1.   Approval of a preliminary plat is only tentative pending submission
of the final plat;
      2.   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective and binding upon
the commission for one year, and thereafter as long as work is actively
progressing on installation of required improvements;
      3.   Receipt by the subdivider of the executed certificate of preliminary
plat approval is authorization to proceed with the preparation of any necessary
plans and specifications for the installation of any improvements required,
subject to the approval of agencies having authority; and
      4.   The preparation of the final plat or part thereof as specified in
section 12-4-8 of this chapter. (2000 Code § 12-405)
12-4-6: FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Application For Approval Of Final Plat: Whenever the provisions of this
chapter have been complied with and while the certificate of preliminary plat
approval is in effect, the subdivider may submit to the staff an application
for review and approval of the final plat, which should consist of:
      1.   A letter of application requesting review and final approval of the
plat;
      2.   The final plat and other documents specified in section 12-4-8 of
this chapter; and
      3.   A filing fee as specified in section 12-4-27 of this chapter.
   B.   Procedure For Approval Of Final Plat: Whenever the final plat has been
submitted to the staff, which final plat conforms to an approved preliminary
plat and the provisions of section 12-4-8 of this chapter, the staff shall have
the authority to approve the final plat. If the staff fails to approve the
final plat, it shall be submitted to the commission for its consideration and
action. The commission may cause a registered engineer to check the final plat
for correctness, charging the cost to the subdivider, if the plat is found to
be in error. The commission need not take action on any application received
less than ten (10) days before its meeting. Failure of the commission to act
within forty (40) days from receipt of an application shall be deemed approval
of the final plat and waives all further plat requirements of this chapter.
Such failure to act shall be so noted by the staff on the plat to be filed for
record. If the final plat is disapproved, the applicant shall be so notified in
writing and the reasons therefor shall be enumerated. Final approval of the
final plat shall be indicated by:
      1.   Executing a certificate of final plat approval on the plat when all
required improvements have been certified under provisions of this chapter as
being installed or in lieu thereof; and
      2.   Executing a notice of final approval when the subdivider elects to
post a performance bond for installation of the required improvements at a
later date.
   C.   Certificate Of Final Plat Approval: Whenever a subdivider has been
issued a notice of final approval, the staff shall execute a certificate of
final plat approval on the plat upon certification by the city clerk or the
city engineer that the city has received one of the following:
      1.   Certificate submitted by subdivider and approved by city engineer
stating that improvements and installations to the subdivision required for
approval under terms of this chapter have been made, added or installed in
accordance with these specifications;
      2.   A contract between the subdivider and the city to install the
required improvements, such contract to be based on a satisfactory
demonstration to the planning commission of his financial ability to make the
required improvements;
      3.   A performance bond which shall be in an amount determined by the
city engineer to be sufficient to complete improvements and installations for
subdivision in compliance with this chapter; run to the city; be with surety by
a company entered and licensed to do business in the state; and specify time
for completion of the improvements and installations; or
      4.   A cash or escrow deposit in the full amount as determined by the
city engineer necessary to complete the improvements and installations for the
subdivision in compliance with this chapter. Such cash deposit may be withdrawn
in direct proportion to the amount of work completed as approved by the
commission.
   D.   Acceptance Of Dedications: Approval of the final plat by the commission
shall not be deemed acceptance of any of the dedications shown on the plat, it
being contemplated that such acceptance will be made by the city or the county
as prescribed by law.
   E.   Recording Of Final Plat; Copy Filed With Commission: Upon recording of
the approved final plat, the reproducible linen print of the final plat with
all certificates endorsed shall be returned to the commission for its files.
   F.   Certification Of Improvements: Upon completion of installation of the
improvements required by this chapter, a letter shall be submitted by a
registered professional engineer, certifying that all improvements and
installations have been made in accordance with the submitted construction
plans and drawings and the standards established by the city or the county, and
are functioning properly. (2000 Code § 12-406)
12-4-7: PRELIMINARY PLAT SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Requirements: The submission to the staff of a preliminary plat shall
consist of five (5) black or blue line prints on white background, and such
other documents in five (5) copies as are necessary to meet the requirements of
this section. The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn. The size
of the plat shall not be smaller than eight and one-half inches by eleven
inches (81/2" x 11"). The plat of a subdivision containing six (6) acres or
more shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'),
unless otherwise determined by the commission or the staff. The preliminary
plat shall contain the following information:
      1.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
      2.   Name and address of owner of record, the subdivider and the engineer
preparing the plat.
      3.   Source of title, giving deed record book and page number.
      4.   Date of survey, north point and graphic scale.
      5.   Preliminary engineering certificate.
      6.   Location of the tract by legal description giving acreage.
      7.   Vicinity map locating streets and highways, section lines,
railroads, schools, parks and other significant features within one-half (1/2)
mile of the proposed subdivision.
      8.   Exact boundary lines of the tract indicated by a heavy line giving
dimensions, angles, and at least one bearing.
      9.   Contour intervals to sea level datum of not more than two feet (2')
when the slope is less than four percent (4%) and not more than five feet (5')
when the slope is greater than four percent (4%) referenced to a United States
geological survey or coast and geodetic survey bench mark or monument.
      10.   Natural features within and surrounding the proposed subdivision
including drainage channels, bodies of water, wooded areas and other
significant features. On all watercourses leaving the tract, the direction of
flow shall be indicated, and for all watercourses entering the tract, the
drainage area above that point of entry shall be noted.
      11.   Cultural features within and surrounding the proposed subdivision,
including existing and platted streets, bridges, culverts, utility lines,
pipelines, power transmission lines, all easements, park areas, structures,
city and county lines, section lines and other significant information.
      12.   Names of recorded subdivisions abutting the proposed subdivision
with plat book and page number.
      13.   Names of owners of unsubdivided property abutting the proposed
subdivision.
      14.   Zoning districts, if applicable.
      15.   Proposed layout, including lot lines with rough dimensions, lot
numbers, block numbers, street and alley lines with proposed street names,
rights of way widths, sites reserved for parks, playgrounds, schools, etc.,
sites for nonresidential, nonpublic uses, and building lines with dimensions.
      16.   The minimum lot area in square feet for lots served by septic tanks
shall be twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, provided the percolation reports
are approved by the health department; and provided further, evidence shall be
shown that the disposal system is correlated with topography features of the
proposed lots.
   B.   Accompanying Information: The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by
the following information:
      1.   Source of water supply.
      2.   Provisions for sewage disposal, drainage and flood control.
      3.   Typical cross sections of all streets. Centerline profiles of
approximate street grades derived from office computations may be required by
the staff if deemed advisable.
      4.   Such other information as the subdivider wishes to bring to the
attention of the commission. (2000 Code § 12-407)
12-4-8: FINAL PLAT SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Requirements: The submission of a final plat shall consist of the
original drawing plus five (5) prints, plus other documents in five (5) copies
as are necessary to meet the requirements of this section. The subdivider shall
also furnish the commission with one reproducible linen print or other
comparable transparent print of the final drawing showing the executed
certificates as specified in section 12-4-9 of this chapter. The final plat
shall be clearly and legibly drawn in black ink on tracing cloth. The size of
the plat shall not be larger than seventeen and one-half inches by twenty three
and one-fourth inches (171/2" x 231/4"), including margins, when the plat is
drawn at a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Plats may be
drawn on larger sheets; provided, that reductions to the above maximum size
will be legible in all respects. The commission may require specific scales to
be used. The final plat shall contain the following information:
1. Name of subdivision.
      2.   Source of title, giving deed record book and page number.
      3.   Date of drawing, north point and graphic scale.
      4.   Location of tract by legal description, giving acreage.
      5.   Vicinity map.
      6.   Key map when more than one sheet is required to present the plat.
      7.   True courses and distances to the two (2) nearest established
section corners or bench marks or other recognized permanent monuments which
shall accurately describe the location of the plat.
      8.   Exact boundary lines of the tract indicated by a heavy line, or
other acceptable control traverse, giving dimensions to the nearest one-tenth
foot (0.1') and angles to the nearest minute, which shall be balanced and
closed with an error of closure not to exceed one to five thousand (1:5,000).
9. Municipal, county or section lines accurately tied to the lines of the
subdivision by distances and angles.
      10.   Street and alley and other right of way lines with location and
width, with street names indicated.
      11.   Street centerlines showing angles of deflection, angles of
intersection, radii, length of tangents and arcs, and degree of curvature with
basis of curve data.
      12.   Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth foot (0.1'),
necessary internal angles, arcs and chords and radii of rounded corners.
13. Building lines with dimensions.
      14.   Lot and block numbers.
      15.   Easements and public service or utility right of way lines giving
dimensions, locations and purpose.
      16.   Accurate outlines and description of any areas to be dedicated for
public use or acquisition with the purpose indicated thereon; and of any areas
to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property owners.
      17.   Accurate location and description of all monuments.
      18.   Certificate of engineering accuracy.
      19.   Certificate of owner.
      20.   Certificate of final plat approval.
      21.   Certificate of recording.
   B.   Accompanying Documents: The final plat shall be accompanied by the
following information and documents unless shown on the plat itself:
      1.   Bill of assurance, including, but not limited to, the following
provisions: offering dedications of streets and alleys, parks and other public
lands; establishing easements, setting forth privileges and conditions
pertaining thereto, and setting forth the restrictions and covenants of the
subdivisions; setting forth procedure by which amendments to the bill of
assurance can be made. Such bill of assurance shall contain reference to the
approval of the final plat.
      2.   Certificate of approval of water supply and sanitary sewage disposal
by the appropriate agency when not connected to the municipal system.
      3.   All calculations and field notes when required by the commission.
      4.   House numbering plan, three (3) copies. (2000 Code § 12-408)
12-4-9: PRELIMINARY PLAT CERTIFICATES:
   Each preliminary plat submitted to the commission shall carry the following
certificates thereon:
   A.   Preliminary Engineering Certificate:
I,                                hereby certify that this proposed preliminary
plat correctly represents a survey completed by me or under my supervision on
              , 20       that the boundary lines shown hereon correspond with
the description in the deeds cited in the above source of title; and that all
monuments    which were found or placed on the property are correctly described
and located.
Date of Execution (signed)                               
   Name                               
   Registered Professional Engineer, No.           
                         
Oklahoma
   B.   Certificate Of Owner:
I, (We), the undersigned, owner(s) of the real estate shown and described
herein do hereby certify that I (we) have laid off, platted and subdivided, and
do hereby lay off, plat and subdivide the real estate in accordance with the
within plat.
   Date of Execution (signed)                               
   Name                               
   Address                               
   Source of title D.R.                 page
   C.   Certificate Of Recording:
This document, Number filed for record 19 in Plat Book           page      
(Signed)                               
(Name)                               
          Clerk
   D.   Bill Of Assurance: For Bill of Assurance, see Deed Record Book page
          .
   E.   Certificate Of Engineering Accuracy:
I hereby certify that this plat correctly represents a survey and a plan made
by me or under my supervision; that all monuments shown hereon actually exist
and their location, size, type, and material are correctly shown; and that all
requirements of the Seminole Subdivision Regulations have been fully complied
with.
Date of Execution                     
(Signed)                               
Name                               
Registered Professional Engineer No.           
                         
Oklahoma
(2000 Code § 12-409)
 
12-4-10: FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Certificate Of Final Plat: The certificate of final plat approval shall
be on both the final plat and the bill of assurance substantially as follows:
CERTIFICATE OF FINAL APPROVAL
Pursuant to the Seminole Subdivision Regulations, this document was given
approval by the Seminole Planning Commission at a meeting held          , 20  .
All of the conditions of approval having been completed, this document is
hereby accepted, and this certificate executed under the authority of such
Regulations.
Date of Execution                     
(Signed)                               
(Name)                               
Planning Administrator Seminole Planning Commission
   B.   Time Limit For Filing: Approval of the final plat shall become null and
void unless the plat is filed for record within one hundred twenty (120) days
from the date of execution of this certificate. (2000 Code § 12-410)
 
12-4-11: GENERAL DESIGN PRINCIPLES, LAND SUITABILITY:
Land subject to flooding, improper drainage and erosion, and land deemed to be
topographically unsuitable for residential use shall not be platted for
residential occupancy, nor shall such land be platted for any other uses as may
continue such conditions or increase danger to health, safety, life or property
unless approved steps are taken to diminish the above mentioned hazards. Such
land within a proposed subdivision not detrimental to the development of the
subdivision shall be set aside for uses as set out by the planning commission.
(2000 Code § 12-411)
 
12-4-12: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
Every subdivision and parcel therein shall be served by adequate publicly
dedicated street or streets. (2000 Code § 12-412)
 
12-4-13: CONFORMANCE TO MASTER PLAN REQUIRED:
All proposed subdivisions shall conform to the master plan in effect at the
time of submission to the commission. All highways, streets and other features
of the master plan shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and to
the dimension indicated on the master plan. Where community or public
facilities of the master plan are located in whole or in part in a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall require the reservation of the area necessary
to accommodate such facilities. The public board, commission or body having
jurisdiction or financial responsibility for the acquisition of such reserved
facility or facilities shall, within four (4) months following recording of the
final plat, execute a written option to acquire by purchase or file suit for
condemnation of the area reserved for such facility or facilities; provided
further, however, the option to acquire must be exercised and fully consummated
within twelve (12) months following the date of the recording of the final
plat. (2000 Code § 12-413)
 
12-4-14: ZONING AND OTHER REGULATIONS:
No final plat of land within the force and effect of an existing zoning code
shall be approved unless it conforms to the zoning code. Whenever there is a
discrepancy between minimum standards or dimensions noted herein and those
contained in zoning regulations, building code or other official regulations,
codes or ordinances, the most restrictive shall apply. (2000 Code § 12-414)
 
12-4-15: STREET AND SUBDIVISION NAMES:
The commission shall have the authority to determine the street names and
subdivision names and to require changes in any proposed names. (2000 Code §
12-415)
 
12-4-16: LARGE TRACTS OR PARCELS:
When land is subdivided into larger parcels than ordinary building lots, such
parcels shall be arranged and designed so as to allow for the opening of future
streets and to provide access to those areas not presently served by streets.
(2000 Code § 12-416)
 
12-4-17: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS:
A large scale development including the construction of two (2) or more
buildings, together with the necessary drives and ways of access which is not
subdivided into customary lots, blocks and streets, may be approved by the
commission if, in the opinion of the commission, a departure from this chapter
can be made consistent with the intent of this chapter. Plans for all such
developments shall be submitted to and approved by the commission whether or
not such plat is to be recorded, and no building permits shall be issued until
such approval has been given. (2000 Code § 12-417)
 
12-4-18: MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Authority: Modifications of the provisions set forth in this chapter
shall be authorized by the commission in specific cases when, in its opinion,
undue hardships may result from strict compliance. Any determination shall be
based fundamentally on the fact that unusual topographical and other
exceptional conditions require such modification that will not adversely affect
the general public or nullify the intent of these regulations.
   B.   Filing Application: Application for any of the aforementioned
modifications shall be filed in writing with necessary supporting documents to
the commission by the subdivider simultaneously with the preliminary plat and
shall explain in detail the reasons and facts supporting the application. (2000
Code § 12-418)
 
12-4-19: STREET DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance With Master Plan: The location and width of all highways,
thoroughfares, streets and roads shall conform to the master plan. The proposed
street system shall extend existing streets or projections at the same or
greater width, but in no case less than the required minimum width.
   B.   Minimum Widths: Minimum street right of way widths are as follows:
      1.   Arterial streets, as specified by the master plan.
      2.   Major streets, as specified by the master plan.
      3.   Collector streets, sixty foot (60') minimum.
      4.   Minor streets, fifty feet (50').
      5.   Cul-de-sac, fifty feet (50').
      6.   Cul-de-sac with loop streets with less than ten (10) lots fronting,
forty feet (40').
      7.   Alleys, twenty feet (20').
      8.   Right of way requirements in excess of ninety feet (90'), as shown
on the recorded master plan, shall be reserved for acquisition by the
appropriate public body at a later date on all properties purchased on or after
the adoption of these regulations in accordance with section 12-4-13 of this
chapter.
   C.   Street Paving: Minimum street paving widths and types are as follows:
      1.   Arterial streets, as specified by the master plan.
      2.   Major streets, as specified by the master plan.
      3.   Collector streets, thirty feet (30') back of curb to back of curb.
      4.   Minor streets, twenty seven feet (27') back of curb to back of curb.
      5.   Cul-de-sac, twenty seven feet (27') back of curb to back of curb.
      6.   Cul-de-sac turnarounds, forty feet (40') from center of circle to
outer curb.
      7.   Cul-de-sac and loop streets with less than ten (10) lots fronting,
twenty two feet (22').
      8.   Alleys, fifteen feet (15').
   D.   Additional Rights Of Way: Subdivisions that adjoin existing streets
shall dedicate additional rights of way to meet the above minimum street width
requirements from each side of the centerline of the existing street. When the
subdivision is located on only one side of an existing street, one-half (1/2)
of the required right of way, and in no case less than twenty five feet (25'),
measured from the centerline of the existing right of way, shall be provided.
   E.   Frontage Roads: When a tract fronts on streets other than minor streets
or collector streets, the commission may require affected lots fronting on such
arterial streets to be provided with frontage roads.
   F.   Grades: Grades on all streets and cul-de-sacs shall not exceed ten
percent (10%). Street grades along the gutter shall not be less than one-half
of one percent (0.5%), provided adequate drainage can be obtained.
   G.   Intersections At Right Angles: Street intersections shall be as nearly
at right angles as possible, and no intersection shall be at an angle less than
sixty degrees (60o). Detailed designs of intersections may be required.
   H.   Property Line Radius: Property line radius at street intersections
shall not be less than twenty feet (20'), and where the angle of street
intersection is less than ninety degrees (90o), the commission may require a
greater radius.
   I.   Curb Line Radius: Curb line radius at street intersections shall be at
least fifteen feet (15'), and where the angle of street intersection is less
than ninety degrees (90o), the commission may require a greater radius.
   J.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall not be permitted.
   K.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sac streets or courts designed to have one end
permanently closed shall be no more than five hundred feet (500') long. There
shall be provided at the closed end a turnaround having an outside right of way
diameter of at least one hundred feet (100'). Cul-de-sac streets or courts
designed to serve ten (10) lots or less shall have an outside right of way
diameter of at least eighty feet (80') and a curved diameter of at least
seventy feet (70').
   L.   Alleys: Alleys may be required at the rear of all lots to be used for
business purposes, but shall not be provided in residential blocks, except
where the subdivider produces evidence satisfactory to the commission of the
need for alleys.
   M.   Low Density Developments: In low density developments which meet the
requirements of and are zoned agricultural A-1, a design alternative, commonly
called "drainage swale" may be used instead of the "curb and gutter" now called
for by the design criteria approved and established by the planning commission.
Such a design alternative may be used on local and collector streets and must
be of such size and construction as to meet the drainage requirements called
for in the "Engineering Drainage Analysis" which accompanies the preliminary
plat. The design of the "drainage swale" must be equal to or superior to that
required in the design criteria approved by the planning commission. If the
"drainage swale" alternative is selected by the developer, the right of way
width of local streets must be increased to sixty feet (60'); however, the
paving width requirement will remain at twenty seven feet (27'). The authority
to use "drainage swale" is not to be construed as a lessening of the standards
of this chapter, but must, if chosen, be in strict compliance with the design
criteria of the planning commission. (2000 Code § 12-419)
   N.   Construction Specifications: All public streets within the corporate
city limits shall be constructed as outlined in Appendix A, "General Notes And
Typicals For Asphalt Streets" or Appendix B, "General Notes And Typicals For
Concrete Streets" attached to the ordinance codified herein on file in the
office of the city clerk. Drainage culverts on city streets and rights of way
shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12") unless approved by the public works
department. (Ord. 925, 5-9-2000; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-4-20: BLOCK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Length: Residential blocks shall not be less than four hundred feet
(400') or more than one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800') in length, except
as the commission considers necessary to secure efficient use of land or to
achieve desired features of the street system. In blocks over one thousand feet
(1,000') long, the commission may require public crosswalks across the block.
   B.   Width: Residential blocks shall be wide enough to provide two (2) tiers
of lots of minimum depth, except where fronting on arterials are prevented by
topographical conditions or size of the property, in which case the commission
may approve a single tier of lots of minimum depth. (2000 Code § 12-420)
 
12-4-21: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
The following lot requirements shall apply:
   A.   Area And Dimensions: Lot area and dimension shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning code. Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be
perpendicular or radial to street lines. Each lot shall abut upon a public
street or road.
   B.   Size, Shape And Orientation: The size, shape and orientation of every
lot shall be as the commission deems appropriate for the type of development
and use contemplated. No lot shall be more than four (4) times as deep as it is
wide nor shall any lot average less than one hundred feet (100') deep.
   C.   Lots Not Served By Water Main: Every residential lot not served by a
water main shall be no smaller than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   D.   Residential Lots Served By Public Sewage System: Every residential lot
served by a public sewage system shall not be less than sixty feet (60') wide
at the building line nor less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square
feet in area or as provided by the zoning code.
   E.   Residential Lots Not Served By Public Sewage System: For residential
lots not served by a public or community sanitary sewage system, lot sizes
shall be determined as follows: A subdivider shall conduct a percolation test
on each proposed lot in a subdivision and indicate the location and result of
each test on the preliminary plat. The dimensions and area of each lot may be
established at the levels necessary to fulfill the requirements of the health
department.
   F.   Building Lines: Building lines for residential lots shall be at least
twenty five feet (25') from fronting property lines and fifteen feet (15') from
side street property line.
   G.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be at least seventy feet (70') wide at
the building line to allow for side street building lines. Building lines may
be less than twenty five feet (25') when the average slope of the first fifty
feet (50') of the lot is greater than twenty percent (20%).
   H.   Frontage On Two Streets: Lots, other than corner lots, fronting on two
(2) streets shall not be platted except under exceptional circumstances, in
which case building lines shall be established on both frontages.
   I.   Planting Screen: A planting screen reservation through which there
shall be no right of vehicular access shall be provided along the line of lots
abutting arterial and major streets where double frontages exist.
   J.   Size, Shape And Arrangement, Commercial And Industrial Lots: Size,
shape and arrangement of commercial and industrial lots, where platted, shall
be subject to the approval of the commission; provided, that approval is not
granted under the provisions of section 12-4-17 of this chapter.
   K.   Building Lines For Commercial And Industrial Lots: Building lines for
commercial and industrial lots shall be at least forty feet (40') from each
street property line or as required by the planning commission. (2000 Code §
12-421)
12-4-22: EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Easements no less than ten feet (10') wide may be required by the commission
for drainage and utility lines. (2000 Code § 12-422)
 
12-4-23: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS BY SUBDIVIDERS:
   A.   Improvements Enumerated: Every subdivider shall be required to install,
at his own expense, or to have installed by the appropriate public utility, the
following improvements:
      1.   Street Grading:
         a.   All streets shall be cleared and graded as approved by the
director of public works or his designee; and
         b.   Finished grades shall be at levels approved by the director of
public works or his designee.
      2.   Street Paving:
         a.   Arterial and major street paving widths shall be in conformance
with standards set forth in the master plan.
         b.   Other streets shall be paved to widths specified in section 12-4-
19 of this chapter. The subdivider shall install pavement up to thirty six feet
(36') in width from back of curb to back of curb.
         c.   Street pavements shall be installed according to the city
specifications as adopted by the city council.
      3.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be installed on all
streets. Installations shall be in accordance with the city specifications as
adopted by the city council.
      4.   Sidewalks:
         a.   Sidewalks shall have a width of four feet (4') and shall be
installed on both sides of all streets for a distance of at least two thousand
feet (2,000') on those streets which would provide direct access to a school
site.
         b.   Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of collector streets
and major thoroughfares and on the property line side of all frontage roads on
arterials. The planning commission may exempt industrial subdivisions from
sidewalk requirements.
         c.   The commission may require additional sidewalks and wider
sidewalks near commercial areas, schools and other places of public assembly.
         d.   Sidewalks in residential areas shall abut property lines and
shall conform to the city specifications adopted by the city council.
      5.   Utility Lines:
         a.   Water Supply: Where a public water supply is within five hundred
feet (500') or a reasonable distance, the subdivider shall install or have
installed at his own expense a system of water mains which shall be inspected
and approved by the director of public works or his designee, and connect to
such supply. A connection to each lot shall be installed prior to the paving of
the street if possible. Where a water line capacity is required that is in
excess of that needed by the subdivision for water supply and fire protection,
such extra cost shall be reimbursed to the subdivider. Where a public water
supply is not available, each lot in a subdivision shall be furnished with a
water supply system approved by the health department. All water plans shall be
approved by the city engineer.
         b.   Sanitary Sewage Disposal: Where a public sanitary sewer is within
five hundred feet (500') or a reasonable distance of any point of a
subdivision, the subdivider shall connect with such sewer at his own expense;
except where such additional capacity is in excess of that required by the
subdivision, the subdivider shall be reimbursed such extra expense, and provide
a connection to each lot. Such sanitary sewage system shall be installed prior
to the installation of the street pavement. Where a public sanitary sewer is
not accessible, an alternate method of sewage disposal for each lot, or a
community sewage disposal system, may be used when in compliance with the
standards of the health department and these regulations. In the preceding
subsections of this section on utility lines, the phrase, "Every subdivider
shall be required to install..." shall be interpreted to mean that the
subdivider shall cause the improvements referred to herein to be installed, or
whenever a septic tank and absorption system or private water supply is to be
provided, that the subdivider shall require, as a condition in the bill of
assurance of the subdivision, that those facilities shall be installed by the
builders of the improvements of the lots in accordance with this chapter. All
sewer plans shall be approved by the Oklahoma state department of health and
the director of public works.
      6.   Storm Drainage:
         a.   Every subdivision shall be served by storm drainage facilities,
including drains, sewers, catch basins, culverts and other facilities.
         b.   All drainage facilities shall be so designed to serve the entire
drainage area.
         c.   All surface water drainage shall be transported to existing storm
sewers or to drainage facilities approved by the director of public works.
Valley gutters shall not be permitted.
         d.   The director of public works and commission shall approve all
drainage features.
      7.   Other Utilities: Other utilities to be installed in a subdivision
shall be located in the grass plot outside of the curb lines. If stubs to the
property lines are not installed, then connections between the lots and the
utility lines shall be made without breaking into the wearing surface of the
street, if possible.
      8.   Monuments: Monuments shall be of such material, size and length as
may be approved by the city engineer. Monuments shall be set on all outside
lines of the subdivision at angle points and points of curve. (2000 Code § 12-
423; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be placed so that no lot in a
residential subdivision is more than nine hundred feet (900') from a hydrant
located on the same street. The commission may require other spacing in
commercial or in industrial subdivisions.
   C.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be placed on diagonally
opposite corners of each street intersection in conformance with specifications
adopted by the city council.
   D.   Streetlights: Streetlights may be required by the commission. They
shall, however, be installed to specifications adopted by the city council.
(2000 Code § 12-423)
 
12-4-24: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS TO IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Waiver Of Requirements: The commission, upon the request of the
subdivider, shall waive the requirements of design, but not of procedure or
improvements, whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or
shape or is surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the
strict application of the requirements contained in this chapter would result
in substantial hardship or inequity. Such modification may be granted upon
written request of the subdivider or his engineer stating the reason or reasons
for each modification, and approval of such modification shall require a four-
fifths (4/5) vote of the regular membership of the council or two-thirds (2/3)
vote of the regular membership of the commission.
   B.   Allowing Special Exceptions: The commission, upon request of the
subdivider, shall permit special exceptions to be made to the improvements
required by this chapter when, in the opinion of the commission, such
exceptions are in keeping with the intent of this chapter, and when exceptions
will provide for a development, the character of which will be in conformance
with existing platting and development in the general neighborhood of the
proposed subdivision. The subdivider may be required to furnish special
information in order to aid the commission in its determinations. (2000 Code §
12-424)
12-4-25: STREET TREES:
Street trees that may be planted shall be placed or retained so as not to
obstruct sight distances. (2000 Code § 12-425)
12-4-26: ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER:
The subdivision rules and regulations of this chapter shall be administered by
the commission and the staff. The commission may, from time to time, issue
instructions and operating procedures to be followed in the administration of
this chapter to the end that the public may be informed and that approval of
plats be expedited. The building inspector shall not issue building permits for
any structure on any lot in a subdivision for which the plat has not been
approved and recorded in the manner prescribed herein. (2000 Code § 12-426)
 
12-4-27: APPLICATION FEES:
At the time of filing an application with the planning commission requesting
consideration of a subdivision plat, the subdivider shall pay to the city clerk
a filing fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00). (2000 Code § 12-427; amd. Ord.
1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
 
12-4-28: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of the subdivision rules and regulations in this chapter is a
misdemeanor under the laws of the state and the offender, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000
Code § 12-428)
CHAPTER 5
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ARTICLE A. STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
SECTION:
12-5A-1: Statutory Authorization
12-5A-2: Findings Of Fact
12-5A-3: Statement Of Purpose
12-5A-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-5A-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The Legislature of the State of Oklahoma has Title 82 Oklahoma Statutes
sections 1601-1620.1, as amended, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt ordinances designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the City of Seminole, Oklahoma, ordains the following, to become
effective March 9, 2021. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253,
3-9-2021)
12-5A-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Seminole are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010;
amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5A-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5A-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
ARTICLE B. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-5B-1: Definitions
12-5B-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this ordinance it's most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY      A structure which is on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and
STRUCTURE:     the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure. Examples of
               accessory structures include but are not limited to garages and storage sheds.
AREA OF        The land in the floodplain within the City of Seminole subject to a one percent or
SPECIAL FLOOD  greater chance of flooding in any given year.
HAZARD:
BASE FLOOD:    The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
               year.
BASE FLOOD     The elevation in feet above mean sea level of the base flood or 1% chance flood.
ELEVATION:
BASEMENT:      Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground level) on all
               sides.
BFE:           Base flood elevation.
               A wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended
BREAKAWAY      through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading
WALL:          forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or
               supporting foundation system.
CFR:           Code of Federal Regulations.
CRITICAL       An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood protection system, without
FEATURE:       which the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.
               Any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate, including but not
DEVELOPMENT:   limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
               paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT    A permit issued by the City of Seminole Floodplain Administrator which authorizes
PERMIT:        development in a special flood hazard area in accordance with this chapter.
               A non-basement building built, in the case of a building in Zones AE, A, and X, to
               have the top of the elevated floor adequately anchored so as not to impair the
ELEVATED       structural integrity of the building during a flood up to the magnitude of the
BUILDING:      base flood. In the case of Zones AE, A, and X, "elevated building" also includes a
               building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with
               openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood waters.
               For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the "start of
EXISTING       construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1,
CONSTRUCTION:  1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be
               referred to as "existing structures."
EXISTING       A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
MANUFACTURED   for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
HOME PARK OR   (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
SUBDIVISION:   streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
               completed before August 4, 1972.
EXPANSION TO   The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
AN EXISTING    servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
MANUFACTURED   the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR   grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
FEMA:          The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FIRM:          Flood Insurance Rate Map.
               A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
FLOOD OR       dry land areas from:
FLOODING:      A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, or
               B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
               source.
FLOOD DAMAGE   Sections 12-5A-1 through
PREVENTION     12-5A-4, and any lawfully enacted amendments or revisions thereto.
ORDINANCES:
FLOOD          An examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
ELEVATION      corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation an d
STUDY:         determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD          An official map of the City of Seminole on which FEMA has delineated both the
INSURANCE RATE areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the City
MAP:           of Seminole.
FLOOD          The official report provided by FEMA for City of Seminole which contains flood
INSURANCE      profiles, water surface elevation of the base flood, as well as the floodway
STUDY:         width, section area and mean velocity.
FLOODPLAIN     A person accredited by the OWRB and designated by the City Council of the City of
ADMINISTRATOR: Seminole to administer and implement laws, ordinances and regulations relating to
               the management of floodplains.
FLOODPLAIN OR  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
FLOOD-PRONE    definition of flood).
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN     The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:    reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
               flood control works and floodplain management regulations.
               Zoning codes and ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health
FLOODPLAIN     regulations, special purpose regulations and ordinances (such as floodplain,
MANAGEMENT     grading and erosion control regulations and ordinances) and other applications of
REGULATIONS:   police power. The term describes such state or local regulations, in any
               combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
               prevention and reduction.
               Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized,
               appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify
FLOOD          flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas within City of Seminole
PROTECTION     subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated
SYSTEM:        flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams,
               reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
               constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
               Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
FLOOD          adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or
PROOFING:      improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
               contents.
               The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
               be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
FLOODWAY:      the water surface elevation more than a designated height. A floodway is located
               within areas of special flood hazard established in Article C, Section
               12-5C-2. A floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
               floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles.
               A use that cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out
FUNCTIONALLY   in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port
DEPENDENT USE: facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
               passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities, but does not include
               long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to
ADJACENT       the proposed walls of a structure.
GRADE:
               Any structure that is:
               A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
               maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
               Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
               the National Register;
               B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
               contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
               district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC       historic district;
STRUCTURE:     C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
               historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of
               Interior; or
               D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities
               with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
                  1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
               Interior, or
                  2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
               programs.
               A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
LEVEE:         accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
               flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
               A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees and associated
LEVEE SYSTEM:  structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and
               operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
               The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
               or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking or vehicles, building
LOWEST FLOOR:  access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a
               building's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render
               the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirement of
               Section 60.3 of Title 44 CFR.
               A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent
MANUFACTURED   chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when
HOME:          connected to the required utilities. The term “manufactured home” does not include
               a “recreational vehicle.”
MANUFACTURED   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured
HOME PARK OR   home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
MEAN SEA       For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the North American Vertical
LEVEL:         Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on the
               City of Seminole' Flood Insurance Rate Maps are referenced.
               For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures for which the "start of
               construction" commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or after
NEW            December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to
CONSTRUCTION:  such structures. For floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means
               structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
               effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by the City of
               Seminole City Council and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
               A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
NEW            for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
MANUFACTURED   (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
HOME PARK OR   streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
SUBDIVISION:   completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
               adopted by the City of Seminole City Council.
OWRB:          The Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
               A vehicle which is:
               A.   Built on a single chassis;
               B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
RECREATIONAL   horizontal projections;
VEHICLE:       C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
               and
               D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
               living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY     The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
FLOODWAY:      be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
               the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
RIVERINE:      Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river(including tributaries), stream,
               brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD  See Area of Special Flood Hazard
HAZARD AREA:
               (For other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal
               Barrier Resources Act [Public Law 97-348]) Includes substantial improvement and
               means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
               construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
               other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
               either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
               such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
               construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
START OF       placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not
CONSTRUCTION:  include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it
               include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
               excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
               temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
               buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of
               the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
               construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
               structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
               dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE:     A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
               principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL    Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
DAMAGE:        structure to it's before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the
               market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
               Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure,
               the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the
               structure before "start of construction" of the improvement. This includes
               structures that have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual
SUBSTANTIAL    repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
IMPROVEMENT:   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
               state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
               identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
               necessary conditions, or
               B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration would
               not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure."
               A grant of relief by the City of Seminole City Council to a person from the terms
               of this ordinance when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
VARIANCE:      A variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
               prohibited by this ordinance. (For full requirements see Section 60.6 of Title 44
               CFR.)
VIOLATION:     The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with this
               flood damage prevention ordinance.
               The height, in relation to the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or
WATER SURFACE  other datum, where specified), of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in
ELEVATION:     the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-
               2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
 
ARTICLE C. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-5C-1: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
12-5C-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
12-5C-3: Establishment Of Development Permit
12-5C-4: Compliance
12-5C-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-5C-6: Interpretation
12-5C-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-5C-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This flood damage prevention ordinance shall apply to all areas of special
flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the City of Seminole, Oklahoma. (Ord.
1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5C-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for Seminole County,
Oklahoma and Incorporated Areas" dated April 7, 2021, with the accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are hereby adopted on April 7, 2021, by
reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance. However, until this date
the current effective flood maps for the City of Seminole, dated July 2, 1992,
shall be used for this purpose until November 26, 2010. (Ord. 1129, 4-12-2011;
amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5C-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this floodplain management ordinance. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff.
9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5C-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253,
3-9-2021)
12-5C-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and
any other ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord.
1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5C-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions shall
be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State
statutes. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5C-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This ordinance does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance
shall not create liability on the part of the City of Seminole or any official
or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 1126,
9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
ARTICLE D. ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-5D-1: Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
12-5D-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of Floodplain Administrator
12-5D-3: Permit Procedures
12-5D-4: Variances
12-5D-1: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The City Council of the City of Seminole designates the Director of Community
Services (or designee) as Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement
the provisions of this ordinance and other appropriate sections of National
Flood Insurance Program regulations in Title 44 CFR pertaining to floodplain
management. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5D-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with Title 82 O.S. §§ 1601-
1618, as amended.
   B.   Reviews permit applications to determine whether the proposed building
sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for Development Permits
required by this chapter.
   D.   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental agencies from
which prior approval are required.
   E.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as to
the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions).
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the OWRB prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the FEMA.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   Shall require the developer/applicant to determine and provide the base
flood elevation on two FEMA Elevation Certificates, one pre-construction and
one post-construction, as well as other data as required in order to administer
the provisions of Division E.
   I.   When a floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain Administrator
must require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zone AE as delineated on
the Seminole County FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect
of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the City of Seminole.
   J.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
this Chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
Federal, State or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
Chapter 5.
   K.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the City of Seminole, determine if the residential and non-residential
structures and manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce
the substantial improvement requirement.
   L.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR, Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than 1 foot, provided that
the community first completes all of the provisions required by Section 65.12.
   M.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a decision of
the City Council.
   N.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd.
Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5D-3: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   An Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.    Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures; and
      2.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   B.   Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this ordinance and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems.
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage. For the proposed use; and
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
   C.   The City Council, upon recommendation of the Floodplain Administrator,
may approve certain development in Zones A or AE delineated on the Seminole
County FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by
more than one foot, provided that the applicant for the Development Permit in
that case first complies with 44 CFR Section 65.12. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff.
9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5D-4: VARIANCES:
      1.   The City Floodplain Board may grant variances for uses which do not
satisfy the requirements of the Oklahoma Floodplain Management Act or this
ordinance, if the applicant for the variance presents adequate proof that (i)
compliance with this ordinance will result in an arbitrary and unreasonable
taking of property without sufficient benefit or advantage to the people and
(ii) satisfies the pertinent provisions of this Section D. However, no variance
shall be granted where the effect of the variance will be to permit the
continuance of a condition which unreasonably creates flooding hazards.
      2.   Any variance so granted shall not be construed as to relieve any
person who receives it from any liability imposed by the Oklahoma Floodplain
Management Act or by other laws of the state.
      3.   In no case shall variances be effective for a period longer than
twenty (20) years.
      4.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the City
Council, accompanied by a filing fee of Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00).
      5.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section C(2) and provisions of
Section D of this Article IV have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      6.   Any person seeking a variance to build a structure below the base
flood elevation will be issued a notice signed by the Chairman of the City
Floodplain Board which states that:
         a.   The cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower than
the base flood elevation; and
         b.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property.
      7.   At such time as the City Floodplain Board deems the petition ready
for notification to the public, the City Floodplain Board shall schedule a
hearing and direct the applicant to publish notice thereof in a newspaper of
general circulation in Seminole County at least thirty (30) days prior to the
hearing.
      8.   The City Floodplain Board shall conduct the hearing and make
determinations in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section,
12-5D-4. This appeals group shall exercise wide discretion in weighing the
equities involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the applicant and to
the public at large when determining whether the variance shall be granted.
      9.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations or ordinances; and
         d.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      10.   Upon consideration of the factors stated in this section,
12-5D-4, and the intent of this ordinance, the City Floodplain Board may attach
such conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further
the purposes and objectives stated in Article A, Section
12-5A-3 of this chapter.
      11.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance; and a copy of any
variance issued by the City Floodplain Board shall be sent by the Floodplain
Administrator to the OWRB and FEMA within fifteen (15) days after issuance of
the variance.
   B.   Special provisions:
      1.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this ordinance.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      4.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that:
         a.   The criteria of Section
12-5D-4 A.5.; Section
12-5D-4 A.9.; Section
12-5D-4 B.2.; and Section
12-5D-4 B.3., of this Article are met, and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-
2021)
ARTICLE E. PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
12-5E-1: General Standards
12-5E-2: Specific Standards
12-5E-3: Standards For Subdivisions
12-5E-4: Floodways
12-5E-5: Severability
12-5E-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-
14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5E-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated at a minimum of two (2) feet above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this
subsection is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at a minimum of two
(2) feet above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer,
architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the Floodplain
Administrator that the standard of this subsection is satisfied.
   C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes: Require that all manufactured homes to be placed
anywhere within the City of Seminole within Zones A and AE on the City of
Seminole FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize
flood damage and have the bottom of the I-beam elevated at least two (2) feet
above the BFE. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. This
requirement is in addition to applicable State and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. The home shall be installed by a licensed installer
according to Oklahoma state law and compliance herewith shall be certified in
writing to the Floodplain Administrator by said installer prior to habitation
of the manufactured home.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A and AE on the Seminole County FIRM either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of Article IV, Section C, and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" in paragraph (4)
of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   F.   Accessory Structure - Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
Zones A and AE on the Seminole County FIRM shall comply with the following:
      1.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior;
      2.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      3.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include but are not limited to working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
      4.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE;
      5.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      6.   The structure shall be considered low in value, designed to have low
flood damage potential and constructed with flood resistance materials;
      7.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential
and constructed with flood resistance materials;
      8.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement;
      9.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure; and be placed on opposing walls with the net area of not less than 1
square inch for every square foot of the size of the footprint of the structure
(Flood Vents);
      10.   The Openings (Flood Vents) shall be located no higher than 1 foot
above grade;
      11.   The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      12.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and
      13.   The structure shall be located so as not to cause damage to
adjacent and nearby structures. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd.
Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5E-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   The applicant for a Development Permit for any subdivision located in
Zones A and AE which is 51 or more lots or greater than 5 acres shall generate
the base flood elevation data for that subdivision.
   B.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   C.   All subdivisions including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5E-4: FLOODWAYS:
The following provisions shall apply to floodways:
   A.   Encroachments, including but not limited to fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development are prohibited within the
adopted floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the City of Seminole during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If Article E, Section
12-5E-4, A above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of Article E.
   C.   The City of Seminole may permit encroachments within the adopted
floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided
that the applicant for the Development Permit complies with all of 44 CFR
Section 65.12. (Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5E-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this ordinance is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter. (Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
ARTICLE F. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
12-5F-1: Fee Schedule
12-5F-2: Severability
12-5F-1: FEE SCHEDULE:
The City of Seminole City Council establishes the following fee schedule not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one service:
   A.   Notice of Intent Fee: twenty-five dollars ($25.00) maximum.
   B.   Floodplain Development Permit Application Review: one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   C.   Floodplain Development Permit Fee: twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   D.   Inspection Fee-per inspection: twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   E.   Variance Request Filing Fee: twenty-five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 1126,
9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5F-2: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of these Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinances are held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way affect the validity of the
remaining portions of these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances. (Ord. 1253, 3-
9-2021)
ARTICLE G. PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE
SECTION:
12-5G-1: Penalty
12-5G-2: Certificate Of Adoption
12-5G-1: PENALTY:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance
and other applicable regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate or other certifications required in this ordinance is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Violation of the provisions of this ordinance by failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who
violates this ordinance or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined as provided in Section
1-1-8 of the City of Seminole Code of Ordinances. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the City Council of the City of Seminole or its City Attorney
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
It is hereby found and declared by the City of Seminole that severe flooding
has occurred in the past within its jurisdiction and will certainly occur
within the future; that flooding is likely to result in infliction of serious
personal injury or death, and is likely to result in substantial injury or
destruction of property within its jurisdiction; in order to effectively comply
with minimum standards for coverage under the National Flood Insurance Program,
and in order to effectively remedy the situation described herein, this
ordinance shall be in full force on or before April 7, 2021.
(Ord. 1126, 9-14-2010, eff. 9-14-2010; amd. Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
12-5G-2: CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION:
This title shall supersede any previous floodplain management regulations or
ordinance(s) applicable to the City of Seminole. (Ord. 1253, 3-9-2021)
CHAPTER 6
MOBILE HOMES AND PARKS
SECTION:
12-6-1: Definitions
12-6-2: License Required For Construction, Operation
12-6-3: Application For License
12-6-4: Complete Plan Required
12-6-5: Notice Of Violations To Licensee
12-6-6: Petition For Hearing
12-6-7: License And Permit Fees
12-6-8: Freestanding Mobile Homes, Agricultural Areas Only
12-6-9: Monthly Fees For Water And Garbage Pick Up Service
12-6-10: Compliance With Housing Regulations
12-6-11: Notification Of Inspection Officer By Owner
12-6-12: Annual Permit Fee For Homes Outside Parks
12-6-13: Inspections
12-6-14: Access Allowed By Occupant
12-6-15: Notice Of Health And Safety Violations
12-6-16: Request For Hearing
12-6-17: Findings Compiled By Inspection Officer
12-6-18: Appeals To District Court
12-6-19: Emergency Action Without Notice
12-6-20: Mobile Homes, Travel Trailers Prohibited In Certain Districts
12-6-21: Sales Or Storage Of Mobile Homes Or Travel Trailers
12-6-22: Conformance With City Regulations
12-6-23: Nonresidential Mobile Trailers
12-6-24: Types Of Parks
12-6-25: Location Of Parks
12-6-26: Minimum Area
12-6-27: Intensity Of Development
12-6-28: Park Requirements And Facilities
12-6-29: Skirting Of Mobile Homes
12-6-30: Permit Required; Structural Additions Or Alterations
12-6-31: Other Structures On Lots
12-6-32: Registration Of Owners And Occupants
12-6-33: Dilapidated Mobile Homes Or Trailers
12-6-34: Compliance With Residential Code Standards; Exemption
12-6-35: Mobile Home Requirements
12-6-36: Dependent Mobile Homes
12-6-37: Mobile Home Subdivisions
12-6-38: Supervision Of Park
12-6-39: Posting Of License And Temporary Permit
12-6-40: Violation; Penalty
12-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower. For purposes of regulation under this chapter, a dependent
mobile home shall be considered to be the same as a travel trailer, unless
otherwise specified.
   FREESTANDING MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER: Any mobile home or travel
trailer not located in a mobile home park or travel trailer park, respectively,
licensed by the city, or in an approved mobile home subdivision.
   HEALTH OFFICER: The legally designated health authority of the city or his
authorized representative.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which meets the minimum gross floor
area or habitable space requirement as provided in this chapter and which has a
flush toilet and a bath or shower. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of
this chapter, the term "mobile home" shall mean an independent mobile home.
   INSPECTION OFFICER: The building inspector of the city or his authorized
agent.
   LICENSEE: Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park
under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME: A single-family dwelling designed for transportation on streets
and highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailer, both highway and
rail, and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operations, location on jacks or permanent foundations, connection to
utilities, and similar operations. Unless otherwise indicated in the text of
this chapter, the term" mobile home" shall refer to an "independent mobile
home" as defined in this section.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile
homes, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home and not located in a mobile home sales
lot.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where residence is in mobile homes exclusively, and mobile home lots are
sold for occupancy.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER: Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of either a mobile home or travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale (as indicated by a clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer).
   PARK: A mobile home park and/or travel trailer park.
   PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a temporary permit is issued to maintain or
operate a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON: Natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM OR PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM: Any such system built and owned
by, or dedicated to and accepted by, the city. All other such systems are
private.
   SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
and/or women, and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities as
required by this chapter or desired by the park operator.
   SUBDIVISION: Mobile home subdivision, unless otherwise indicated.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: All vehicles and portable structures built on a chassis,
designed as a temporary or permanent dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation use, including tent trailers and motor driven vehicles not included in
the definition of "independent mobile home". For purposes of regulation under
this chapter, a dependent mobile home shall be considered to be the same as a
travel trailer, unless otherwise specified.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Any plot of ground on which two (2) or more travel
trailers occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located, regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodation.
   TRAVEL TRAILER SPACE: A plot of ground within a travel trailer park designed
for accommodation of one travel trailer. (2000 Code § 12-601)
12-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION:
   It is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate any mobile
home park or travel trailer park within the limits of the city unless he holds
a valid license issued annually by the city clerk, with the approval of the
inspection officer and health officer of the city, in the name of such person
for a specific mobile home park, except that the maintenance or operation of a
mobile home park or travel trailer park in existence on the effective date
hereof may be continued under a temporary permit for such period of time and
under such conditions as are hereinafter described. (2000 Code § 12-602)
12-6-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application To Clerk; Notify City Of Sale Or Transfer: Application
shall be made to the city clerk who shall issue a license upon compliance by
the applicant with all pertinent provisions of this chapter and other
regulations of the city. Every person holding a license shall notify the city
clerk in writing within twenty four (24) hours after having sold, transferred,
given away or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home
park. The notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to
the ownership or control of such mobile home park or travel trailer park. (2000
Code § 12-603)
   B.   Form Of Application:
      1.   Application for original licenses shall be in writing signed by the
applicant, and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the application, and shall contain the following:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant.
         b.   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal
description of the park.
         c.   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with regulations
promulgated thereunder.
         d.   Such further information as may be requested by the inspection
officer or health officer.
      2.   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in writing by
the holder of the license and shall contain the following:
         a.   Any change in the information submitted since the time the
original license was issued or the latest renewal granted; and
         b.   Other information requested by the inspection officer or health
officer. (2000 Code § 12-604)
12-6-4: COMPLETE PLAN REQUIRED:
A complete plan, as required by this chapter for the purpose of obtaining a
license, shall show:
   A.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land.
   B.   The number, location and size of all mobile home spaces or travel
trailer spaces.
   C.   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips, and
recreational area.
   D.   The location of service buildings and other proposed structures.
   E.   The location and size of utility and treatment facilities.
   F.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the park. (2000 Code § 12-605)
12-6-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS TO LICENSEE:
   A.   Notice To Licensee: Whenever the health officer or inspection officer
finds conditions existing in violation of this chapter, or of any regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, he shall give notice in writing to the person to whom
the license was issued that, unless such conditions or practices be corrected
within a reasonable period of time specified in the notice, the license will be
suspended.
   B.   Reinspection; License Suspension For Noncompliance: At the end of such
period, not to exceed ninety (90) days, the inspection officer or health
officer shall reinspect such park, and if such conditions or practices have not
been corrected, he shall suspend the license and give notice in writing of such
suspension to the person to whom the license was issued. Upon receipt of notice
of suspension, such person shall cease operation of such park, except as
provided in this chapter. (2000 Code § 12-606)
12-6-6: PETITION FOR HEARING:
   Any person whose permit has been denied, suspended, or who has received
notice from the inspection officer or health officer that his permit will be
suspended unless certain conditions or practices at the park are corrected, may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the city council;
provided, that when no petition for such hearing shall have been filed within
ten (10) days following the day on which notice of suspension was served, such
license shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at the expiration of
such ten (10) day period. (2000 Code § 12-607)
12-6-7: LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES:
   The city clerk shall charge and collect for each mobile home park or travel
trailer park an initial license fee in such sum as set by the council per park.
The license shall expire one year from the date of issue, unless renewed upon
conditions as the city council may by ordinance direct. A charge shall be made
for renewals of licenses. (2000 Code § 12-609; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff.
4-10-2008)
12-6-8: FREESTANDING MOBILE HOMES, AGRICULTURAL AREAS ONLY:
   Freestanding mobile homes shall only be permitted in the city's rural
(agricultural zoned) districts which have a minimum of one acre and only as
established by the building inspector, but only when the applicant agrees in
writing to remove such mobile home within one hundred twenty (120) days after
either the mobile home site is rezoned to a district other than agricultural or
is abutted within six hundred sixty feet (660') by districts other than
agricultural. Such freestanding mobile homes must comply with normal city
regulations, except the specific qualifications of the residential code
outlined for mobile homes, the minimum residential code of the city. (2000 Code
§ 12-610; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-6-9: MONTHLY FEES FOR WATER AND GARBAGE PICK UP SERVICE:
   The owner of any single mobile home space shall pay to the city clerk, when
the space is occupied by a mobile home, the same monthly fees for water, sewer,
and garbage pick up service and shall be subject to the same penalties for
nonpayment of such fees as are prescribed by ordinance of the city for
multiple- family dwelling units, including discontinuance of such service.
(2000 Code § 12-612; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-6-10: COMPLIANCE WITH HOUSING REGULATIONS:
   Any single mobile home or mobile home space located within the city not in a
"mobile home park" as defined in section 12-6-1 of this chapter shall comply
with all regulations herein contained concerning the inspection by the building
inspector and fire marshal to meet with the sections herein relating to sewer,
water, sanitation and electrical installations. (2000 Code § 12-613; amd. Ord.
1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-6-11: NOTIFICATION OF INSPECTION OFFICER BY OWNER:
   The owner of any mobile home moved onto any single mobile home space, lot or
plot of land within the city shall notify the inspection officer within forty
eight (48) hours, or two (2) working days, of the moving of the mobile home.
There shall be no charge for the notification. The notification shall not be
necessary if the mobile home is moving to a licensed mobile home park or
outside the city limits. (2000 Code § 12-614)
12-6-12: ANNUAL PERMIT FEE FOR HOMES OUTSIDE PARKS:
   The annual fee for permits required for single mobile homes located outside
parks shall be in such sum as set by the council by motion or resolution,
payable to the city clerk. Such permit shall expire one year from issuance
thereof. (2000 Code § 12-615)
12-6-13: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authority Of Officers: The inspection officer or health officer is
hereby authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the conditions
of mobile home parks and travel trailer parks located within the city in order
to perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of
mobile home parks and of the general public. (2000 Code § 12-616)
   B.   Inspection Outside Premises:
      1.   The inspection officer or health officer shall have the power to
inspect the outside premises of private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
chapter or of regulations promulgated thereunder.
      2.   The inspection officer or health officer shall have the power to
inspect the register containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants
using the park. (2000 Code § 12-617)
12-6-14: ACCESS ALLOWED BY OCCUPANT:
   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner thereof
or his agent or employees access to any part of such mobile home park or travel
trailer park or their premises at reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this
chapter, or with any lawful regulations adopted thereunder, or with any lawful
order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (2000 Code § 12-618)
12-6-15: NOTICE OF HEALTH AND SAFETY VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice: Whenever the inspection officer or health officer
determines that violations of pertinent regulations exist, the inspection
officer shall notify the licensee or permittee of such alleged violation. Such
notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      3.   Contain an outline of remedial action which if taken will effect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      4.   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed ninety (90) days, for the
performance of any act it requires; and
      5.   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require;
provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed as properly served upon the
owner or his agent when a copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his
last known address.
   B.   License Suspension For Noncompliance:
      1.   Whenever the health officer, in the company of the inspection
officer, finds conditions existing in violation of this chapter or of any
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the inspection officer shall give notice
in writing to the person to whom the license was issued, that unless such
conditions or practices be corrected within a reasonable period of time
specified in the notice, the license will be suspended.
      2.   At the end of such period, not to exceed ninety (90) days, the
inspection officer or health officer shall reinspect such park, and if such
conditions or practices have not been corrected, the inspection officer shall
suspend the license and give notice in writing of such suspension to the person
to whom the license was issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such
person shall cease operation of such park, except as provided in this chapter.
(2000 Code § 12-619)
12-6-16: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
   Any person affected by any notice issued under this chapter or resulting
regulations may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
city council; provided, that the person shall file with the inspection officer
a written request for such hearing and setting forth briefly the grounds for
such request within ten (10) days after the day the notice was served. When no
request for such hearing shall have been filed within ten (10) days following
the day on which notice of suspension was served, such license shall be deemed
to have been automatically revoked at the expiration of such ten (10) day
period. The filing of such request shall stay the notice of suspension of
permits and licenses, except in cases of orders issued under this chapter. The
hearing shall be held by the city council at the earliest possible time. (2000
Code § 12-620)
12-6-17: FINDINGS COMPILED BY INSPECTION OFFICER:
   After the hearing, the inspection officer shall compile the findings of the
city council as to compliance with this chapter and pertinent regulations, and
shall issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the prior
notice which shall be served as provided in this chapter. Upon failure to
comply with such order, the permit of the mobile home park or travel trailer
park shall be revoked. (2000 Code § 12-621)
12-6-18: APPEALS TO DISTRICT COURT:
   Appeals from decisions of the city council shall be to the district court.
(2000 Code § 12-622)
12-6-19: EMERGENCY ACTION WITHOUT NOTICE:
   Whenever the inspection officer or health officer finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, the
inspection officer may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the
existence of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he
may deem necessary to meet the emergency, including the suspension of the
permit. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall
be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately; but, upon petition to the city council, shall be
afforded a hearing at the next regular meeting even if the agenda has been
completed. (2000 Code § 12-623)
12-6-20: MOBILE HOMES, TRAVEL TRAILERS PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN DISTRICTS:
   No freestanding mobile home or travel trailer shall be permitted in an R-
1 zoning district unless it is being offered for sale or parked for storage.
Those freestanding mobile homes which are now nonconforming uses under the
provisions of this chapter may continue as nonconforming uses; provided, that
they shall not be stored in front yards or on side yards abutting a street on
corner lots. (2000 Code § 12-624; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-6-21: SALES OR STORAGE OF MOBILE HOMES OR TRAVEL TRAILERS:
   A.   Sales: Except for mobile homes or travel trailers within regular
commercial public home or travel trailer sales lots or in other than an R-
1 residential district, each freestanding mobile home or travel trailer offered
for sale must be clearly marked as such, shall not be occupied for either
living or sleeping purposes and must be removed from the premises if not sold
within one hundred twenty (120) days. Freestanding mobile homes or travel
trailers located within regular commercial mobile home or travel trailer sales
lots need be neither individually marked for sale nor removed within one
hundred twenty (120) days if not sold.
   B.   Storage: A property owner shall not store, nor permit to be stored,
more than one mobile home or travel trailer on a residential lot. (2000 Code §
12-625)
12-6-22: CONFORMANCE WITH CITY REGULATIONS:
   Mobile homes located in authorized residential districts as herein specified
shall be considered as single-family residential units for permanent occupancy
and shall conform with all requirements of the district and all other
regulations of the city. (2000 Code § 12-626)
12-6-23: NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS:
   A.   License Required: No nonresidential mobile trailer being used
commercially shall be permitted in the city unless a license for its operation
is issued by the community services director. Initial license is subject to
approval of the planning commission in accordance with section 12-1A-5 of this
title. Such license shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential
mobile trailer, the location of such operation and the termination date of the
permit. No license shall be issued for use which would violate any city, state
or federal ordinance, law or regulation, and no license shall be required of
such trailers being used for charitable, health or educational purposes. (2000
Code § 12-627; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   License Fee: A yearly fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be
charged for each nonresidential mobile trailer license, which shall expire on
December 31 each year, and be renewable on the first day of each succeeding
year thereafter. (2000 Code § 12-628; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-
2008)
   C.   Location Near Highway: No such nonresidential mobile trailer shall be
permitted within three hundred feet (300') of any state or federal highway
right of way. (Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   D.   Operation By Contractors On Construction Projects: Operation of
nonresidential trailers by contractors on construction projects for which
building permits have been issued or which are otherwise approved by government
units is permitted during the term of such construction project without
issuance of a license. (2000 Code § 12-629)
   E.   Permanent Location Not Authorized: This chapter is not to be construed
as permitting or authorizing the permanent location of any nonresidential
mobile trailer in the city. (2000 Code § 12-630)
   F.   Continuation Of Existing Trailer: A legal nonresidential mobile trailer
existing at the time of the effective date hereof may be continued, except as
otherwise provided in this title. (Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-6-24: TYPES OF PARKS:
   A.   Types Enumerated: Parks shall be of three (3) types:
      1.   Mobile home parks;
      2.   Travel trailer parks; and
      3.   Mixed mobile home and travel trailer parks.
   B.   Location Restrictions Within Parks: No dependent travel trailer shall
be located in a mobile home park and used for occupancy. In a mixed park,
separate areas shall be reserved for mobile homes and for travel trailers. No
mobile home shall be permitted in the travel trailer sector. No travel trailer
shall be permitted in the mobile home sector. (2000 Code § 12-631)
12-6-25: LOCATION OF PARKS:
   All mobile home parks shall be located on a well drained site, properly
graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
Drainage shall not endanger any water supply. (2000 Code § 12-632)
12-6-26: MINIMUM AREA:
   The minimum area of any park shall be two (2) acres. However, parks in
existence on the effective date hereof (1970) may continue to operate with less
than two (2) acres, but if the park is to be expanded, it must at that time
have a minimum area of two (2) acres. (2000 Code § 12-633)
12-6-27: INTENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Limitations: Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than
ten (10) mobile homes per gross acre for a mobile home park and no more than
fifteen (15) travel trailers per gross acre for a travel trailer park. Area
used for sewage treatment facilities shall not be included in density
computations. Mobile home spaces shall be at least thirty feet (30') wide where
pads are close to driveways.
   B.   Travel Trailer Spaces: Travel trailer spaces shall be at least twenty
five feet (25') wide where travel trailers are located closest to the driveway.
(2000 Code § 12-634)
12-6-28: PARK REQUIREMENTS AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Spaces Clearly Defined: Every mobile home space and travel trailer
space shall be clearly defined. Mobile homes and travel trailers shall be
parked in such spaces so that at the nearest point they shall be twenty five
feet (25') from the service road, ten feet (10') from the rear lot line, and at
least twenty feet (20') from any other mobile home or travel trailer. (2000
Code § 12-635)
   B.   Location Of Mobile Or Travel Trailer:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to locate a mobile or travel trailer less than
twenty five feet (25') from any public street or highway right of way or so
that any part of such mobile home or travel trailer will obstruct any roadway
or walkway of such park.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to permit a mobile home to occupy a travel
trailer space, a travel trailer to occupy a mobile home space, and for any
mobile home or travel trailer to be located in a park unless in a designated
mobile home space or travel trailer space. (2000 Code § 12-636)
   C.   Driveways: All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a sealed surface
driveway of not less than twenty feet (20') in width if on street parking is
prohibited and twenty six feet (26') in width if on street parking is permitted
on one side of the street only. Driveways must have unobstructed access to a
public street or highway. (2000 Code § 12-637)
   D.   Prior Existence; Safety Hazard; Compliance:
      1.   In mobile home parks or travel trailer parks existing at the
effective date hereof (1970), parking on or adjacent to the street within the
park is permissible so long as it does not obstruct free movement of traffic.
Whether or not a safety hazard exists is a question to be determined by the
city council. If, upon final appeal before the city council, it is determined
by the council that a safety hazard does in fact exist, the mobile home park or
travel trailer park concerned will be required to comply with subsection D2 of
this section.
      2.   In new mobile home parks, at least two (2) clearly defined parking
spaces will be provided for each mobile home space either on or adjacent to the
mobile home space. In new travel trailer parks, at least one parking space
shall be provided for each space either on or adjacent to the space. (2000 Code
§ 12-638)
   E.   Composition Of Driveways And Walkways: All driveways and walkways
within a park shall be at least asphalt oil rock sealed surface. (2000 Code §
12-639)
   F.   Ingress And Egress Of Parks Within City Limits: In the city limits
area, new mobile home parks should abut, and have their major means of ingress
and egress on at least a secondary thoroughfare. Travel trailer parks and mixed
parks in the city limits area should abut and have their major means of ingress
and egress on at least a primary thoroughfare. (2000 Code § 12-640)
   G.   Landscaping Of Parks: All mobile home parks shall provide a suitable
screening of landscaping, and also opaque fencing shall be installed where
abutting existing single-family residential areas. (2000 Code § 12-641)
   H.   Service Buildings:
      1.   Service Building And Sanitary Facilities:
         a.   Each travel trailer park shall be provided with at least one
service building adequately equipped with flush type toilet fixtures and other
sanitary facilities as required in this chapter. No service building shall
contain less than one toilet for females, one toilet for males, one lavatory
and shower or bathtub for each sex, and one laundry tray.
         b.   All sanitary facilities required by this chapter shall be located
in service building. (2000 Code § 12-642)
      2.   Toilet And Shower Facilities Required:
         a.   Each park accommodating travel trailers shall provide the
following: toilet facilities for males shall consist of not less than two (2)
flush toilets and one urinal for the first ten (10) travel trailers or fraction
thereof, and for travel trailers in excess of ten (10), not less than one
additional flush toilet and one additional urinal for every ten (10) additional
travel trailers or fractional number thereof. (2000 Code § 12-643)
         b.   Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less than two
(2) flush toilets for the first six (6) travel trailer spaces or any less
number thereof, and for travel trailers in excess of six (6), not less than one
additional flush toilet for every six (6) additional travel trailer spaces or
fractional number thereof in excess of six (6). (2000 Code § 12-643; amd. Ord.
1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
         c.   There shall be provided for occupants of each sex not less than
two (2) lavatories and two (2) showers or bathtubs with individual dressing
accommodations for the first ten (10) travel trailer spaces or any less, and
one additional lavatory and one additional shower or bathtub with individual
dressing accommodations for every ten (10) additional travel trailer spaces or
fractional number thereof.
         d.   Each toilet for females and each shower or bathtub with
individual dressing accommodations for females shall be in a private
compartment or stall.
         e.   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females
shall either be separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the same
building, by a soundproof wall.
         f.   There shall be provided in a separate compartment or stall not
less than one flush toilet bowl receptacle for emptying bed pans and other
containers of human excreta or slop sink with at least a three inch (3") trap
and adequate supply of hot running water for cleaning of such bedpans or
containers. (2000 Code § 12-643)
      3.   Location Of Service Building: Travel trailer spaces shall be not
more than two hundred feet (200') from a service building. (2000 Code § 12-644)
      4.   Specifications For Service Buildings: Service buildings shall:
         a.   Be located twenty five feet (25') or more from any travel trailer
space.
         b.   Be of permanent construction, and be adequately lighted.
         c.   Be of moisture resistant material, to permit frequent washing and
cleansing.
         d.   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of
seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) during cold weather and to supply adequate
hot water during time of peak demands.
         e.   Have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings effectively
screened. (2000 Code § 12-645)
      5.   Sanitary Condition Maintained: All service buildings and the grounds
of the park shall be maintained in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of
any condition that will menace the health of any occupant or the public or
constitute a menace. (2000 Code § 12-646)
   I.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   Discharge Into Public Sewer: Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush
toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop sinks and laundries in service and other
buildings within the park shall be discharged into a public sewer and disposal
plant, septic tank system or private sewer and lagoon system of such
construction and in such manner as approved by the Oklahoma state health
department and in accordance with all applicable ordinances of the city. (2000
Code § 12-647)
      2.   Sewer Connections: Each mobile home space shall be provided with at
least a four inch (4") sewer connection at least four inches (4") above the
surface of the ground. The sewer connection should be protected by a concrete
collar of at least four inches (4") thick and have a minimum outside diameter
of twenty four inches (24"). The sewer connection shall be fitted with a
standard ferrule and close nipple and provided with a screw cap. Connection
between the mobile home's drain and the sewer must be watertight and self-
draining. Mobile homes with fixtures from which back siphonage may occur shall
not be connected to the park's water system until defect has been corrected.
(2000 Code § 12-648)
      3.   Mandatory Connection To Public Sewer: In the event that a public
sewer system is or becomes available within two hundred fifty feet (250') of a
mobile home park or travel trailer park, connection must be made to the public
system within one hundred eighty (180) days. (2000 Code § 12-649; amd. Ord.
1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
      4.   Required Reception Of Sewage By Occupants: Every mobile home
occupying a mobile home park space shall tie into the park sewerage system and
shall dump any accumulated waste into the system. Every dependent trailer shall
dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle provided in the travel trailer
park upon entering and upon leaving the park. Such receptacles must be approved
by the Oklahoma state health department. Any other dump of accumulated waste
within the city is prohibited. (2000 Code § 12-650)
      5.   Watertight Sewerage Connections: Sewer connections shall be
watertight. Park licensees shall maintain trailer and mobile home connections
to sewer and water systems in good condition and be responsible that there is
no sewerage or water leakage on the park premises. (2000 Code § 12-651)
   J.   Drinking Fountains: Where drinking fountains are provided for public
use, they shall be of a type and in locations approved by the health officer.
(2000 Code § 12-652)
   K.   Garbage Collection And Disposal:
      1.   Storage, Collection And Disposal Of Refuse: The storage, collection
and disposal of refuse in the park shall be so managed as to create no health
hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards, or
air pollution. (2000 Code § 12-653)
      2.   Refuse Containers: All refuse shall be stored in flytight,
watertight, rodentproof containers, which shall be located within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of any mobile home space or travel trailer space. Containers
shall be provided in sufficient numbers and capacity to properly store all
refuse. (2000 Code § 12-654)
      3.   Racks And Holders For Containers; Construction: Racks and holders
shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such container racks or holders
shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being tipped, to minimize
spillage and container deterioration, and to facilitate cleaning around them.
Lids for containers shall be permanently connected to racks or holders with
chains or other flexible materials. (2000 Code § 12-655)
   L.   Insects, Rodents, Debris And Weeds:
      1.   Control Required: Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard
public health as required by the inspection officer shall be applied in the
mobile home park or travel trailer park. (2000 Code § 12-656)
      2.   Larvicidal Solutions: Effective larvicidal solutions may be required
by the inspection officer or health officer for fly or mosquito breeding areas
which cannot be controlled by other, more permanent measures. (2000 Code § 12-
657)
      3.   Insect Or Noxious Weed Control: The inspection officer or health
officer may require the park operator to take suitable measures to control
other insects and obnoxious weeds. (2000 Code § 12-658)
      4.   Debris: Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for
rodents shall not be permitted in the mobile home park. (2000 Code § 12-659)
      5.   Rats Or Other Rodents: When rats or other objectionable rodents are
known to be in the park, the park operator shall take definite action, as
directed by the inspection officer or health officer, to exterminate them.
(2000 Code § 12-660)
   M.   Electricity; Exterior Lighting: An electrical outlet supplying at least
one hundred (100) amperes shall be provided for each mobile home space. The
installation shall comply with all applicable state and local electrical codes
and ordinances. Such electrical outlets and extension lines shall be grounded
and weatherproofed. No power supply line shall be permitted to lie on the
ground, and no main power line shall be suspended less than eighteen feet (18')
above the ground unless otherwise approved by the inspection officer. (2000
Code § 12-661)
   N.   Streets And Driveways Lighted: Streets and driveways within mobile home
and travel trailer parks shall be lighted with streetlights meeting the current
standards of the Illuminating Engineering Society or one-half (1/2)
candlepower, whichever is higher. (2000 Code § 12-662)
   O.   Fuel Piping To Mobile Homes: All piping from outside fuel storage tanks
or cylinders to mobile homes shall be of acceptable material as determined by
the inspection officer and shall be permanently installed and securely fastened
in place. All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in
place and shall not be located inside or beneath the mobile home or less than
five feet (5') from any mobile home exit. (2000 Code § 12-663)
   P.   Litter And Flammable Materials; Fires:
      1.   Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other flammable
materials. (2000 Code § 12-664)
      2.   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking and/or heating
equipment intended for such purposes. (2000 Code § 12-665)
   Q.   Plumbing And Electrical Alterations Or Repairs: All plumbing and
electrical alterations or repairs in the park shall be made in accordance with
the applicable regulations of the city. (2000 Code § 12-666)
12-6-29: SKIRTING OF MOBILE HOMES:
   Skirting of mobile homes is permissible, but areas enclosed by such skirting
shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or create a
fire hazard. (2000 Code § 12-667)
12-6-30: PERMIT REQUIRED; STRUCTURAL ADDITIONS OR ALTERATIONS:
A permit issued by the inspection officer shall be required before any
construction on a mobile home space or any structural addition or alteration to
the exterior of a mobile home shall take place. No construction or addition or
alteration to the exterior of a mobile home located in a mobile home park shall
be permitted unless of the same type of construction or materials as the mobile
home affected. All such construction, additions or alterations shall be in
compliance with local and state laws. No permit shall be required for the
addition of steps, canopies, awnings or antennas. (2000 Code § 12-668)
12-6-31: OTHER STRUCTURES ON LOTS:
   No structure other than a mobile home shall be permitted on a mobile home
space except that one structure of not to exceed two hundred (200) cubic feet
to be used for storage is permitted on each space. (2000 Code § 12-669)
12-6-32: REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS:
   A.   Information Contained In Register: Each licensee or permittee shall
keep a register containing a record of all mobile home and travel trailer
owners and occupants located within the park. The register shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of the owner or occupant of each mobile home
and motor vehicle by which it is towed;
      2.   The make, model, year and license of each mobile home and motor
vehicle;
      3.   The state, territory or country issuing such license;
      4.   The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile home;
      5.   Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent mobile
home; and
      6.   Each mobile home or travel trailer shall be identified in a park
space by some clear, legible and orderly external method of identification or
numbering system.
   B.   Inspection Of Register: The park shall keep the register available for
inspection at all times by law enforcement officers, public health officials
and city officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information
contained in the register. The register record of each occupant registered
shall not be destroyed for a period of one year following the date of departure
of the registrant from the park. (2000 Code § 12-670)
12-6-33: DILAPIDATED MOBILE HOMES OR TRAILERS:
   Wrecked, damaged or dilapidated mobile homes and travel trailers shall not
be kept or stored in a mobile home park or travel trailer park. The health
officer shall determine if a mobile home or travel trailer is damaged or
dilapidated to a point which makes the mobile home or travel trailer unfit for
human occupancy on either a temporary or permanent basis. Whenever such a
determination is made, the mobile home or travel trailer shall be vacated and
removed from the premises. (2000 Code § 12-671)
12-6-34: COMPLIANCE WITH RESIDENTIAL CODE STANDARDS; EXEMPTION:
   A.   Compliance: Every mobile home located in either a mobile home park, a
mobile home subdivision or as a freestanding mobile home shall meet the
provisions of the residential code of the city 1 , except as otherwise provided
in this chapter. (2000 Code § 12-672; amd. Ord. 942, 9-11-2001)
   B.   Travel Trailers Excepted: The residential code shall not apply to
travel trailers insofar as floor area, flush toilet, bath or shower, or ceiling
height is concerned. (2000 Code § 12-678; amd. Ord. 942, 9-1-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 5-6-1 of this code.
12-6-35: MOBILE HOME REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Gross Floor Area Or Habitable Space:
      1.   Requirements: Every mobile home shall contain the following minimum
gross floor area or habitable space:
         a.   One hundred fifty (150) square feet for one or two (2) occupants;
         b.   One hundred (100) additional square feet for a third occupant;
and
         c.   Eighty (80) square feet additional for each additional occupant
thereafter. (2000 Code § 12-673)
      2.   Specifications For Habitable Space: Habitable space in a mobile home
shall be a minimum ceiling height of seven feet (7') over fifty percent (50%)
of the floor area; and the floor area where the ceiling height is less than
five feet (5') shall not be considered in computing minimum gross floor area.
(2000 Code § 12-674)
   B.   Primary Exit And Emergency Exit: A mobile home shall have a safe and
unobstructed primary exit and an emergency exit located from the primary exit.
(2000 Code § 12-675)
   C.   Sleepers' Rooms: Rooms occupied for sleeping purposes must contain at
least sixty (60) square feet of floor space if used by more than one person and
at least forty (40) square feet if used by one person. (2000 Code § 12-676)
12-6-36: DEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES:
   Dependent mobile homes shall not be required to have flush toilet or a bath
or shower. (2000 Code § 12-677)
12-6-37: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   The minimum size of a mobile home subdivision shall be ten (10)
acres.
      2.   No residence except mobile homes shall be permitted in a mobile home
subdivision. (2000 Code § 12-679)
   B.   Minimum Lot Requirements: Minimum effective lot widths in a mobile home
subdivision shall be forty feet (40') measured at the front building line, and
minimum lot areas shall be four thousand (4,000) square feet; provided, that at
least a five foot (5') side yard shall be provided on each lot beyond any
mobile home and additions thereto; and further provided, that in areas not
serviced by the public sewer, the minimum additional lot area shall be
determined by the health officer on the basis of safe and sanitary sewer
service. The effective lot width of a mobile home shall be determined for
interior lots by measuring at right angles across the lot from one diagonal
side line to the other; and for corner lots, the measurement shall be made at
right angles from the diagonal having the greatest divergence from
perpendicular to the street, through the midpoint of the rear line of the
required front yard to the opposite lot line or an extension thereof. (2000
Code § 12-680)
   C.   Side Line Of Lots:
      1.   Side line of lots in mobile home subdivisions need not be at right
angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      2.   Regardless of the effective lot width, mobile home subdivision lots
must abut a public street for at least twenty five feet (25'). (2000 Code § 12-
681)
   D.   Greenbelt Planting Strip: All mobile home subdivisions shall have a
greenbelt planting strip not less than twenty feet (20') in width, along all
subdivision boundaries. The greenbelt shall be composed of one row of deciduous
and/or evergreen trees, spaced not more than forty feet (40') apart, and not
less than three (3) rows of shrubs spaced not more than eight feet (8') apart
and which grow to a height of five feet (5') or more after one full growing
season and which shrubs will eventually grow to a height of not less than
twelve feet (12'). (2000 Code § 12-682)
12-6-38: SUPERVISION OF PARK:
   The licensee or permittee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker,
shall be in charge at all times to keep the mobile home park, its facilities
and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The attendant or
caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee or permittee, for the
violation of any provision of this chapter to which the licensee or permittee
is subject. (2000 Code § 12-683)
12-6-39: POSTING OF LICENSE AND TEMPORARY PERMIT:
   The license certificate or temporary permit shall be conspicuously posted in
the office of or on the premises of the mobile home park or the travel trailer
park at all times. (2000 Code § 12-684)
12-6-40: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall engage in any business, trade or
vocation for which a license, permit, certificate of registration is required
by this chapter, without having a valid license, permit, certificate or
certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by this chapter or by any code adopted by this chapter, or who shall
otherwise violate any provision of this chapter or of any code adopted by this
chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the
officers provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code.
(2000 Code § 12-685)
   B.   Relief In Courts: No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter
shall interfere with the right of the city also to apply to the proper courts
of the state for a mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate action against
such person. (2000 Code § 12-686)
CHAPTER 7
VACATING STREETS, PROCEDURE
SECTION:
12-7-1: Procedure Established
12-7-2: Filing Of Application
12-7-3: Hearing; Notice
12-7-4: Action By Planning Commission
12-7-5: Action By Council
12-7-1: PROCEDURE ESTABLISHED:
   The procedure for closing of a public way or easement within the city or any
addition thereto is hereby established in this chapter. (2000 Code § 12-701)
12-7-2: FILING OF APPLICATION:
A formal application from the property owners owning more than one-half (1/2)
the total frontage on the public way or easement sought to be closed must be
filed with the planning commission at the community services office. The
community services department, planning commission, or city council may, on its
own motion, move to close a public way or easement. The application shall
consist of:
   A.   A completed application form prepared for use by the planning
commission.
   B.   An ownership list reflecting the owners of record whose property abuts
the public way or easement sought to be closed and such other owners of record
whose property is within three hundred feet (300') in any direction from the
public way or easement. The owners of record shall be taken from the current
year's tax roll in the office of the county treasurer.
   C.   A filing fee in such amount as set by the council.
   D.   A map which indicates the public way or easement sought to be closed.
This map shall also reflect the ownership lines for each owner of record whose
name appears on the ownership list.
   E.   In those cases where action by a board of county commissioners is also
required, a certified copy of an application to such board shall be provided.
(Ord. 994, 5-10-2005)
12-7-3: HEARING; NOTICE:
A notice of hearing by the planning commission shall be mailed to each owner of
record whose name appears on the list of property owners. A notice of hearing
by the planning commission shall be given to the general public by one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the city, not less
than ten (10) days prior to the hearing. (Ord. 994, 5-10-2005)
12-7-4: ACTION BY PLANNING COMMISSION:
   After the planning commission takes action on the application, an ordinance
to close the subject public way or easement shall be submitted to the city
council for final approval. (Ord. 994, 5-10-2005)
12-7-5: ACTION BY COUNCIL:
   The public way or easement shall be closed following approval by the city
council of the proposed ordinance. (Ord. 994, 5-10-2005)
CHAPTER 8
AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
12-8-1: Short Title
12-8-2: Definitions
12-8-3: Airport Zones
12-8-4: Airport Zone Height Limitations
12-8-5: Use Restrictions
12-8-6: Nonconforming Uses
12-8-7: Permits; Variances
12-8-8: Enforcement
12-8-9: Airport Zoning Board Of Adjustment
12-8-10: Appeals Procedure
12-8-11: Judicial Review
12-8-12: Conflicts; More Stringent Regulations Prevail
12-8-13: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See title 16, chapter 3 of this code for airport advisory board
  provisions.
12-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as SEMINOLE REGIONAL AIRPORT
HAZARD ZONING ORDINANCE. (2000 Code § 12-801; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff.
4-10-2008)
12-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   AIRPORT: Jimmie Austin Seminole regional airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION: The highest point of an airport's usable landing area in
feet from mean sea level. Seminole regional airport has an elevation of one
thousand twenty five feet (1,025') MSL.
   AIRPORT ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board consisting of five (5) members
appointed by the mayor with consent of the city council as authorized by state
law.
   APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
section 12-8-4 of this chapter. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface
coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES: These zones are set
forth In section 12-8-3 of this chapter.
   CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
   HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the airport layout plan, the datum shall be
mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above
the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides
with the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereof.
   OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section 12-8-4 of this
chapter.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity; includes a trustee, a
receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
   PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two
hundred feet (200') beyond each end of that runway; when the runway has no
specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface
ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set forth
in the Seminole regional airport layout plan.
   RUNWAY:
   A.   A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length. These areas are shown on the Seminole regional
airport layout plan as:
      1.   Paved landing strip; and
      2.   Turf landing strip.
   B.   They may or may not be paved now or in the future.
   STRUCTURE: An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree (90°)
angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope
of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces.
   TREE: Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for, and intended to be used
by, propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds'
maximum gross weight and less.
   VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures. (2000 Code § 12-802; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008,
eff. 4-10-2008)
12-8-3: AIRPORT ZONES:
   A.   Zones Created: In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter,
there are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the
land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal
surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to the Seminole regional airport.
Such zones are shown on the Seminole regional airport layout map on file in the
office of the director of public works and made a part hereof. An area located
in more than one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone
with the more restrictive height limitation. (2000 Code § 12-803; amd. Ord.
1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Zones Defined: The various zones are hereby established and defined as
follows:
      1.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone: The inner edge of this approach
zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is two hundred fifty
feet (250') wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of one
thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') at a horizontal distance of five
thousand feet (5,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      2.   Transitional Zones: The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces. These zones are located adjacent to and at the sides of
the primary surface and approach zones and are directly under the transitional
surfaces. These surfaces extend outward and upward at ninety degree (90°)
angles to the runway centerline (and extended runway centerline), at a slope of
seven feet (7') horizontal for each one foot (1') vertical from the sides of
the primary surface and approach zones to the point where the transitional
(conical) surface intersects with horizontal surface.
      3.   Horizontal Zone: The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs
of five thousand foot (5,000') radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones.
      4.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery (the conical zone is adjacent to the horizontal zone
and directly under the conical surface) of the horizontal zone and extends
outward therefrom a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000'). (2000
Code § 12-803)
12-8-4: AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   General Provisions: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
structure shall be erected, altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be
allowed to grow in any zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of
the applicable height limit herein established for such zone.
   B.   Height Limitations: Such applicable height limitations are hereby
established for each of the zones in question, as follows:
      1.   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20')
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of five thousand
feet (5,000') along the extended runway centerline.
      2.   Transitional Zones: Slopes seven feet (7') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of one hundred
fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation which is one hundred feet (100')
above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established
height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward beginning at
the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending
to where they intersect the conical surface.
      3.   Horizontal Zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150') above
the airport elevation or at a height of two hundred fifty feet (250') above
mean sea level.
      4.   Conical Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation and extending to a height of three hundred
fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation.
      5.   Excepted Height Limitations: Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to fifty feet (50') above the surface of the
land. (2000 Code § 12-804)
12-8-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, or
otherwise in any way create a hazard or endanger the landing, takeoff, or
maneuvering of aircraft to use the airport. (2000 Code § 12-805)
12-8-6: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a
nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date hereof, and is
diligently prosecuted.
   B.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the city to indicate to the
operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such
airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the expense of the city. (2000 Code § 12-806)
12-8-7: PERMITS; VARIANCES:
   A.   Future Uses:
      1.   Except as specifically provided in subsections A1a, A1b, and A1c of
this section, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no structure
shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be planted in any
zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and
granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the
permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined
whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations
herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit
shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance with
subsection D of this section.
         a.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
         b.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones but at a
horizontal distance of not less than four thousand two hundred feet (4,200')
from each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such approach zones.
         c.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height
above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land
contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such transition zones.
      2.   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this chapter, except as set forth in subsection 12-8-4B5 of this
chapter.
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date hereof or any amendments thereto, or than it is when the
application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the building
inspector of the city determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has
been abandoned or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically
deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such
structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate
from the zoning regulations. (2000 Code § 12-807)
   D.   Variances:
      1.   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the airport
zoning board of adjustment for a variance from such regulations. When required
by federal regulations, requests must first be submitted to the federal
aviation administration for approval. (2000 Code § 12-807; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-
11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
      2.   The application for variance shall be accompanied by a determination
from the federal aviation administration as to the effect of the proposal on
the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of
navigable airspace.
      3.   Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a
literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result in
unnecessary hardship and relief granted will not be contrary to the public
interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial
justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter. (2000 Code
§ 12-807)
      4.   Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of
this chapter may be considered by the board of adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been furnished to the airport manager for advice as to the
aeronautical effects of the variance. If the airport manager does not respond
to the application within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the airport zoning
board of adjustment may act on its own to grant or deny said application. (2000
Code § 12-807; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   E.   Obstruction Markings And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain,
at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed
proper by the board of adjustment, this condition may be modified to require
the owner to permit the city, at its own expense, to install, operate, and
maintain the necessary markings and lights. (2000 Code § 12-807)
12-8-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   It shall be the duty of the city to administer and enforce the regulations
prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the
director of public works upon a form published for that purpose. Applications
required by this chapter to be submitted to the director of public works shall
be promptly considered and granted or denied. Application for action by the
airport zoning board of adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the city
manager. (2000 Code § 12-808; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-8-9: AIRPORT ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Board Created; Powers: There is hereby created an airport zoning board
of adjustment to have and exercise the following powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the director of public works in the enforcement of this
chapter;
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such airport zoning board of adjustment under such regulations may
be required to pass; and
      3.   To hear and decide specific variances.
   B.   Membership; Terms; Removal: The airport zoning board of adjustment
shall consist of five (5) members, citizens of the city, appointed by the mayor
with the consent of the city council, and each shall serve for a term of three
(3) years and until his successor is duly appointed and qualified. Of the
members first appointed, one shall be appointed for a term of one year, two (2)
for a term of two (2) years and two (2) for a term of three (3) years. Members
shall be removable by the appointing authority for cause, upon written charges,
after a public hearing.
   C.   Procedures; Meetings:
      1.   The airport zoning board of adjustment shall adopt rules for its
governance and in harmony with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and
at such other times as the board may determine.
      3.   The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      4.   All hearings of the board shall be public.
      5.   The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or if failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the director
of public works of the city and on due cause shown. (2000 Code § 12-809; amd.
Ord. 1075, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   D.   Findings And Conclusions: The airport zoning board of adjustment shall
make written findings of fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon
which it acted and its legal conclusions from such facts in reversing,
affirming, or modifying any order, requirement, decision, or determination
which comes before it under the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Reversing Decision Of City Manager: The concurring vote of a majority
of the members of the board shall be sufficient to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the city manager or to decide in
favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under
this chapter, or to effect variation in this chapter. (2000 Code § 12-809)
12-8-10: APPEALS PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any
decision of the city manager made in his administration of this chapter may
appeal to the airport zoning board of adjustment.
   B.   Time Limit For Filing Appeal: All appeals hereunder must be taken
within a reasonable time as provided by the rules of the board by filing with
the city manager a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The city
manager shall forthwith transmit to the airport zoning board of adjustment all
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the city manager certifies to
the board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed except by order of the board on notice to the city manager.
   D.   Public Notice: The airport zoning board of adjustment shall fix a
reasonable time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   E.   Board Decisions: The airport zoning board of adjustment may, in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or
in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed
from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as may be
appropriate under the circumstances. (2000 Code § 12-810; amd. Ord. 1075, 3-11-
2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
12-8-11: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
airport zoning board of adjustment may appeal to the district court of the
county as provided in 3 Oklahoma Statutes section 111. (2000 Code § 12-811)
12-8-12: CONFLICTS; MORE STRINGENT REGULATIONS PREVAIL:
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern and prevail. (2000 Code § 12-813)
12-8-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order, or filing
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable as
provided in section 1-1-8 of this code; and each day a violation continues to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (2000 Code § 12-812)
TITLE 13
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT AND SERVICES
SECTION:
13-1-1: Department Created; Members
13-1-2: Powers
13-1-3: Chief Of Police; Duties
13-1-4: Department Supervision
13-1-5: Attendance At Council Meetings
13-1-6: Records Required
13-1-7: Prisoners' Articles; Records Required
13-1-8: Assistant Chief Of Police
13-1-9: Wearing Of Badge Required
13-1-10: Emergency Service Outside City Limits
13-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; MEMBERS:
   The police department of the city shall consist of the chief of police,
assistant chief of police and such police and patrol officers as have been or
may be prescribed from time to time by the city manager. (2000 Code § 13-101)
13-1-2: POWERS:
   The police officers of the city shall have the power to arrest all offenders
against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in the same
manner as the chief of police, and keep them in jail or other place to prevent
their escape until a trial can be had before the proper officer. (2000 Code §
13-102; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES:
   A.   Powers Of Arrest: The chief of police shall at all times have the power
to make or order an arrest, with proper process, for any offense against the
laws of the state or the city, and bring the offender for trial before the
proper officer of the city, and to arrest without process in all cases where
any such offense or violation of the law shall be committed or attempted to be
committed in his presence. He shall have the power and it shall be his duty, to
keep offenders of the law in jail or other place to prevent their escape until
a trial can be had before the proper officer and he shall perform such other
duties as are imposed on him by the provisions of this code or other laws of
the city. (2000 Code § 13-103; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
   B.   Preserve The Peace: He shall have the power to preserve the peace,
order, safety and cleanliness thereof and to this end, he shall execute and
enforce all orders of the city manager, mayor and council. (2000 Code § 13-103)
13-1-4: DEPARTMENT SUPERVISION:
   A.   Control And Management: The chief of police shall, subject to the
direction of the city manager, have control and management of all matters
relating to the police department, its officers and members, and shall have the
care, custody and control of all firearms and military equipment, books and
records belonging to that department.
   B.   Determine Hours; Establish Rules: The chief of police shall fix the
hours at which regular police officers enter upon and retire from duty, and,
subject to the approval of the city manager and council, establish rules and
regulations for governing the police force.
   C.   Suspension Of Police Officer: During the pending of charges against any
police officer, the chief of police may suspend the officer until such charges
are examined. (2000 Code § 13-104)
13-1-5: ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   The chief of police shall attend the sessions of the council and execute all
orders directed to him by the council. (2000 Code § 13-105)
13-1-6: RECORDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Books Of Record: The chief of police shall cause books of record to be
kept for the police force, and of persons arrested for offenses; of time lost
by patrol officers; of suspected persons and places and of all property placed
in his charge, and such other books and records as shall be required by the
business of the department.
   B.   Record Of Arrests: The chief of police or assistant chief of police or
any police officer making an arrest shall enter in a book to be kept for that
purpose at the police department, the name of the person arrested, the nature
of the offense and a brief description of the property or articles found on the
person of the prisoner. (2000 Code § 13-106)
13-1-7: PRISONERS' ARTICLES; RECORDS REQUIRED:
   When persons are arrested and lodged in jail, it shall be the duty of the
police officer making the arrest to search all persons so arrested, and the
officer in charge of the police station shall keep an accurate record of all
articles found upon the person of any prisoner and shall carefully preserve
them and produce them to the police judge upon trial. (2000 Code § 13-107; amd.
Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-1-8: ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE:
   An assistant chief of police may be designated by the city manager and shall
have charge of the police department in the absence of the chief of police.
(2000 Code § 13-108)
13-1-9: WEARING OF BADGE REQUIRED:
   Every member of the police department shall wear a suitable badge to be
furnished by the city, and any member who loses or destroys the same shall be
required to pay the cost of replacing it. Whenever any member leaves the force,
he shall immediately deliver his badge to the chief of police. No person except
the members of the department shall wear the badge adopted by the governing
body. (2000 Code § 13-109)
13-1-10: EMERGENCY SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Other Municipalities: Police officers of this agency, upon request of
the mayor or his designee, or chief of police or his designee, of any other
municipality, may serve as police officers in the municipality requesting their
assistance. While so serving, police officers of this agency shall have the
same police powers and duties as though employed by that municipality, in
accordance with state law.
   B.   County Sheriff Or State Highway Patrol: Police officers of this agency,
upon request of the county sheriff or his designee, or upon request by a member
of the Oklahoma highway patrol, may serve as law enforcement officers for the
sheriff's office or the Oklahoma highway patrol. While so serving, police
officers of this agency shall have the same powers and duties as though
employed by the requesting law enforcement agency and shall be deemed to be
acting within the scope of employment of the requesting agency, in accordance
with state law 1 . (Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 34-103, subsection A.
CHAPTER 2
RESERVE POLICE
SECTION:
13-2-1: Reserve Police Established
13-2-2: Purpose
13-2-3: Membership
13-2-4: Disciplinary Actions By City Police Chief
13-2-5: Training
13-2-6: Duties
13-2-7: Uniforms; Assignments
13-2-8: Regulations Subject To Council Review
13-2-1: RESERVE POLICE ESTABLISHED:
   There is hereby established a reserve police force for the city which shall
consist of such members as shall be chosen in accordance with this chapter. The
reserve police force cannot exceed in number the police department of the city.
(2000 Code § 13-201; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-2-2: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of the reserve police force is to assist and supplement the
police department in providing for the law enforcement duties of the city, in
such a manner as prescribed and provided for in rules and regulations of the
regular police force of the city, and those additional rules and regulations
prescribed for the reserve police force by the chief of police. In this regard,
it is understood that the city police chief, or his designee, is in charge of
the reserve police force and that all reserve police officers shall function in
the capacity of patrol officer. (2000 Code § 13-202)
13-2-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Minimum Qualifications: To become a member of the reserve police, an
applicant must meet the minimum qualifications of an applicant for the regular
police force as set forth by the chief of police, the city and state law.
   B.   Selection Procedure; Requirements: The chief of police will establish
procedures for the selection of the new members of the reserve police force,
which may include background investigations, review boards, drug testing,
polygraph examinations and any other procedure required by law.
   C.   Number Of Work Hours:
      1.   Members of the reserve police force may not work more than twenty
five (25) hours per calendar week, or as otherwise provided by law.
      2.   Members of the reserve police force shall work not less than eight
(8) hours, in not less than four (4) hour continuous increments, per month in a
patrol function or as assigned by the chief of police, or his designee. Any
member not meeting the eight (8) hour per month minimum work standard for three
(3) months in a twelve (12) month period shall be removed from the reserve
police force by the chief of police. (2000 Code § 13-203)
   D.   Amendment Of Rules And Regulations: Rules and regulations of the
reserve police force of the city may be amended by resolution or ordinance.
(2000 Code § 13-203; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-2-4: DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS BY CITY POLICE CHIEF:
   The police chief, or his designee, will be primarily responsible for the
discipline of the reserve police. The chief of police shall have the right to
suspend, reprimand, or dismiss a member of the reserve force for those reasons
set forth by departmental regulations, city charter, city ordinance, or state
law. (2000 Code § 13-204)
13-2-5: TRAINING:
   A.   Implementation Of Training Program: The chief of police, or his
designee, shall be responsible for implementing a program of training for the
reserve police to ensure that they are properly trained and certified as
required by state law for reserve police officers, to include continual
training in the carrying and use of weapons, lethal and nonlethal, the handling
of prisoners, the use of city equipment, the powers of arrest and other such
matters as the chief of police, or his designee, may deem appropriate. (2000
Code § 13-205)
   B.   Compliance With State Law:
      1.   The training of the reserve police force shall be as mandated by
state law, and such training will be conducted to the standards required by
state law for police officers generally. The Seminole police department may
itself provide the training to said reserve officers, under the direction of
the police chief.
      2.   A new member shall, as provided for by state law, attend and
complete a reserve police academy conducted by the state at the municipality's
expense. (2000 Code § 13-205; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
   C.   Performance Of Functions; Police Chief Approval Required: No new member
of the reserve police force shall perform any police function, carry any
weapons, or make any arrest without the authorization of the chief of police or
his designee. Said authorization shall not be given until the new member is
determined by the chief of police, or his designee, to be ready for such duty.
(2000 Code § 13-205)
13-2-6: DUTIES:
   A.   Authority: Since the purpose of the reserve police force is to assist
and support the city police department, the reserve police force will be used
primarily to aid and assist the members of the police department. When on duty
and in uniform, the reserve police officer will have the authority provided by
state law for municipal police officers.
   B.   Under Control Of Police Chief And Police Officers: When on duty, the
reserve police officer shall be under the control and authority of the chief of
police, his designee, the on duty regular police force supervisor, or the
regular police force officer present. (2000 Code § 13-206)
   C.   Perform Duties In Uniform: Reserve police officers shall perform police
duties only when in uniform, except in an emergency or when directed otherwise
by the chief of police or his designee. (2000 Code § 13-206; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-
12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-2-7: UNIFORMS; ASSIGNMENTS:
   A.   Reserve police members, except in emergency situations, shall perform
police functions only when on assigned duty and in uniform.
   B.   Uniforms of the reserve police officers shall be the same as those of
the regular police force or as directed by the chief of police. (2000 Code §
13-207; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
   C.   No member of the reserve police force shall make any change or deletion
to the standard uniform worn by the regular police force.
   D.   Members of the reserve police force are responsible for providing their
own uniforms and equipment of the type and nature specified by the chief of
police, if not provided by the city.
   E.   When on duty, members of the reserve force shall perform all those
duties performed by the regular police force. (2000 Code § 13-207)
13-2-8: REGULATIONS SUBJECT TO COUNCIL REVIEW:
   The rules and regulations pertaining to the reserve police force shall be
subject to periodic review by the city council. (2000 Code § 13-208)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE DEPARTMENT AND SERVICES
SECTION:
13-3-1: Department Created
13-3-2: Fire Chief
13-3-3: Personnel
13-3-4: Rules And Regulations
13-3-5: Equipment Responsibility
13-3-6: Volunteer Members Register Required
13-3-7: Fire Equipment; Vehicle
13-3-8: Use Of Public Fire Hydrants
13-3-9: Fires Outside City Limits
13-3-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
   There is created a fire department which shall be known and hereinafter
designated as the city fire department. (2000 Code § 13-301)
13-3-2: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications: The fire chief shall be the chief
executive officer of the fire department. No person shall be eligible for the
office of fire chief who has not had at least three (3) years of actual
experience as a firefighter prior to his appointment. The fire chief shall be
appointed by the city manager with the approval of the council. (2000 Code §
13-302)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Generally: The fire chief shall diligently perform the duties
imposed upon his office by the city manager and council. (2000 Code § 13-303)
      2.   Police Powers: While on active duty, the fire chief and members of
the fire department shall have such police powers as are necessary for the
efficient performance of their duties. The members shall have the right of
entry on all real property for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed
upon them.
      3.   Report: The chief of the fire department shall file a report with
the city giving in detail a report of each fire alarm and false alarm, the
names of members in attendance, time in service, location of fire, number of
first to appear, hours worked and any other matter that might serve to fully
acquaint the city council with the cause and extent of the fire. (2000 Code §
13-304)
13-3-3: PERSONNEL:
   A.   Appointment: The city manager shall appoint an assistant fire chief and
such other paid and volunteer firefighters as may be deemed necessary by the
council. (2000 Code § 13-305)
   B.   Tenure: The fire chief, assistant fire chief, and the paid and
volunteer firefighters shall hold office until removed by the city manager and
council for good and sufficient cause. (2000 Code § 13-306)
   C.   Department Membership; Salaries:
      1.   The fire department shall consist of a fire chief and other such
paid and volunteer fighters as may be provided by official action of the mayor
and council. Members shall hold office for the duration of their appointment
unless sooner removed by the appointing authority. The volunteer fire
department shall at no time exceed that number permitted by state law, unless
increase of its membership is authorized by special act of the city council.
(2000 Code § 13-307; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
      2.   There shall be at least two (2) paid members of the department, at
salaries to be fixed by the council.
      3.   Each member of the fire department shall be paid as the council from
time to time shall determine. Payment of members of the department shall be
made by warrants drawn upon the city treasurer. (2000 Code § 13-307)
13-3-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   Rules for the conduct and activities of the fire department shall be
established by the fire chief, subject to approval of the mayor and council,
and the rules and discipline shall be enforced by the fire chief. (2000 Code §
13-308)
13-3-5: EQUIPMENT RESPONSIBILITY:
   The fire chief shall be responsible for all equipment and apparatus
belonging to the department and shall make such reports concerning the
equipment and apparatus as the mayor and council may require. The city council
may procure fire engines, hooks and ladders, and other apparatus and prescribe
rules of duty for the government thereof, with such penalties as they may deem
proper, and make all necessary appropriations therefor. (2000 Code § 13-309)
13-3-6: VOLUNTEER MEMBERS REGISTER REQUIRED:
   The fire chief shall register with the clerk the names of each member of the
volunteer department together with a record of the length of service of each
member. (2000 Code § 13-310)
13-3-7: FIRE EQUIPMENT; VEHICLE:
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to ride upon the fire equipment
or vehicles of the fire department of the city. Special authorization may be
given by the fire chief if he requests such person to assist the department in
any way. (2000 Code § 13-311)
13-3-8: USE OF PUBLIC FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Interfering With Hydrants: Whoever opens any public hydrant, street
sprinkler or opens any stop cock, valve or other fixtures, or interferes with
the water supply from the time an alarm of fire is given until the signal of
"fire out" is given by the fire department, except under the direction of the
fire chief, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished and fined as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 13-
312)
   B.   Water Use From Hydrants: The regularly constituted fire companies of
the city shall at all times have the liberty to use water from fireplugs or
hydrants for the purpose of drilling, cleaning, washing or testing their fire
apparatus. (2000 Code § 13-313)
13-3-9: FIRES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   City Authority: The city is authorized and empowered to enter into
contracts or agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or
associations, or political subdivisions of the state for fire protection
outside the city limits, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly
with other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state.
   B.   Reimbursement For Services: Because of the finite equipment and
manpower available to fight fires within the greater city area, the city cannot
provide firefighting services to any person, firm or organization that has not
entered into a written contractual agreement to reimburse the city for services
rendered prior to the need for such services. Such contractual agreement shall
be made in a form and fashion approved by the city attorney and fire chief.
   C.   Charges Set By Resolution: The charges levied by the city for the use
of its firefighting equipment and personnel shall be as set by council by
motion or resolution. (2000 Code § 13-314)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
13-4-1: Fire Districts
13-4-2: Open Burning Within City Restricted
13-4-3: Overnight Accumulations Of Combustibles Prohibited
13-4-4: Penalty
13-4-1: FIRE DISTRICTS:
   The "fire district" shall be defined as all property located within the
corporate limits of the city of Seminole. (2000 Code § 13-403; amd. Ord. 1069,
2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-4-2: OPEN BURNING WITHIN CITY RESTRICTED:
   A.   Burning In Approved Incinerator: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to burn any trash, shavings or any other substance inside the city
limits except in an approved type of incinerator only upon written permission
of city manager, fire chief or his designee. (2000 Code § 13-404; amd. Ord.
1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
   B.   Attending To Fire: It is unlawful after lighting or igniting a fire to
leave the same unextinguished. (2000 Code § 13-404)
13-4-3: OVERNIGHT ACCUMULATIONS OF COMBUSTIBLES PROHIBITED:
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit any
shavings, trash or combustible substances to accumulate or be upon any property
overnight, within the fire district of the city. (2000 Code § 13-405)
13-4-4: PENALTY:
   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code.
(2000 Code § 13-406; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
CHAPTER 5
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
13-5-1: Emergency Management Organization
13-5-2: Department Of Emergency Management
13-5-3: Director Of Emergency Management
13-5-4: Plans, Information, Records
13-5-5: Emergency Powers
13-5-6: Enforcement Of Laws And Ordinances
13-5-7: Service Without Compensation; Nonliability For Injuries
13-5-8: Civil Emergencies; Authorization; Termination
13-5-9: Proclamation; Notice
13-5-10: Mayor; Emergency Powers
13-5-11: Violation; Penalty
13-5-1: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION:
   The purpose of this chapter is to create an emergency management
organization for the city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of,
emergencies endangering the lives and property of the people of the city. The
duty of such emergency management organization shall be the protection of the
lives and health of the citizens of the city and of property rights, both
private and public, and to perform all functions necessary and incident
thereto. (2000 Code § 13-501; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-5-2: DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT:
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of
the city a department of emergency management, which shall consist of a
director of emergency management who shall be appointed by the city manager and
serve at his pleasure. (2000 Code § 13-502; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-
13-2008)
13-5-3: DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT:
   A.   The director of emergency management shall be the executive head of the
department of emergency management and shall be responsible for carrying out
the emergency management program of the city. The emergency management director
shall serve subject to direction of the city manager. It is the duty of the
director of emergency management to perfect and maintain an organization to
carry out the purposes set forth in this chapter. The emergency management
director shall have all necessary power and authority to form committees or
other bodies and to appoint and designate the chairman or chief officer of such
bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an organization.
   B.   The director of emergency management shall have such further duty and
responsibility to cooperate with all emergency management agencies of other
governmental units including the state and federal governments. (2000 Code §
13-503; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-5-4: PLANS, INFORMATION, RECORDS:
   The director of emergency management is further authorized to formulate
written plans and gather information and keep written records thereof to govern
the functions of the emergency management organization. (2000 Code § 13-504;
amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-5-5: EMERGENCY POWERS:
   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the director of emergency management, after due authorization
from the mayor, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and
regulations relating to emergency management and, if necessary, take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He
shall cooperate when practical with the activities of other governmental
agencies or emergency management organizations. If required by the mayor, he
shall have control over any and all funds allocated from any source for the
purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the city. (2000 Code § 13-505;
amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-5-6: ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
   The director of emergency management and other members of the emergency
management organization created by him shall have the power and authority to
enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the city during the period of
emergency, and shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for
violations of such laws or ordinances. (2000 Code § 13-506; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-
12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-5-7: SERVICE WITHOUT COMPENSATION; NONLIABILITY FOR INJURIES:
   All members of the emergency management organization created hereunder, with
the exception of the director of emergency management, shall serve without
compensation; and the city shall not be liable for any personal injury received
by any member of such organization while acting in the line of duty. (2000 Code
§ 13-507; amd. Ord. 1069, 2-12-2008, eff. 3-13-2008)
13-5-8: CIVIL EMERGENCIES; AUTHORIZATION; TERMINATION: 1
   A.   The emergency powers conferred in this chapter shall be effective
immediately upon the issuance of a proclamation of the existence of emergency:
      1.   By a proper officer or agency of the state as provided by law; or
      2.   By the mayor as set forth in Section
2-3-6 of this Code;
      3.   By resolution of the city council if the council finds that the
disaster causing the emergency is local to the city and the surrounding
territory and is locally controllable, and it is so noted in the resolution.
   B.   If the urgency of the situation requires, the city manager is
authorized to declare the existence of emergency until such time as a state of
emergency may be officially declared as set forth herein. The exercise of the
emergency powers conferred in this section is limited to the duration of
emergency as determined according to law and by the provisions of this Code.
   C.   During the period of such local emergency, the exercise of emergency
powers shall be in conformity with all applicable provisions of the City
Charter and Code of Ordinances.
   D.   Locally proclaimed states of emergency may be terminated by the mayor,
or upon adoption by the city council of a resolution of termination not in
conflict with state laws. (Ord. 1241, 3-20-2020)
 
Notes
1 State Law reference: Emergency powers, 63 O.S. § 683.11
13-5-9: PROCLAMATION; NOTICE:
   A.   The proclamation of a state of emergency and other proclamations issued
pursuant to this section shall be in writing and shall be signed by the mayor
and filed with the city clerk.
   B.   The mayor shall give as much public notice as practical through all
means reasonably available of the issuance of proclamations pursuant to this
section. (Ord. 1241, 3-20-2020)
13-5-10: MAYOR; EMERGENCY POWERS:
   A.   In addition to the powers authorized in Section
2-3-6, the mayor shall be authorized to exercise special powers by proclamation
during the existence of a state of emergency in order to preserve the life,
health, safety and general welfare of the public, as well as to protect
property and maintain the public peace. Said emergency powers may further
include, but not be limited to, the ability to restrict or prohibit the
following:
      1.   Any person being on the public streets, or in the public parks or at
any other public place during the hours declared by the mayor to be a period of
curfew;
      2.   A designated number of persons from assembling or gathering on the
public streets, parks or other areas either public or private;
      3.   The manufacture, transfer, use, possession or transportation of any
flammable, combustible or explosive materials or any other device, instrument
or object designed to explode or produce uncontained combustion, except for
fuel, oil and lubricants in connection with the normal operation of motor
vehicles, normal home use or legitimate commercial use;
      4.   The possession of firearms or any other deadly weapon by a person
(other than a law enforcement officer) in a place other than that person's
place of residence or business;
      5.   The sale, purchase or dispensing of beer, alcoholic beverages,
marijuana or other intoxicating substances;
      6.   The sale, purchase or dispensing of certain foods, pharmaceuticals,
medical supplies other merchandise, commodities or goods, as he reasonably
believes should be prohibited to help preserve and maintain life, health,
property or the public peace;
      7.   The use of certain facilities, streets, highways or public ways;
      8.   Engaging in certain activities that increase the spread or
transmission of sickness or disease, or may subject the public to unknown or
unnecessary risks from exposure to any sickness, disease or other hazard; and
      9.   Such other activities as he reasonably believes should be prohibited
to help preserve and maintain life, health, safety and welfare of the public,
or to protect property or maintain the public peace.
   B.   In imposing the restrictions provided for in this section, or any other
order, the Mayor may impose them for such times, upon such conditions, with
such exceptions and in such areas he from time to time deems necessary. (Ord.
1241, 3-20-2020)
13-5-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY: 1
Any person violating a provision of this Chapter or any proclamation or order
issued pursuant hereto shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction be
punished according to the general penalty provisions set forth in Section
1-1-8 of this Code. Each day of noncompliance or individual incident of
disobedience shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1241, 3-20-2020)
 
Notes
1 State Law reference: Oklahoma Emergency Management Act of 2003, 63 O.S. §
  683.1 et seq.; local emergency management programs, 63 O.S. § 683.11
TITLE 14
STREETS AND PUBLIC WORKS
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS GENERALLY
SECTION:
14-1-1: Obstructions Designated
14-1-2: Water Flowing Upon Streets
14-1-3: Sidewalk Display Of Merchandise
14-1-4: Safety Requirements For Windowsills
14-1-5: Removal Of Snow And Ice
14-1-6: Penalty
14-1-1: OBSTRUCTIONS DESIGNATED:
   The following are declared to be obstructions to the streets and sidewalks
of the city:
   A.   Obstructing Traffic At Intersections: All trees, hedges, billboards or
other obstructions which prevent persons driving vehicles approaching an
intersection of public highways from having a clear view of traffic approaching
the intersection from cross streets, for one hundred feet (100') along the
cross streets measured from the property line.
   B.   Tree Limbs Projecting Over Streets And Sidewalks: All limbs of trees
which project over a public sidewalk or street and which are less than eight
feet (8') above the surface of the public sidewalk and eleven feet (11') above
the surface of the street.
   C.   Wires Over Streets, Public Grounds: All wires over streets, alleys or
public grounds which are strung less than twenty feet (20') above the surface
of the ground and all wires not licensed by the city.
   D.   Damaged Buildings, Walls, Structures: All buildings, walls and other
structures which have been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise, and which are
so situated as to endanger the safety of the public, or otherwise built,
erected or maintained in violation of this section.
   E.   Signs Hanging Over Streets, Sidewalks: All hanging signs, awnings and
other similar structures over the streets or sidewalks so situated or
constructed as to endanger public safety, and that are less than seven feet
(7') in the clear above the street or sidewalk.
   F.   Miscellaneous Obstructions; Permit Requirement: All gasoline pumps,
gasoline storage reservoirs, oil pumps, oil reservoirs, tire repair apparatus,
tire tools or equipment, water hose connections, storage reservoir inlets or
outlets, compressed air hose connections or housing for same, any merchandise
businesses or any tools, stand, equipment or appurtenances thereof, and any
radio aerials, poles and wires therefor, whether permanent or temporary, or any
other obstructions upon any part of the public streets, alleys or sidewalks,
unless a special permit is granted by the mayor and council, which permit, when
granted, may be revoked at any time.
   G.   Ice And Snow Falling From Buildings; Water Drainage: The allowing of
ice and snow to fall from any building or structure, or water to drain from any
cooling or refrigeration system upon any street, sidewalk, alley or driveway.
   H.   Riding Bicycles, Skateboards On Sidewalks: The driving, riding or use
of bicycles, skateboards, or roller skates on sidewalks located in retail or
commercial districts of the city. (2000 Code § 14-101)
14-1-2: WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS:
   It is unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon any
public thoroughfare except as directed by the director of public works. (2000
Code § 14-102; amd. Ord. 1076, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
14-1-3: SIDEWALK DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE:
   A.   Obstructing Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or
deposit or cause to be left or deposited upon any sidewalk, any article or
thing whatsoever that will obstruct or otherwise encumber the same, except as
expressly provided by ordinance.
   B.   Business Displays During Business Hours: Businesses in the city may
display merchandise for sale on the sidewalks in front of the business. Such
displays shall be arranged so that an area of passage of not less than seventy
two inches (72") in width shall remain unobstructed and such displays shall be
taken in at the close of business day.
   C.   Compliance Required: No displays of merchandise shall be placed on
sidewalks other than as permitted in subsection B of this section. (2000 Code §
14-103)
14-1-4: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR WINDOWSILLS:
   It is unlawful for any person to place or keep on any windowsill, porch or
other projection above the first story of any building abutting on any sidewalk
any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on the sidewalk in
front of such building, unless the article is securely fastened or protected by
screens. (2000 Code § 14-104)
14-1-5: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
   A.   Responsibility: It shall be the duty of the owner or tenant of any
premises abutting or adjoining any public sidewalk to remove all snow and ice
from the sidewalk. (2000 Code § 14-105)
   B.   Failure Of Owner To Remove; City Removal; Cost Assessment:
      1.   The city may give notice to any owner or tenant of any property to
remove snow and ice, which notice shall be given personally or, if personal
notice cannot be given, notice shall be sent by registered mail to the last
known address of the owner, tenant or occupant. The owner or occupant shall
have not more than twenty four (24) hours from and after receipt of the notice
within which to remove the snow and ice as set forth in the notice.
      2.   Upon failure of an owner or tenant to comply with the provisions of
the section, the city shall have the right to remove such snow and ice and
assess the cost thereof against the premises abutting the sidewalk. The
assessment shall be certified to the proper county official having charge of
the making of the assessment roll and the charge shall be placed on the
assessment roll and collected in the same manner as other municipal taxes are
collected. (2000 Code § 14-106)
14-1-6: PENALTY:
   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000
Code § 14-107)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATION AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
ARTICLE A. CUTTING, DIGGING PAVEMENT FOR CURBING
SECTION:
14-2A-1: Permits Required; Regulations
14-2A-2: Application For Permit
14-2A-3: Permit Fee
14-2A-4: Cash Deposit Required
14-2A-5: Franchisees; Holiday Or Weekend Work; Permit Required
14-2A-6: Damage To Property
14-2A-7: Temporary Sidewalk Construction
14-2A-8: Restoration Of Surface Required
14-2A-9: Inspection
14-2A-10: Penalty
14-2A-1: PERMITS REQUIRED; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Excavating In Street, Breaking Concrete:
      1.   A written permit authorizing any person, firm or corporation to
break up any pavement or concrete on and of the public streets, sidewalks, or
curbs adjacent thereto within the city or operated and controlled and under the
supervision of the city, or to make or dig any excavation in or on any public
street or sidewalk or curbs adjacent thereto must be secured from the office of
the city clerk.
      2.   All such excavations made, and streets, sidewalks or curbs torn up
shall be replaced and put in the same or better condition than before.
      3.   Any excavations made or ditches dug, or any pavement or concrete
broken up or torn out on any of the public streets, sidewalks or curbs adjacent
thereto by any person having a permit from the city as provided in this section
shall be subject to inspection by the street department supervisor, or building
inspector, as the case may be, and all work made on or to such streets,
sidewalks, curbs, or sewer lines or water lines shall have the final approval
of the city inspector as provided herein. (2000 Code § 14-201; amd. Ord. 1076,
3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Curb Cuts Tunneling Or Removal: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to tunnel under or make any excavation or remove or cut any curbing
in and on any street, alley or public way or place in the city without first
having obtained a permit as required in this article. (2000 Code § 14-202)
14-2A-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   Application for the permit required in subsection 14-2A-1B of this article
shall be made to the community services office, and such application shall
describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel or the curb or
curbing to be cut or removed, the size and area thereof, the purpose therefor,
and the person, firm or corporation doing the actual excavation work; and the
name of the person, firm or corporation for whom such work shall be done; and
shall contain an agreement that the applicant will comply with all the
ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done. (2000 Code § 14-203; amd.
Ord. 1076, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
14-2A-3: PERMIT FEE:
   The fee for such permit shall be as set by the city council by motion or
resolution. (2000 Code § 14-204)
14-2A-4: CASH DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Cash Deposit Required: No permit shall be issued to any person, firm or
corporation by the community services office of the city unless or until the
applicant has deposited with the community services office a cash deposit and
permit fee as set out in section 14-2A-3 of this article, which deposit and
permit fee shall be retained by the city for refinishing any of the excavation,
tunnel or curbing removed to bring the same up to standard before the
tunneling, cutting or excavation was made or curbing made or cut. The
applicant, person, firm or corporation doing the actual tunneling, excavation,
cutting or removing, or curbing shall fill in and rough in all tunneling done
or made and all excavation or curbing cut or removed, and the city will then
finish and bring the same up to standard using the deposit or permit money to
bring the same up to standard as before the same was cut or tunnel made or
curbing cut or removed. The deposit and amount paid as set forth in section 14-
2A-3 of this article shall be retained by the city to finish any work not
brought up to standard or any work or refills not finished by the applicant,
person, firm or corporation doing the same. (2000 Code § 14-205; amd. Ord.
1076, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Exemption: Any person, firm or corporation which is operating under a
current and valid franchise from the city for the use of streets, alleys and
ways in the city shall be exempt from payment of the cash deposit set out in
this section. (2000 Code § 14-205)
14-2A-5: FRANCHISEES; HOLIDAY OR WEEKEND WORK; PERMIT REQUIRED:
   When any person, firm or corporation which is operating under a current and
valid franchise from the city for the use of streets, alleys and ways in the
city shall be required to make any excavation or remove or cut any curbing on a
weekend or holiday, the person may make such excavation, removal or cutting,
and on the first working day following the holiday or weekend, he shall notify
the community services office and secure a permit showing the location thereof
as provided in section 14-2A-2 of this article. (2000 Code § 14-206; amd. Ord.
1076, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
14-2A-6: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Compliance With Permit And Regulations: It is unlawful to make any such
excavation or tunnel or cut or remove any curbs or curbing in any way contrary
to or at variance with the terms of the permit as issued therefor and as set
forth in the terms of this article.
   B.   Injury To Pipes, Cables; Notice To Maintenance Person: No injury shall
be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making of such excavation or
tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons maintaining any such pipes,
cables or conduits or to the city department or officer charged with the care
thereof, which are or may be endangered or affected by the making of any such
excavation or tunnel or removal and cutting of curbs before such pipe, cables
or conduits shall be disturbed.
   C.   Damaging Trees: No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any
tree or shrub or the roots thereof. (2000 Code § 14-207)
14-2A-7: TEMPORARY SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. (2000 Code § 14-208)
14-2A-8: RESTORATION OF SURFACE REQUIRED:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel or
cutting or removing any curbs or curbing upon or under any public street, alley
or any other public place in the city shall restore the surface to its original
condition if there is no pavement there. Refills shall be properly tamped down,
and any bracing of such excavation or tunnel shall be left in the ground.
   B.   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street or the cutting
of any curb or curbing shall be repaired or roughed in and the surface shall be
relaid by the applicant in compliance with the ordinances of the city and under
supervision of the superintendent of streets or building inspector having
jurisdiction thereof. (2000 Code § 14-209)
14-2A-9: INSPECTION:
   The superintendent of streets and/or the building inspector having
jurisdiction thereof shall from time to time cause to be inspected all
excavations and tunnels and/or curbing cut or removed or being made in or under
or upon any public street, alley or public way or other public place in the
city to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Proper notice
shall be given to such superintendent or building inspector within a reasonable
time before the work of refilling of any such tunnel, excavation or curbing
commences. (2000 Code § 14-210)
14-2A-10: PENALTY:
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 14-211)
ARTICLE B. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
14-2B-1: License Required; Bond; Fee
14-2B-2: Special Permit Required; Fee
14-2B-3: Materials, Standards And Specifications
14-2B-4: Penalty
14-2B-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; BOND; FEE:
   A.   Application For License: Any person, firm or corporation desiring to
engage in the business of sidewalk construction within the city limits shall
first make application in writing to the city clerk for a sidewalk contractor's
license. (2000 Code § 14-221)
   B.   Bond: The application shall be accompanied by a bond, to be approved by
the mayor and city council, in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) as a
guarantee that he will perform such duties as sidewalk contractor in compliance
with the city ordinances, and as a guarantee to maintain all sidewalks
constructed by him for a period of one year from the date of approval by the
building inspector.
   C.   License Fee: The sidewalk contractor license fee shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per year, payable in advance. It is unlawful to actively
engage in sidewalk construction until the license has been issued. (2000 Code §
14-221; amd. Ord. 1076, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
14-2B-2: SPECIAL PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required; Inspection: Before any licensed sidewalk contractor
begins the construction of any sidewalk in the city, such contractor shall
first make application in writing to the city clerk for a special permit to do
the work, and shall promptly notify the building inspector when the work is
completed and ready for inspection. (2000 Code § 14-222; amd. Ord. 1076, 3-11-
2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   License Fee: Upon the issuance of special permits, the licensed
sidewalk contractors shall pay a fee of six cents ($0.06) per linear foot of
walk constructed. The fees shall be collected by the clerk to cover the cost of
permit, the necessary engineering and inspection. (2000 Code § 14-222)
14-2B-3: MATERIALS, STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Sidewalk Specifications: Sidewalks constructed in any street, avenue,
alley or public ground in the city shall be constructed of concrete. The
material and method of construction shall be subject to the approval of the
building inspector. In excavating for concrete sidewalks, the ground shall be
brought to a subgrade of not less than four inches (4") below the finished
grade of the walks and the subgrade shall be thoroughly compacted. Upon the
foundation shall be placed a course of concrete not less than four inches (4")
deep and same to be composed of one part Portland cement, two (2) parts clean,
sharp sand, and three (3) parts of crushed durable stone or gravel, size not
less than one- fourth inch (1/4") or more than one inch (1") in greatest
dimensions. The concrete shall be tamped in suitable forms not less than four
inches (4") in depth and in a manner satisfactory to the building inspector.
The concrete walk shall be struck into sections not to exceed twenty five (25)
square feet surface area, and the space inside the forms shall be subdivided by
an approved expansion joint at least every twenty five (25) linear feet and the
same shall be completed with an approved finish. Approved expansion joints
shall be provided between all walks and curb.
   B.   Walks Over Areaways: Specifications for walks to be built over areaways
shall be furnished by the director of public works suitable for various
conditions as they may arise from time to time. Walks shall be constructed with
a flat surface pitching towards the curb one-fourth inch (1/4") to the foot.
Inside of walk shall be one and one-half feet (11/2') from property line unless
otherwise directed by the mayor and city council. (2000 Code § 14-224; amd.
Ord. 1076, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
14-2B-4: PENALTY:
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions in this
article shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code
§ 14-223)
CHAPTER 3
SHADE TREES
SECTION:
14-3-1: Protection From Insects And Worms Required
14-3-2: Trimming Trees
14-3-3: Stringing Wires
14-3-4: Penalty
14-3-1: PROTECTION FROM INSECTS AND WORMS REQUIRED:
   Each owner or occupant in front of or on whose lots shade trees have been
planted or are growing shall use every reasonable precaution to protect the
same from insects and worms. (2000 Code § 14-301)
14-3-2: TRIMMING TREES 1 :
   A.   Responsibility: It is made the duty of every person who is the owner of
or who as agent has the control of any real property or premises situated
within the limits of the city, abutting on any street, alley, sidewalk or other
place, upon being notified so to do, to trim and keep trimmed all trees on the
premises and the parking contiguous and adjacent thereto, the branches of which
overhang any portion of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public places,
in such manner that the lowermost branches thereof shall be at least eleven
feet (11') above the level of the portion of such streets and alleys, and eight
feet (8') above the level of the portion of such sidewalks or other places
overhung by the branches. (Ord. 1118, 6-8-2010)
   B.   Failure To Trim; City Work; Assessment Of Costs: If the owner or agent
having control of any premises, as described in subsection A of this section,
after having been notified so to do, and after the lapse of a reasonable time
thereafter, not to exceed ten (10) days, fails, neglects or refuses to comply
with the requirements of subsection A of this section, the code enforcement
official may cause the work to be done at the expense of the owner of the
premises, and any expense incurred in the doing of the same shall be assessed
against the premises and certified to the county treasurer for collection as
other taxes are collected. (2000 Code § 14-303; amd. Ord. 1076, 3-11-2008, eff.
4-10-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 14-1-1B of this title.
14-3-3: STRINGING WIRES:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful and an offense for any person to trim,
cut or otherwise mutilate any shade or ornamental trees on any street, parking
or other public place in the city for the purpose of stringing wires or cables
along or across the parking or other public place, without first obtaining a
permit therefor, in writing, from the director of public works, which shall be
filed with the clerk. (2000 Code § 14-304; amd. Ord. 1076, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-
10-2008)
   B.   Supervision: Whenever any telephone, telegraph or electric light and
power company or any other person with authority to use the streets for such
purposes, desires to string any wires or cables along or across any of the
street parkings, or any part thereof on the street parking, or other public
place, the person shall make application to the director of public works, and
if he is of the opinion that it is necessary for the proper stringing of the
wires to trim or cut any such trees, and the same can be done without serious
injury to the trees, he shall issue his written permit, stating the nature, and
extent of such trimming or cutting, which shall be filed with the clerk as
heretofore provided; provided, that all such trimming or cutting shall be done
under the direct supervision and control of the director of public works or his
designee. (2000 Code § 14-305; amd. Ord. 1076, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
14-3-4: PENALTY:
   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided by section 1-1-8 of this code.
(2000 Code § 14-306)
TITLE 15
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; DEFINITIONS; PENALTY
SECTION:
15-1-1: Short Title
15-1-2: Adoption Of State Traffic Code
15-1-3: Traffic Code Controlling
15-1-4: Definitions
15-1-5: Obedience To Traffic Code
15-1-6: Penalty
15-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
   This title and all amendments hereto may be cited or referred to as the
TRAFFIC CODE, CITY OF SEMINOLE, and may so appear upon all official documents,
records or instruments. (2000 Code § 15-101)
15-1-2: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE:
   There is adopted by reference and made a part of this section all of the
provisions of chapters 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 of the state highway safety code,
all as found in title 47 1 , a copy of which is on file in the office of the
city clerk for public use, inspection and examination. All of these provisions
are made a part of the traffic ordinances of the city. All of the provisions
found in these chapters are hereby vitalized as provided in the laws by this
section, specific reference to which is hereby made, as well as all subsequent
amendments to the laws, and all of the laws as well as amendments thereto shall
be in full force and effect within the city insofar as the laws are not
modified by other provisions in this title or amendments thereto. (2000 Code §
15-104; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
 
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 10-101 et seq.
15-1-3: TRAFFIC CODE CONTROLLING:
   Except as specifically provided by law as set forth in this title, the
traffic code shall be controlling in the use of city streets, alleys,
thoroughfares, parks, parkways or any other public rights of way or city owned
land, by pedestrians and by vehicles of every kind whether self-propelled or
otherwise and whether moving or at rest. (2000 Code § 15-102)
15-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this title:
   ALLEY: Any narrow highway ordinarily located in the interior portion of
platted blocks and ordinarily used for service or delivery purposes at the rear
of stores, dwellings, or buildings.
   AMBULANCE: A motor vehicle constructed, reconstructed or arranged for the
purpose of transporting ill, sick, or injured persons.
   BICYCLE: A device upon which any person or persons may ride, propelled
solely by human power through a belt, chain, or gears, and having two (2) or
more wheels, excluding mopeds.
   BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons, and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to, and including a highway if
there are buildings within six hundred feet (600') of the highway in use for
business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks,
or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at
least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred feet
(300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
   CENTER LANE: Any clearly marked center lane. If the center lane is not
marked and no cars are parked on the roadway, then the center lane is equally
distanced between the curbs or traveled portion of the roadway. In the event a
vehicle or vehicles are parked on one side of the roadway only, then the center
lane is equally distanced from the side of the parked vehicle or vehicles
toward the street and curb on the opposite roadway. If vehicles be parked on
each side of the roadway, then the center lane is equally distanced from the
edges of the parked vehicles.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs; or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway. "Crosswalk" also means any portion of a roadway at an
intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
   DAYTIME: One-half (1/2) hour before sunrise to one-half (1/2) hour after
sunset. "Nighttime" means at any other hours.
DOUBLE PARK: Parking or stopping a vehicle on the roadway side of another
vehicle already parked adjacent to the edge or curbing of the roadway.
   DRIVER OR OPERATOR: Every person who operates, drives or is in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle or who is exercising control over or
steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseeable occurrence of temporary duration causing or
resulting in an abnormal increase in traffic volume, cessation or stoppage of
traffic movement, or creation of conditions hazardous to normal traffic
movement, including fire, storm, accident, riot, or spontaneous assembly of
large numbers of pedestrians in such a manner as to impede the flow of traffic.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the fire department, police vehicles and
ambulances.
   GROSS WEIGHT: The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY: See definition of Street Or Highway.
   INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadway of two (2) streets, which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets join at any other angle, may come in conflict; or
   B.   Where a street includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an
intersecting street shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting street also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such streets shall be
regarded as separate intersections.
   LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LIMIT LINES: Boundaries of parking areas, loading zones and nontraffic areas
and lines indicating the proper place for stopping where stops are required.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: See definition of Controlled Access Highway.
   LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or material. A "freight
curb loading zone" is a loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of freight; a "passenger curb loading zone" is a
loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading
of passengers.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled, not including implements
of husbandry, electric personal assistive mobility devices, motorized
wheelchairs, or vehicles moved solely by human or animal power.
   MOTORCYCLE, MOTOR SCOOTER, AND MOTOR BICYCLE: A motor vehicle, other than a
tractor, having a seat or saddle for the use of the driver and designed to
travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground.
   OFFICIAL TIME: Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean
Central Standard Time, or Central Daylight Saving Time, as may be in current
use in the city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: All signs, barricades, signals, markings,
and devices not inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of
a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic.
   PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers, provided such loading is in an
authorized place.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the municipal police department, or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY: A way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular traffic by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars other than streetcars
operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR RAILROAD SIGNAL: Any sign, signal, or device erected by
authority of a public official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of
the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulders. In the event a street includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway, separately, but not to all such roadways,
collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times, while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned by a public governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
   SCHOOL ZONE: All streets or portions of streets immediately adjacent to a
school, or school ground, where same is adjacent and for a distance of three
hundred feet (300') in each direction.
   SHOULDER: The portion of the roadway contiguous with the traveled way for
accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral support
of base and surface courses.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or at lateral
lines of the roadway and adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STAND OR STANDING: Any stopping of a vehicle whether occupied or not.
   STOP: When required, shall mean the complete cessation from movement.
   STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
traffic signal.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY: A street or highway or portion thereof on which
vehicular traffic is given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to
which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to yield right of way to vehicles on such through street or highway in
obedience to either a stop sign or a yield sign, when such signs are erected as
provided by law.
   TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either singularly or together, while using any highway or street
for purpose of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
proceed.
U-TURN: A turn by which a vehicle reverses its course of travel on the same
street.
   URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of
one-fourth (1/4) mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is, or may
be, transported, or drawn, upon a highway or street, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. The term
"vehicle" shall not include implements of husbandry, electric personal
assistive mobility devices, or motorized wheelchairs. (2000 Code § 15-103; amd.
Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
15-1-5: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE:
   A.   It is an offense against the city for any person to do any act
forbidden or to fail to perform any act required by this title.
   B.   It is an offense against the city for the parent of any child or for
the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this title.
   C.   It is an offense for any person to authorize or knowingly to permit any
vehicle registered in his or her name to be driven or to stand or to be parked
in violation of any of the provisions of this title. (2000 Code § 15-1401)
15-1-6: PENALTY:
   Every person violating any of the provisions of this title containing the
traffic laws of the city shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined or punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code.
(2000 Code § 15-1402)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
15-2-1: Enforcement By Police Department
15-2-2: Direction Of Traffic
15-2-3: Obedience To Police And Fire Officials
15-2-4: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
15-2-5: Pushcarts; Animals; Animal Drawn Vehicles
15-2-6: Coasters, Roller Skates And Similar Devices
15-2-7: Public Officers And Employees, Obey Traffic Regulations
15-2-8: Persons Working On Streets, Exceptions
15-2-9: Maintenance And Construction Zones
15-2-10: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-2-11: Fire Apparatus And Fire Hose Restrictions
15-2-12: State Vehicle And Driver's License Requirements
15-2-13: Insurance Or Certificate Required
15-2-14: Accidents, Duty To Stop
15-2-15: Eluding Police Officer
15-2-16: Striking Unattended Vehicle Or Fixture
15-2-17: Seat Belts Required
15-2-18: Traffic Violations; Citation Issuance And Compliance
15-2-1: ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department, or any
officers that are so assigned by the chief of police, to enforce all street
traffic laws of the city and all the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the city. Officers of the department shall make arrests for traffic
violations, investigate accidents, and cooperate with other officers in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the
department by this title and any traffic ordinances of the city. (2000 Code §
15-201)
15-2-2: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC:
   A.   By Hand Or Voice:
      1.   Officers of the police department, or any officers designated by the
chief of police, are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand, or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
      2.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity. (2000 Code § 15-202)
   B.   By Unauthorized Persons: No unauthorized person shall direct or attempt
to direct traffic except in case of emergency where no officer is present.
(2000 Code § 15-203)
15-2-3: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS:
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official. (2000 Code § 15-204)
15-2-4: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   The city manager, subject to any directions which the council may give
by motion or resolution, is empowered to adopt regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the city and to make
temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than ninety (90) days.
   B.   The city manager may have traffic control devices tested under actual
conditions of traffic. (2000 Code § 15-205)
15-2-5: PUSHCARTS; ANIMALS; ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES:
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(2000 Code § 15-206)
15-2-6: COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES:
   A.   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster,
toy vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing
a street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such person shall be subject to
all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
   B.   This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play
street as authorized by ordinances of the city. (2000 Code § 15-207)
15-2-7: PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES, OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this title shall apply to
the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the service of the United States
government, any state, county, city, or governmental unit or agency, as well as
to other vehicles.
   B.   Compliance By Drivers: It is unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this
title by state statute.
   C.   Exception; Military Duty: This title shall not apply to the military
forces of the United States and organizations of the national guard when
performing any military duty. (2000 Code § 15-208)
15-2-8: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS, EXCEPTIONS:
   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title, except
those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not
apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles,
and other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance, or
repair of public utilities. All street or highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices, or flag
persons. The provisions of this title shall apply to any of the persons and
vehicles exempted by this section when traveling to and from such work. (2000
Code § 15-209)
15-2-9: MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   Authority To Close Street During Construction: City personnel or
contractors, while repairing or improving the streets of the city, and city
personnel and utility companies, when installing, improving, or repairing lines
or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby authorized as necessary,
subject to control by the city clerk, to close any street or section thereof to
traffic during such repair, maintenance, or construction. In exercising this
authority, the appropriate personnel, contractor or utility company shall erect
or cause to be erected proper control devices and barricades to warn and notify
the public that the street has been closed to traffic.
   B.   Driving Through Closed Area Prohibited; Exceptions: When any street has
been closed to traffic under the provisions of subsection A of this section and
traffic control devices or barricades have been erected, it is unlawful for any
person to drive any vehicle through, under, over, or around such traffic
control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the closed area. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons entering the closed
area or zone for the protection of lives or property. Persons having their
places of residence or places of business within the closed area may travel,
when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   C.   Traffic Control Devices Required: Whenever construction, repair, or
maintenance of any street or utility line or facility is being performed under
traffic, the city personnel, contractor, or utility company concerned shall
erect, or cause to be erected, traffic control devices to warn and guide the
public. Every person using the street shall obey all signs, signals, markings,
flag persons, or other traffic control devices which are placed to regulate,
control, and guide traffic through the construction or maintenance area. (2000
Code § 15-210)
15-2-10: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Drivers Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to
the conditions stated in this section.
      2.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may do any of the
following when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or
ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm:
         a.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as life or property is
not endangered; or
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specific directions.
      3.   The exemptions granted in this subsection to an authorized emergency
vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of
audible and visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      4.   The provisions of this subsection shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (2000 Code §
15-211)
   B.   Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle:
      1.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of this state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
      2.   This subsection shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway. (2000 Code § 15-212)
15-2-11: FIRE APPARATUS AND FIRE HOSE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Following Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm. (2000 Code § 15-213)
   B.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a fire department used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the
consent of the fire department official in command. (2000 Code § 15-214)
15-2-12: STATE VEHICLE AND DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Possession Of Valid Driver's License Required:
      1.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the highways without
having in his possession at all times, when operating such motor vehicle, an
unrevoked or unsuspended operator's or chauffeur's license as required by the
laws of the state, unless such person is specifically exempted from such laws
by the provisions thereof. No person charged with violating this subsection
shall be convicted if he produces in court an operator's or chauffeur's license
issued to him and valid at the time of his arrest.
      2.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner in violation
of any restriction that may be imposed in a restricted license issued to him
with respect to the type of, or special mechanical control devices required on
a, motor vehicle or any other restriction applicable to the licensee as the
state may determine. (2000 Code § 15-215)
   B.   Operation On Invalid License Prohibited: No person shall operate a
motor vehicle when his privilege to do so is cancelled, suspended, revoked or
denied. Any person convicted of violating this subsection shall be punished by
a fine as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. Each act of driving on the
streets or highways as prohibited by this section shall constitute a separate
offense. (2000 Code § 15-216)
   C.   Operation Of Vehicle Without State Vehicle License: It is unlawful to
operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of the city without a state vehicle
license as may be required by law or to fail to display the state vehicle
license as may be required by law. (2000 Code § 15-217)
   D.   Permitting Unauthorized Person To Drive: No person shall authorize or
knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or under his control to be driven
upon any highway by any person who is not authorized under the provisions of
the laws of the state to operate such vehicle. (2000 Code § 15-218)
15-2-13: INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 7-606.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon the named
person by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by the named
person of any motor vehicle not owned by the named person, subject to the same
limits of liability required in an owner's policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204.
   SECURITY: 1. A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a
policy or bond;
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section 7-503, having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
      4.   For vehicles registered pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 7-204; provided, that the policy or bond may be issued by an
insurance company or surety company authorized to do business in the state of
residence or domicile of the member of the armed forces and the motor license
agent or other registering agency shall accept the security verification form
issued by such insurance company or surety company.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the state insurance
commissioner, verifying the existence of security required by the compulsory
insurance law of the state of Oklahoma.
   B.   Proof Of Insurance Required: The owner of a motor vehicle registered in
this state, and operating the vehicle within the city boundaries, shall carry
in such vehicle at all times a current owner's security verification form
listing the vehicle, or an equivalent form which has been used by the state
department of public safety, and shall produce such form upon request for
inspection by any law enforcement officer; and in case of a collision, the form
shall be shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   C.   Exemptions: The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or
operator's security verification form or an equivalent form from the department
during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such
form for vehicle registration purposes:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the state department of public
safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy;
      3.   Fleet vehicles maintaining current vehicle liability insurance as
required by the state corporation commission or any other regulating entity;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer.
   D.   Operator To Carry Security Verification; Penalty For Violation:
      1.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall,
while operating or using such vehicle within the city boundaries, carry either
an operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a carrier or
an equivalent form issued by the state department of public safety, reflecting
liability coverage. An owner's security verification form issued to the owner
of a motor vehicle may be used as an operator's security verification form by
an operator who is not the owner of the motor vehicle, if said operator is not
excluded from coverage on the motor vehicle liability insurance policy for the
vehicle. Any such exclusions from said policy shall be included on the owner's
security verification form.
      2.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the state department of public safety upon request of any peace officer of the
department shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be subject to a fine as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code.
      3.   A sentence imposed for any violation of this subsection may be
suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
      4.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the state
department of public safety reflecting this liability coverage for such person
was in force at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal
of such charge.
      5.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk shall forward an abstract to the state department of public safety within
ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court. (2000 Code § 15-230;
amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
15-2-14: ACCIDENTS, DUTY TO STOP:
   A.   Driver Responsibilities At Scene: The driver of any vehicle involved in
an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any
vehicle or property shall immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such
accident, or as close thereto as possible, return to and remain at the scene of
the accident until he has given his name, address and the registration of his
vehicle and shall upon request exhibit his driver's license to the person
injured or the driver or occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided
with. The driver of any vehicle involved in such accident shall render to any
person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying
or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician, surgeon
or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that this
treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person. Each
such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   B.   Report Accident: The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner
involved in an accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or
in which it is apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in
excess of three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report
such accident to a police officer or to the police department. If a driver
makes out a written report of the accident in the office of the police
department as soon as practicable after the accident, which report is to be
forwarded to the state department of public safety in accordance with state
law, the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance with this section.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of
the requirements of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code.
(2000 Code § 15-219)
15-2-15: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER:
   No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible
signal directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall wilfully
increase his speed or extinguish his lights or in any other manner attempt to
or actually elude such law enforcement officer. A "visual or audible signal",
for the purpose of this section, means a red light and a siren from a law
enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to
be an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol vehicle. (2000 Code § 15-227;
amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
15-2-16: STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR FIXTURE:
   A.   Unattended Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle which collides with any
vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop, and shall then and there
either locate and notify the operator or owner of the vehicle, of the correct
name and address of the driver and the owner of the vehicle striking the
unattended vehicle, or shall leave in a conspicuous place in or on the vehicle
struck a written notice giving the correct name and address of the driver and
of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking, and shall provide the same
information to the officer having jurisdiction. (2000 Code § 15-228)
   B.   Fixture Upon Public Way: The driver of any vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in damage to fixtures legally upon or adjacent to a street
shall take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge
of such property of the fact, and of his name and address, and of the
registration number of the vehicle he is driving, and shall exhibit his
operator's or chauffeur's license. If the operator's or chauffeur's license is
not in his possession at that time, the driver shall exhibit other valid
evidence of identification, and shall report such accident when and as required
by law. (2000 Code § 15-230)
15-2-17: SEAT BELTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Restraint Required: Every operator and front seat passenger of a
passenger car operated in the city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
safety seat belt system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when
manufactured pursuant to federal motor vehicle safety standard 208 1 . For the
purposes of this section, "passenger car" shall mean "vehicle", as defined in
47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1102. "Passenger car" shall include the passenger
compartment of pickups, vans, minivans, and sport utility vehicles. "Passenger
car" shall not include trucks, truck-tractors, recreational vehicles,
motorcycles, or motorized bicycles or a vehicle used primarily for farm use
which is registered and licensed pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1134.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   The state commissioner of public safety, upon application from a
person who, for medical reasons, is unable to wear a safety seat belt system
supported by written attestation of such fact from a physician licensed
pursuant to 59 Oklahoma Statutes section 495, may issue to the person an
exemption from the provisions of this section. The exemption shall be in the
form of a restriction appearing on the driver's license of the person and shall
remain in effect until the expiration date of the driver's license. Nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to prevent the person from applying for
another exemption as provided for in this section. The issuance of an
attestation by a physician and the subsequent issuance of an exemption by the
commissioner, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall the physician
and the state thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of failure of the person to wear a safety seat
belt system.
      2.   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who
is a route carrier of the U.S. postal service.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
punished by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00) or the maximum allowed by state law,
plus court costs. (2000 Code § 15-231; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-
2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 49 CFR § 571.208.
15-2-18: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; CITATION ISSUANCE AND COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Issuance Of Citation Tags:
      1.   The chief of police is hereby authorized and directed to supply
police officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original
and at least two (2) duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to
persons violating any provision of this title.
      2.   Notice may be given by delivering the tag to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
      3.   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to abridge the power
of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody. (2000
Code § 15-220)
      5.   The city manager may require that the police officers use citation
tags and that such tags are serially numbered, and may regulate the use and
handling of the citation tags. (2000 Code § 15-220; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008,
eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Failure To Obey Citation: It shall be unlawful and an offense for any
person to violate his written promise to appear, given to an officer upon the
issuance of a traffic citation regardless of the disposition of the charge for
which citation was originally issued. (2000 Code § 15-221)
   C.   Parking Violation; Failure To Comply With Citations: If a violator of
the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under the traffic laws or
ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation affixed to such
motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the clerk of the municipal
court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the traffic citation
was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and warning him that in the
event such letter is disregarded for a period of five (5) days, a warrant of
arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2) or more such traffic
citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the traffic citations
have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the
letter provided in this section. (2000 Code § 15-222)
   D.   Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking:
      1.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
      2.   The presumption in subsection D1 of this section shall apply only
when the procedure as prescribed in this section has been followed. (2000 Code
§ 15-223)
   E.   Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citations: It shall be unlawful for any
person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any
manner other than as provided by this section. (2000 Code § 15-224)
   F.   Disposition And Records Of Traffic Citations, Warrants, Complaints:
      1.   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of the city, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to
be delivered to the municipal court.
      2.   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
      3.   The chief of police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued
by the municipal court which are delivered to the police department for
service, and of the final disposition of the warrants.
      4.   No member of the police department or other officer or public
employee shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy
thereof, or the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation,
complaint, or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this section.
(2000 Code § 15-225)
   G.   Court Records; Abstract Sent To State:
      1.   The municipal judge shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court in reference thereto, including, but not limited
to, a record of every conviction, forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal,
and the amount of fine or forfeiture. (2000 Code § 15-226; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-
11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
      2.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state department of public safety a
certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
      3.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state
department of public safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his operator's or chauffeur's license, the registration
number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing,
the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine
or forfeiture. (2000 Code § 15-226)
CHAPTER 3
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
15-3-1: Vehicles Injurious To Streets
15-3-2: Obstructive And Dangerous Vehicles; Permit
15-3-3: Equipment
15-3-4: Mufflers, Cutouts
15-3-5: Width, Height, Length And Load; Permit
15-3-1: VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS:
   No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street shall be driven or moved on any street. (2000 Code § 15-301)
15-3-2: OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES; PERMIT:
   No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
chief of police and in accordance with the terms of such permit. (2000 Code §
15-302)
15-3-3: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Compliance With Statute: Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the
city shall be equipped as required by law.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful, upon the streets of the city:
      1.   To operate a vehicle which is not equipped as required by law.
      2.   To fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law.
      3.   To use a vehicle in a manner prohibited by law.
      4.   To operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law. (2000
Code § 15-303)
15-3-4: MUFFLERS, CUTOUTS:
   A.   Every vehicle shall be equipped, maintained, and operated so as to
prevent excessive or unusual noise. Every motor vehicle shall at all times be
equipped with a muffler or other effective noise suppressing system in good
working order and in constant operation, and no person shall use a muffler
cutout, bypass or similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of
a motor vehicle in any manner which will amplify or increase the noise or sound
emitted louder than that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the
vehicle.
   B.   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke, or
both. (2000 Code § 15-304; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
15-3-5: WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH AND LOAD; PERMIT:
   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
length, height, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the chief of
police. (2000 Code § 15-305)
CHAPTER 4
SPEED REGULATIONS
SECTION:
15-4-1: Speed Limits Generally; Exceptions
15-4-2: School Zones
15-4-3: Reasonable Or Prudent Speed For Existing Conditions
15-4-4: Minimum Speed Requirements; Exception
15-4-5: Obedience To Maximum And Minimum Speed Limits
15-4-1: SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Speed Limits Designated; Exceptions: No vehicle shall be driven at a
greater speed than twenty five (25) miles per hour upon any street or highway
within the city fire limits, or elsewhere in the city at a speed greater than
thirty (30) miles per hour; except on designated state and federal highways,
the maximum speed limits shall be as set by the city council and posted.
Exceptions to the city speed limit regulations are:
      1.   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this title;
      2.   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted; or
      3.   When a different speed limit is established in this title.
   B.   Council Authority To Increase Or Decrease Speed Limits: The city
council, by motion or resolution, may reduce or increase the speed limits
provided in this title, and when it does so, appropriate signs shall be placed
on such streets or parts of streets indicating the lower or higher speed limit.
(2000 Code § 15-401)
15-4-2: SCHOOL ZONES:
   No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than the speed per hour posted
between the hours as posted on any street adjacent to any school in a
designated school zone on days when school is in session, unless a different
speed limit or time is otherwise designated and posted. (2000 Code § 15-402)
15-4-3: REASONABLE OR PRUDENT SPEED FOR EXISTING CONDITIONS:
   No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater or less than is
reasonable or prudent under the conditions then existing, taking into
consideration, among other things, the conditions of the vehicle, the traffic,
roadway surface or width, the amount of light or darkness, the presence of
pedestrians in or near the roadways, and the obstruction of view. No person
shall drive any vehicle at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to
a stop within the assured clear distance ahead. (2000 Code § 15-403)
15-4-4: MINIMUM SPEED REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION:
   No vehicle shall be driven at such an unreasonably slow speed in relation to
the effective maximum speed allowed as to constitute a hazard or to interfere
with the normal movement of other traffic except when the slow speed is
unavoidable. (2000 Code § 15-404)
15-4-5: OBEDIENCE TO MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM SPEED LIMITS:
   Where official signs and markings give notice of both maximum and minimum
speed limits in effect on any street, no vehicle shall be driven at rates in
excess of the maximum nor slower than the minimum, except as required by an
authorized officer or in obedience to posted official signs. (2000 Code § 15-
405)
CHAPTER 5
DRIVING, OVERTAKING, PASSING
SECTION:
15-5-1: Changing Lanes
15-5-2: Driving On Right Side Required; Exceptions
15-5-3: Overtaking On Right Or Left
15-5-4: Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Direction
15-5-5: One-Way Roadways And Rotary Traffic Islands
15-5-6: Following Too Closely
15-5-7: No Passing Zones
15-5-8: Funeral And Other Processions
15-5-9: School Zones And School Bus Restrictions
15-5-10: Driving On Sidewalk Prohibited; Exception
15-5-11: Limitations On Backing Vehicle
15-5-12: Motorcycles, Bicycles And Motor Scooters
15-5-13: Clinging To Vehicles Prohibited
15-5-14: Entering And Leaving Controlled Access Highways
15-5-15: Reckless Driving
15-5-16: Careless Or Negligent Driving, Stopping Or Parking
15-5-17: Vehicle Operation In Careful And Prudent Manner
15-5-18: Driving While Under Influence Of Drugs Or Alcohol
15-5-19: Unattended Vehicles
15-5-20: Coasting Unlawful
15-5-21: Attention To Driving Required
15-5-22: Speed Contest Prohibited
15-5-23: Driving Through Safety Zone
15-5-24: Starting Parked Vehicle
15-5-25: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
15-5-26: Obstruction To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
15-5-27: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicle
15-5-28: Unlawful Riding
15-5-29: Railroad Trains And Tracks, Restrictions
15-5-30: Private Service Drives
15-5-31: Truck Routes
15-5-32: Loads On Vehicles
15-5-33: Vehicle Approaching Or Entering Intersection
15-5-34: Vehicle Turning Left At Intersection
15-5-35: Vehicle Approaching Yield Right Of Way Sign
15-5-36: Vehicle Entering Through Highway
15-5-37: Vehicle Facing Stop, Slow Or Caution Signal
15-5-38: Through Streets
15-5-39: Intersections Where Stop Or Yield Required
15-5-40: Stop Or Yield Sign Construction And Placement
15-5-41: Vehicle Entering Stop Or Yield Intersections
15-5-42: Vehicle Entering Highway From Private Road Or Driveway
15-5-43: Vehicle Entering Traffic From Parking
15-5-44: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
15-5-45: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
15-5-46: Left Hand Turns Into Angle Parking Prohibited
15-5-1: CHANGING LANES:
   A.   Two Marked Lanes: Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or
more clearly marked lanes for traffic, in addition to all other rules
consistent with this subsection, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practicable entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from the lane
until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety and has signaled for a change of course.
   B.   Unmarked Streets: Where streets or roadways do not have marked traffic
lanes, vehicles shall nevertheless keep in line or follow a straight course as
nearly as practicable and shall not weave in and out or turn from side to side
unnecessarily. Vehicles shall move to the right or left only as necessary in
slowing or stopping adjacent to the curb, in passing slow moving vehicles or
making a proper approach for a turn, and this only after the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made safely and has signaled for a change
of course.
   C.   Three Marked Lanes: Upon a roadway which has been divided into three
(3) lanes, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and
such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation
for a left turn, or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively
to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted
to give notice of such allocation.
   D.   Slow Moving Traffic: Official signs may be erected directing slow
moving traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used
by traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway. Drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(2000 Code § 15-501)
15-5-2: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Driving On Right Side; Exceptions: Upon all roadways of sufficient
width, a vehicle shall be driven to the right of the center of the roadway,
except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; and
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   B.   Divided Highways: All vehicles shall keep to the right roadway on all
streets or highways which are divided into two (2) roadways.
   C.   Slow Traffic, Right Hand Lane: Upon all roadways, any vehicle
proceeding at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and
under the conditions then existing shall be driven in the right hand lane then
available for traffic, or as close as practicable to the right hand curb or
edge of the roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an
intersection or into a private road or driveway. (2000 Code § 15-502)
15-5-3: OVERTAKING ON RIGHT OR LEFT:
   A.   When Overtaking On Right Permitted:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction; or
         c.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (2000 Code § 15-503)
   B.   Overtaking On Left:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the street or roadway until safely clear of
the overtaken vehicle.
      2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (2000 Code § 15-504)
   C.   Limitations On Overtaking On Left:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
street or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the completion of the
overtaking and passing without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every instance, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of
the roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction.
      2.   No vehicle at any time shall be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
         a.   When approaching the crest of a grade, or upon a curve in the
street or highway where the driver's view along the street or highway is
obstructed; or
         b.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any bridge,
viaduct or tunnel or when approaching within fifty feet (50') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing. (2000 Code § 15-505)
15-5-4: PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTION:
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite direction shall pass each other
to the right. Upon roadways having a width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half (1/2) the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(2000 Code § 15-506)
15-5-5: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   A.   The city may designate any road, street, alley, or highway, or any
separate roadway under their jurisdiction for one-way traffic and shall cause
appropriate signs giving notice thereof to be erected.
   B.   Whenever the city designates any street or alley or part thereof as a
one-way street or alley, the street department shall have placed and maintained
signs giving notice thereof; and no such regulation shall be effective unless
such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   C.   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts
of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the direction indicated when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   D.   Upon roadways designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   E.   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island. (2000 Code § 15-507)
15-5-6: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the roadway. (2000 Code §
15-508; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
15-5-7: NO PASSING ZONES:
   A.   Authority To Determine: The state department of transportation, as
regards state and federal highways, and the city as regards all other streets,
are hereby authorized to determine those portions of any highway where
overtaking and passing to the left would be especially hazardous, and may, by
appropriate signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of
such zones. When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person, every driver shall obey the directions thereof.
   B.   Signs And Markings Required; Compliance: Where signs or markings are in
place to define a no passing zone as set forth in subsection A of this section,
no driver shall at any time drive to the left side of the roadway within the no
passing zone or on the left side of any pavement striping designed to mark the
no passing zone throughout its length. (2000 Code § 15-509)
15-5-8: FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Prohibited; Exceptions: No driver of a vehicle shall
drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession
while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as
required in this title. This provision shall not apply at intersections where
traffic is controlled by traffic control signals or police officers. (2000 Code
§ 15-510)
   B.   Drivers In Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe. (2000 Code §
15-511)
   C.   Funeral Processions Identified: A funeral composed of a procession of
vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each
vehicle of such identifying insignia as may be determined and designated by the
police department. (2000 Code § 15-512)
15-5-9: SCHOOL ZONES AND SCHOOL BUS RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Overtaking And Passing In School Zones:
      1.   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in
motion and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on all days
when schools are in session.
      2.   Wherever a school zone is located on a multiple lane street which is
divided into three (3) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic or where the
right half of the roadway has been divided into two (2) or more lanes, or on
one-way streets, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being
driven in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane
movement. (2000 Code § 15-513)
   B.   Overtaking And Passing School Bus:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge schoolchildren, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, shall stop his vehicle before it reaches the school
bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed
past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for
the safety of such schoolchildren and other occupants.
      2.   The driver of any vehicle when passing the school bus shall use due
caution for the safety of schoolchildren and other occupants of the school bus.
      3.   Occupants of the school bus shall have the right of way when
crossing the roadway immediately upon leaving the school bus. (2000 Code § 15-
514)
   C.   School Bus Requirements; Lights, Signs, Painting:
      1.   The provisions of subsection B of this section shall be applicable
only if the school bus is painted yellow and bears upon the front and rear
thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words "SCHOOL BUS" in letters not
less than eight inches (8") in height which can be removed or covered when the
vehicle is not in use as a school bus.
      2.   The school bus shall be equipped with four (4) red alternately
flashing warning signal lights, two (2) of which shall be located high on the
front and two (2) high on the rear of the vehicle. The lights shall be a
minimum of four inches (4") in diameter and shall be widely separated. (2000
Code § 15-515)
15-5-10: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
   No person shall drive any vehicle within or upon any sidewalk area except at
a permanent or temporary driveway. (2000 Code § 15-516)
15-5-11: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING VEHICLE:
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with any other traffic.
No vehicle shall be backed into an intersection. (2000 Code § 15-517)
15-5-12: MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS 1 :
   A.   Limitation On Use:
      1.   No driver of a two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle or
bicycle shall carry any other person upon or within such vehicle on any street
or highway, except as provided in this section:
         a.   If any two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle with a
wheel diameter of twelve inches (12") or greater or any bicycle shall have
either a double seating device with double foot rests or a side car attachment
providing a separate seat space within such sidecar attachment for each person
riding therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of
the side car, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the
age of sixteen (16) or older to carry a passenger; and
         b.   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his employee is
permissible.
      2.   No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of
the city.
      3.   No rider of a motorcycle, bicycle, or motor scooter shall hold onto
any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
      4.   A person operating a motor scooter, motorcycle, motor driven cycle,
or motor bicycle shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto.
      5.   No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter shall pass other vehicles
in between lanes of traffic travelling in the same direction. Authorized
emergency vehicles are excepted from the provisions of this subsection. (2000
Code § 15-518)
   B.   Required Motorcycle Equipment, Headgear:
      1.   In addition to all other requirements, motorcycles and motor
scooters shall be equipped with the following:
         a.   Handlebars which do not exceed twelve inches (12") in height,
measured from the crown or point of attachment.
         b.   Two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle.
         c.   Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle, to stop
and hold the vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes.
One means for applying the brakes shall be to effectively apply the brakes to
the front wheel, and one means shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the
rear wheels. All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear
of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color
between red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred
feet (100') to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be activated upon
application of the service brake.
         d.   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least
the maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle shall be provided.
         e.   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type
provided by the manufacturer.
         f.   One lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at
least three hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the vehicle is
proceeding, and one taillamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall
emit a red light plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the
rear. The lights required by this subsection shall be burning whenever the
vehicle is in motion during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset
and one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the streets are not clearly discernible at a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') ahead. (2000 Code § 15-519)
         g.   A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of the windshield, the operator
shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect him from
foreign objects. (2000 Code § 15-519; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-
2008)
      2.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall operate or ride
upon any vehicle covered under this section unless the person is equipped with
and wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design manufactured for
use by the operators of such vehicles. All crash helmets shall consist of
lining, padding and chinstraps and be of the type as not to distort the view of
the driver. While operating or riding on a vehicle covered hereunder, the
chinstraps shall be fastened.
      3.   No person may operate a motorcycle or motor scooter with the exhaust
system modified so that motor noise is increased greater than that of the
original muffler equipment provided by the manufacturer of the vehicle.
      4.   The rules and regulations in state law applicable to the licensing
operation and ownership of motorcycles, motor scooters and motorized bicycles
in the state and as set out by the rules and regulations of the state
department of public safety in the state driver's manual are fully adopted by
reference, and are applicable and enforceable in the city. (2000 Code § 15-519)
   C.   Special Speed Limitation On Motorcycles And Motor Scooters: No person
shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed greater than the
speed limit legally posted. (2000 Code § 15-520)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 11 of this title for bicycle regulations.
15-5-13: CLINGING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon a roadway.
(2000 Code § 15-521)
15-5-14: ENTERING AND LEAVING CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAYS:
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority. (2000 Code § 15-
522)
15-5-15: RECKLESS DRIVING:
   Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section 1-1-8 of
this code. (2000 Code § 15-523; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
15-5-16: CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING, STOPPING OR PARKING:
   It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be
parked, or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in such a
manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property, or as to interfere with
the lawful movement of traffic or use of the streets. (2000 Code § 15-524)
15-5-17: VEHICLE OPERATION IN CAREFUL AND PRUDENT MANNER:
   Any person driving a vehicle on a public road or way shall drive the same in
a careful and prudent manner and at a careful and prudent speed not greater
than nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface, and width of the public way and any other conditions then existing.
(2000 Code § 15-525)
15-5-18: DRIVING WHILE UNDER INFLUENCE OF DRUGS OR ALCOHOL:
   A.   Drugs:
      1.   No person shall drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of
any motor vehicle upon any highway who is under the influence of any substance
included in the uniform controlled dangerous substance act 1 . The fact that
any person charged with a violation of this provision is or has been lawfully
entitled to use such controlled substance shall not constitute a defense.
      2.   Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed thirty
(30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Alcohol:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of liquor
to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of any motor vehicle in the
city.
      2.   Any person who operates a motor vehicle while ability to operate
such motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption of alcohol shall be punished
by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment
not to exceed thirty (30) days or by both fine and imprisonment.
      3.   Upon the trial of any criminal action or proceeding arising out of
acts alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or
intoxicating liquor, or operating a motor vehicle while his ability is impaired
by the consumption of alcohol, evidence of the amount of alcohol in the
person's blood as shown by a chemical analysis of his blood or breath is
admissible. (Ord. 935, 12-14-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 2-101 et seq.
15-5-19: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit such vehicle
to stand unattended without first stopping the engine and effectively setting
the brake thereon, and when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels
to the curb or side of the street. (2000 Code § 15-528)
15-5-20: COASTING UNLAWFUL:
   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a downgrade shall not
coast with the gears of the vehicle in neutral nor with the clutch disengaged.
(2000 Code § 15-529)
15-5-21: ATTENTION TO DRIVING REQUIRED:
   The operator of every vehicle while driving shall devote his full time and
attention to such driving. (2000 Code § 15-530)
15-5-22: SPEED CONTEST PROHIBITED:
   A.   Engaging In Speed Contest: No person shall engage in, aid or abet any
motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed on any street or highway.
   B.   Obstructing Street: No person shall, for the purpose of facilitating or
aiding or as an incident to any motor vehicle speed contest upon any street or
highway, in any manner obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction upon any
street or highway.
   C.   Unlawful Assemblage To Watch Speed Contest: When three (3) or more
persons assemble to witness or participate in an unlawful speed contest, such
assembly is unlawful assembly and any person who participates in such "unlawful
assembly" is guilty of an offense. (2000 Code § 15-531)
15-5-23: DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE:
   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone or
island. (2000 Code § 15-532)
15-5-24: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (2000 Code § 15-
533)
15-5-25: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (2000 Code § 15-534)
15-5-26: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (2000 Code § 15-535)
15-5-27: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE:
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (2000 Code § 15-536)
15-5-28: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
   No person shall ride on any such vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply
to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons
riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (2000 Code § 15-
537)
15-5-29: RAILROAD TRAINS AND TRACKS, RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Obedience To Signal Indicating Approach Of Train:
      1.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this subsection, the driver
of such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen
feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until
he can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         a.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         b.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         c.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from
such distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to
such crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
         d.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
      2.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed. (2000 Code § 15-556)
   B.   Stopping At Railroad Grade Crossings:
      1.   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of
any school bus carrying any schoolchild, or of any vehicle carrying explosive
substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing
at grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within
fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of
such railroad, and while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions
along such track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, except as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed
until he can do so safely. After stopping as required herein and upon
proceeding when it is safe to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall cross
only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing
gears while traversing such crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears
while crossing the track or tracks.
      2.   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed. (2000 Code § 15-557)
15-5-30: PRIVATE SERVICE DRIVES:
   No vehicle or animal shall be driven through any private service driveway or
private service area except for the purpose of obtaining service or
merchandise. (2000 Code § 15-539)
15-5-31: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Routes Defined: The city council, by motion or resolution, may
prescribe routes through the city for the use of trucks in general, trucks of
particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are not ordinary private passenger
vehicles, passing through the city.
      1.   No person shall drive a truck on any street, road or highway that is
not designated as a part of a truck route.
      2.   Appropriate and adequate signs shall be placed along such routes so
that drivers of such vehicles may follow the routes. When such signs are so
erected and in place, the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route
has been prescribed, as provided above, while passing through the city, shall
keep on such route and shall not deviate therefrom except in case of emergency.
      3.   Exceptions to prohibition:
         a.   When the destination of the truck requires traveling on streets
not part of the truck route for a delivery to or from a customer or to provide
a service at a residence or business. In such an event the route must be
limited to the minimum necessary to accomplish the delivery or service call;
         b.   Public mass transit vehicles, including school buses;
         c.   Fire trucks, military or other emergency vehicles;
         d.   Road construction and maintenance equipment, while vehicle is
being used for this purpose;
         e.   Farm tractors, implements, combines, flatbeds, farm trucks no
greater than thirty feet (30') in length;
         f.   Sport utility vehicles or light or full size pickups.
      4.   A violation of these provisions shall be a misdemeanor and
punishable in accordance with Section
1-1-8 of the Code of Ordinances.
      5.   In the event that damage occurs to real or personal property as a
result of a violation of this provision, the Court may assess the damage as
restitution against the responsible party in favor of the City of Seminole, its
trust authorities or other appropriate party.
   B.   Map Of Routes Required: The city clerk shall keep and maintain accurate
maps setting out the truck routes as designated by the city council. (Ord.
1236, 1-14-2020)
15-5-32: LOADS ON VEHICLES:
   A.   Loads Dropping From Vehicles: No vehicle shall be driven or moved on
any highway unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
its load from dropping, shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping
therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing
traction, or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in
cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   B.   Covering Of Load: No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle
with any load unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so
as to prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any
manner a hazard to other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand,
cinders, or other loose material susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason
of wind shall have the load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or
escaping of the load from the vehicle.
   C.   Hauling Livestock, Agricultural Products: This section shall apply to
trucks loaded with livestock, poultry or agricultural products only except
baled agricultural products; provided, that any such truck shall be so
constructed or loaded as to prevent such livestock or poultry from escaping
therefrom. (2000 Code § 15-541)
15-5-33: VEHICLE APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION:
   A.   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an uncontrolled intersection
from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the
vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right
except as otherwise stated in this title; however, the driver of a vehicle on a
street which is not a state or federal highway approaching an intersection with
a state or federal highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle
which has entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   B.   The right of way rule declared in subsection A of this section is
modified at through highways as otherwise stated in this title. (2000 Code §
15-542)
15-5-34: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION:
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard. After so yielding and having given signal when and as
required by this title, the driver may make the left turn and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (2000 Code §
15-543)
15-5-35: VEHICLE APPROACHING YIELD RIGHT OF WAY SIGN:
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a "yield right of way" sign shall slow
to a reasonable speed for existing conditions of traffic and visibility,
yielding the right of way to all vehicles on the intersecting street or highway
which have entered the intersection or which are so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard. (2000 Code § 15-544)
15-5-36: VEHICLE ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAY:
   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by this title at the
entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right of way to other
vehicles which have entered the intersection from the through highway, or which
are approaching so closely on the through highway as to constitute an immediate
hazard. (2000 Code § 15-545)
15-5-37: VEHICLE FACING STOP, SLOW OR CAUTION SIGNAL:
   If two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or
signals at an intersection and are approaching as to enter the intersection at
the same time, the following rules shall apply: If each vehicle is required to
stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of way. If each
vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the
right of way. If each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming
from the right shall have the right of way. If one vehicle is required to slow
and the other to take caution, the one required to take caution shall have the
right of way. In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the
intersection shall have the right of way over one which has not entered the
intersection. (2000 Code § 15-546)
15-5-38: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   Designation By Council: The city council may designate any street or
part of a street a through street.
   B.   Placement Of Signs:
      1.   Whenever the city council designates and describes a through street,
a stop sign, or yield sign if deemed more appropriate, shall be placed and
maintained on every street intersecting a through street, or intersecting that
portion thereof, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled at all times
by traffic control signals.
      2.   At the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the
intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated,
stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may
be determined by the city manager if deemed desirable. (2000 Code § 15-547)
15-5-39: INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED:
   The city manager, subject to any directions given by the council by motion
or resolution, is hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections
upon other than through streets where particular hazards exist and to determine
whether:
   A.   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event he shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
   B.   Vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a different street
as provided in section 15-5-38 of this chapter, in which event he shall cause
to be erected a yield sign at every place where yield is required. (2000 Code §
15-548)
15-5-40: STOP OR YIELD SIGN CONSTRUCTION AND PLACEMENT:
   Every stop or yield sign erected pursuant to this title shall bear the word
"Stop" or "Yield" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in height for a
stop sign and not less than seven inches (7") in height for a yield sign. Every
stop or yield sign shall at night be rendered luminous by steady or flashing
internal illumination, by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign,
or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop or
yield sign shall be located as close as practicable to the nearest line of the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or if there is no crosswalk,
then the sign shall be located at the nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
(2000 Code § 15-549)
15-5-41: VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Stop: Except when directed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection, indicated by
a stop sign, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection. In the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line before entering the intersection. If there is no
marked stop line, then the driver shall stop at the point nearest the
intersecting road where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on an
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. A driver, after having
stopped, shall yield the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or road, or which is approaching so close as
to constitute immediate hazard; but the driver having so yielded may then
proceed and the driver of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall
yield the right of way to the vehicle so proceeding. (2000 Code § 15-550)
   B.   Yield: The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in
observance to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing
condition or shall stop if necessary and shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving and to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another road so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may then proceed
and drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to
the vehicle so proceeding. A driver who enters a yield intersection without
stopping and has or causes a collision with a pedestrian at a crosswalk or a
vehicle in the intersection shall prima facie be considered not to have yielded
as required herein. The provisions of this subsection shall not release the
drivers of other vehicles approaching the intersection at such a distance as
not to constitute immediate hazard from the duty to drive with due care to
avoid a collision. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if
required for safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection before entering the intersection; if there is no
crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or if there is
no stop line, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. (2000
Code § 15-551)
15-5-42: VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY:
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter, leave or cross a highway from or
into a private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway. (2000 Code § 15-552)
15-5-43: VEHICLE ENTERING TRAFFIC FROM PARKING:
   Any vehicle attempting to reenter traffic while parked at the curb shall
yield the right of way to oncoming traffic in the street approaching from the
rear. The parked vehicle shall proceed into the line of traffic only after the
driver has given the appropriate signal which indicates his intention of
turning from the curb and into the line of traffic. The vehicle shall in no
event enter the line of traffic until the driver has ascertained that no hazard
exists. (2000 Code § 15-553)
15-5-44: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right of way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway. (2000 Code § 15-554)
15-5-45: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (2000 Code § 15-555)
15-5-46: LEFT HAND TURNS INTO ANGLE PARKING PROHIBITED:
   Left hand turns into any designated angle parking areas are hereby
prohibited. (2000 Code § 15-558)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
15-6-1: Authority To Install Devices
15-6-2: Uniform Requirements
15-6-3: Obedience To Official Traffic Control Devices
15-6-4: When Official Devices Required For Enforcement
15-6-5: Traffic Control Signal Legend
15-6-6: Pedestrians; Signal Indicators; Regulations
15-6-7: Flashing Signals
15-6-8: Pedestrian Activated School Crossing Signals
15-6-9: Unauthorized Devices Prohibited
15-6-10: Defacement Of Devices
15-6-11: Play Streets, Authority To Establish
15-6-12: Designation Of Crosswalks And Safety Zones
15-6-13: Traffic Lanes
15-6-1: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL DEVICES:
   The street department shall have placed and maintained traffic control
signs, signals, and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances
of the city to make effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may have
placed and maintained such additional traffic control signs, signals, and
devices as the council may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic
ordinances of the city or under state law or to guide or warn traffic. Requests
for location of traffic control signs, signals or devices shall be made to the
city council. (2000 Code § 15-601)
15-6-2: UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the
"Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices" approved by the state department of
public safety.
   B.   All signs, signals, and devices required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and relative location
throughout the city. All traffic control devices erected and not inconsistent
with the provisions of state law or this title shall be official traffic
control devices. (2000 Code § 15-602)
15-6-3: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the
provisions of this title, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this title. (2000 Code § 15-603)
15-6-4: WHEN OFFICIAL DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT:
   No provision of this title for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. If a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (2000 Code § 15-604)
15-6-5: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
   The display of signal lights, arrows and words shall be deemed to have the
following meanings and requires the appropriate response on the part of
vehicular traffic and pedestrians:
   A.   Green Alone, "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited, may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless an official sign at such
place prohibits such turn, but any vehicle and any pedestrian lawfully within
the intersection or adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal displays green
shall have the right of way over such vehicular traffic; and
      2.   Pedestrian traffic facing a green signal may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless a "walk" signal
indicator is operating.
   B.   Steady Yellow Or Amber Alone, "Caution":
      1.   The showing of such signal color following green shall constitute a
warning that the "red" or "stop" signal will be exhibited immediately
thereafter; and
      2.   Vehicles facing the signal shall stop before entering the near side
crosswalk or at the limit line, if it is marked, unless the vehicle is so near
the limit line when the "caution" signal first flashes that a stop cannot be
made in safety, in which event vehicles may proceed cautiously through the
intersection and clear the same before the "red" signal flashes.
   C.   Red Alone, "Stop":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk and shall remain standing until green or "go" is shown alone. Except
where official signs are erected prohibiting such turns, vehicles in the right
traffic lane, after making a full stop as required, may enter the intersection
cautiously and make a right turn, but such vehicles shall yield the right of
way to any pedestrians or other traffic in the intersection and the turn shall
be made so as not to interfere in any way with traffic proceeding on a green
signal indication on the cross street; and
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal shall not enter or cross the roadway
when such movement interferes with traffic proceeding on a green signal
indication on the cross street, or when the movement cannot be made in safety.
No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the green or
"go" is shown alone unless authorized to do so, by a pedestrian "walk" signal.
   D.   Steady Red With Green Arrow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal when in the proper traffic lane
may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by
the arrow, but shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If the movement
indicated by the green arrow is a left turn, the left turn shall be made only
on the red with green arrow signal; and
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian "walk"
signal.
   E.   Green Arrows Alone: Whenever vehicular traffic movements are controlled
by green arrows alone and not displayed with any other signal indication,
vehicles facing such signals may make the movements indicated by the green
arrows and the movements shall be made only when the green arrows are
displayed.
   F.   Signals At Other Than Intersections: In the event an official traffic
control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection,
the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to those
provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required
shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop
shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall
be made at the signal. (2000 Code § 15-605)
15-6-6: PEDESTRIANS; SIGNAL INDICATORS; REGULATIONS:
   Special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "walk", "wait" or
"don't walk" shall regulate pedestrian movement as follows:
   A.   Walk: Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the drivers
of all vehicles; and
   B.   Wait Or Don't Walk: No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the "walk" signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone
while the "wait" signal is showing. (2000 Code § 15-606)
15-6-7: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Flashing Red Or Yellow: Whenever a flashing red or yellow signal is
illuminated, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
      1.   Flashing Red: When a red light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject
to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; and
      2.   Flashing Yellow: When a yellow light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection,
or pass such signal only with caution.
   B.   Railroad Crossings, Exception: This section shall not apply at railroad
grade crossings. (2000 Code § 15-607)
15-6-8: PEDESTRIAN ACTIVATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS:
   Whenever a pedestrian activated school crossing signal is provided, it
requires obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Flashing Yellow:
      1.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or pass
such signal only with caution; and
      2.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
activate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal.
   B.   Steady Yellow Alone:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or "stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the signal when
the red or "stop" signal is exhibited; and
      2.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown.
   C.   Steady Red:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, and shall remain standing until
flashing yellow is shown alone.
      2.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal,
and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   D.   Steady Red And Steady Yellow Combined:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone; and
      2.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the right
of way by the drivers of all vehicles. (2000 Code § 15-608)
15-6-9: UNAUTHORIZED DEVICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   B.   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit
upon any highway any traffic sign, signal, or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   C.   This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private property
adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information which are
of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device may be removed without
notice. (2000 Code § 15-609)
15-6-10: DEFACEMENT OF DEVICES:
   A.   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
destroy, deface, molest, interfere, tamper, injure, knock down, remove or have
in his possession any traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal or
an inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
   B.   This section shall not apply to any of the following persons when
acting within the scope and duty of their employment:
      1.   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any governmental agency; or
      2.   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any contractor, public utility or railroad company. (2000 Code § 15-
610)
15-6-11: PLAY STREETS, AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH:
   A.   Authority To Designate Play Streets: The city manager, subject to any
directions given by the council, shall have authority to declare any street or
part thereof a play street and to have placed appropriate signs or devices in
the roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
   B.   Driving On Play Streets: Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a
vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles
having business or whose residences are within such closed area; and then any
such driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof. Playing in streets is prohibited except as otherwise provided;
it is unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and fro upon
any public thoroughfare in the city. (2000 Code § 15-611)
15-6-12: DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
   The city may:
   A.   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the
surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in its opinion there
is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such other
places as it may deem necessary; and
   B.   Establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (2000
Code § 15-612)
15-6-13: TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   The city manager, subject to any directions given by the council, may
be authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street where
a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   B.   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement, or as otherwise authorized by
ordinance. (2000 Code § 15-613)
CHAPTER 7
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING GENERALLY 1
SECTION:
15-7-1: Illegal Parking Declared Public Nuisance
15-7-2: Application Of Regulations
15-7-3: Parking Time Limits
15-7-4: Brakes Set; Turning Off Motor
15-7-5: Angle Parking
15-7-6: Parking Within Marked Spaces
15-7-7: Parallel Parking; Right Of Way
15-7-8: Permit For Loading Or Unloading At Angle To Curb
15-7-9: Hazardous Or Congested Places
15-7-10: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
15-7-11: Blocking Intersection Or Crosswalk
15-7-12: Parking On One-Way Roadway
15-7-13: Handicapped Parking, Insignia Required
15-7-14: Adjacent To Schools
15-7-15: Parking In Alleys, Blocking Driveways
15-7-16: Entry On Private Property; Trespass
15-7-17: Truck Parking
15-7-18: Double Parking
15-7-19: Public Vehicle Regulations
15-7-20: Center Parking On Broadway Prohibited
15-7-21: Parking Restrictions Downtown; Time Limits
15-7-22: Private Parking Lots
15-7-23: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
15-7-24: Negligent Parking
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 6-1-11C of this code for parking violation citation
  issuance.
15-7-1: ILLEGAL PARKING DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this chapter
governing, limiting or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any
street or public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance, and each separate traffic citation issued as authorized herein for
such violation shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or
operator of such vehicle. (2000 Code § 15-701)
15-7-2: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable when it is necessary
for a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
(2000 Code § 15-702)
15-7-3: PARKING TIME LIMITS:
   A.   Authority To Establish: The city manager, subject to any directions
given by the council by motion or resolution, may establish parking time limits
or prohibit parking on designated streets or parts of streets and have
appropriate signs placed on the streets. When the signs are in place, it is
unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in violation of the sign. No such
time limits shall be effective unless a sign is erected and in place at the
time of the alleged violation. (2000 Code § 15-703)
   B.   Time Limits On Streets And In Parking Lots: No person shall park a
vehicle on any street for a period of time longer than twenty four (24) hours.
No person shall park a vehicle on any public parking lot owned or controlled by
the city for a period of time longer than seventy two (72) hours; however, the
city manager may, under such rules, regulations or directions as the city
council may establish, grant special permission for a person to park a vehicle
on a public parking lot owned or controlled by the city for a period of time in
excess of seventy two (72) hours. This subsection shall not affect parking
limits established for shorter periods. (2000 Code § 15-704)
15-7-4: BRAKES SET; TURNING OFF MOTOR:
   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked. (2000 Code
§ 15-705)
15-7-5: ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   Determination; Signs Or Markings: The city manager, subject to any
directions given by the city council by motion or resolution, shall determine
upon what streets and parts of streets angle parking shall be permitted, and
shall have such streets marked or signed. (2000 Code § 15-706)
   B.   Obedience To Signs Or Markings: On those streets which have been so
signed or marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle
other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such
signs or markings. (2000 Code § 15-707)
15-7-6: PARKING WITHIN MARKED SPACES:
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park such vehicle within a parking
space as thus marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space. (2000
Code § 15-708)
15-7-7: PARALLEL PARKING; RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Method Of Parking: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall
be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to
and within eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb. Any vehicle stopped or
parked upon the left hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent
curbs shall be parked or stopped with the left hand wheels parallel to and
within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb. (2000 Code § 15-727)
   B.   Right Of Way To Parking Space:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking
space where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by
another vehicle shall stop his vehicle to the rear of the parking space until
the vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic. He then shall be
deemed to have the right of way to such parking space over any other vehicle
attempting to park therein.
      2.   The first of two (2) or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of
an unoccupied parallel parking space where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy shall be deemed to have the right of way to such parking space. (2000
Code § 15-729)
15-7-8: PERMIT FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE TO CURB:
   A.   Permit Issuance: The city manager is authorized to issue special
permits to permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of
loading or unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and
conditions of such permit. Such permit may be issued either to the owner or
lessee of real property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such
person the privilege as therein stated and authorized herein. The city manager
may revoke such permit at any time.
   B.   Compliance With Permit Conditions: It is unlawful for any permittee or
other person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such
permit. (2000 Code § 15-709)
15-7-9: HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES:
   A.   Authority To Determine Hazardous Parking Areas: The city manager is
hereby authorized to determine and regulate by proper signs the stopping,
standing, or parking of vehicles when such stopping, standing or parking would
create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to
traffic.
   B.   Compliance With Signs: When official signs are erected at hazardous or
congested places, as authorized in subsection A of this section, no person
shall violate such signs. (2000 Code § 15-710)
15-7-10: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   No Parking Places Enumerated: No person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle, except in emergencies or when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area, or between the sidewalk and the
street.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within an intersection.
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant except in a parking
space officially marked.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length has been indicated by signs or markings.
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station, and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of the entrance when properly signposted.
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   Noncompliance Prohibited: No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully
under his control into any prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a
curb. (2000 Code § 15-711)
15-7-11: BLOCKING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK:
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed. (2000 Code § 15-712)
15-7-12: PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAY:
   A.   Prohibition:
      1.   If a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic
is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
      2.   The city council may determine when standing or parking may be
permitted upon the left hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect
signs giving notice thereof. (2000 Code § 15-713)
   B.   Left Side Of One-Way Street: The city manager may have signs erected
upon the left hand side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or
parking of vehicles. When the signs are in place, no person shall stand or park
a vehicle in violation of any such signs. (2000 Code § 15-714)
15-7-13: HANDICAPPED PARKING, INSIGNIA REQUIRED:
   A.   Reserved Parking; Insignia Required: It is unlawful for any person to
place or park a motor vehicle in any parking space on property accessible to
the public and where the public is invited or public property that is
designated and posted as a reserved area for parking of motor vehicles of a
physically disabled person unless such person has a physical disability
insignia as provided under the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 15-
112, and such insignias are displayed as provided in said statute or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this section shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000
Code § 15-730)
15-7-14: ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
   A.   The city manager may have signs erected indicating no parking upon
either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such
parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation.
   B.   No person shall park a vehicle in violation of any such signs. (2000
Code § 15-715)
15-7-15: PARKING IN ALLEYS, BLOCKING DRIVEWAYS:
   No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position
as to block a driveway entrance to any abutting property. (2000 Code § 15-717)
15-7-16: ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRESPASS:
   A.   Prohibited Act: No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon
real property owned or legally occupied by another without the owner's or
occupant's consent except where such private property is provided as public
parking and the general use of the property is not restricted by signs or
proper markings.
   B.   Noncompliance; Burden Of Proof: Where entry is made upon real property
owned or legally occupied by another without the owner's or occupant's consent,
except on unrestricted public parking, and is complained of by the owner or
legal occupant of the premises, the burden is put upon the person making the
entry to show that permission for such entry was given. (2000 Code § 15-718)
15-7-17: TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   General Prohibitions:
      1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
   COMMERCIAL: Those areas of the city zoned as commercial.
   PARKING: Parked, left standing, or abandoned.
   RESIDENTIAL: Those areas of the city zoned as residential.
   STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of every public way,
publicly maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
the purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which is a pickup truck, truck, or tractor unit.
      2.   Weight Limit:
         a.   All vehicles which exceed a weight limit classification of one
ton are hereby prohibited from using streets or alleyways of the residential
areas of the city for parking.
         b.   All vehicles which exceed a weight limit classification of one
and one-half (11/2) tons are hereby prohibited from using the streets and
alleys of commercial areas of the city for parking purposes.
      3.   Residential Areas: Parking is hereby prohibited in all residential
areas of the city for all vehicles used for the transportation of gasoline,
butane, propane, or any derivatives of butane, or any other flammable or
explosive substance or material. (2000 Code § 15-719)
      4.   Parking Allowed/Prohibited During Loading, Unloading: A vehicle may
be parked in commercial and residential areas during active loading or
unloading, notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A2 and A3 of this
section. This allowance does not include parking upon state highway rights of
way or shoulders for the purpose of loading or unloading of vehicles. (Ord.
1100, 6-9-2009, eff. 6-9-2009)
   B.   Transportation Of Hazardous Materials: It is unlawful to park, store,
or otherwise let stand, a truck or other vehicle which is used for the purpose
of transporting or delivering explosives, gases, flammable and combustible
liquids, flammable solids, oxidizers, organic peroxides, poisonous and
etiologic (infectious) materials, radioactive materials, corrosives, and
miscellaneous hazardous materials, as defined by the fire prevention code or
the international fire code and trucks or other vehicles which are used for the
transportation and delivery of liquefied petroleum gases in any area within the
city, except the areas which are zoned I-2 and I-3. However, the trucks and
vehicles restricted in this subsection may be temporarily parked at locations
otherwise zoned for the purpose of loading and unloading hazardous materials
and liquefied petroleum gases for a period not to exceed one and one-half (11/
2) hours during any twenty four (24) hour period. (2000 Code § 15-725; amd.
Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
15-7-18: DOUBLE PARKING:
   No vehicle shall be double parked on any street within the city limits,
except under the following circumstances:
   A.   In compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic
control device, or except when necessary to avoid conflict with another
vehicle; or
   B.   On Main Street, between the railroad station and Seminole Avenue, and
then only when the parked vehicle is occupied by a qualified, licensed driver
who is capable of moving the vehicle in order that parked vehicles may move
from their parked positions. Failure to move the double parked vehicle so that
another vehicle may move constitutes an offense in violation of this chapter.
(2000 Code § 15-720)
15-7-19: PUBLIC VEHICLE REGULATIONS:
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation engaged in the public
service business of hauling merchandise or passengers for hire within the city,
by means of taxicabs, trucks and other vehicles, to park the same at any point
on Main Street, Broadway, between Milt Phillips Street and Fourth Street and
Oak Avenue, from Main Street to Second Street, except when actually engaged in
receiving merchandise, goods or passengers, and in unloading, discharging and
depositing the same at their destination for points on Main Street, Broadway
and Oak Avenue. (2000 Code § 15-721; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
15-7-20: CENTER PARKING ON BROADWAY PROHIBITED:
   Center parking on Broadway Street in the city is prohibited. (2000 Code §
15-722)
15-7-21: PARKING RESTRICTIONS DOWNTOWN; TIME LIMITS:
   A.   Hours And Area Of Restriction: Parking of motor vehicles shall be
limited to two (2) hours between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) P.M., excepting Sundays and holidays, on the following
streets within the city: Broadway and Oak Streets from Milt Phillips Street to
Main Street, Main Street from Osage Street to Seminole Street and Evans Street
from Second Street to Main Street. The fine shall be as set by the council.
(2000 Code § 15-723; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   B.   Violations; Citation Issuance And Cancellation: A citation issued for
parking in excess of two (2) hours may be canceled by an owner or manager of
any business located in the described area in subsection A of this section.
However, the owner or manager may only cancel the citations of those persons
who were customers in their establishments at the time that the citation was
issued. The cancellation, made by the signature of the owner or the manager,
shall indicate the date and time of cancellation and the name of the customer.
In order to be effective, the cancellation shall be made and the citation
placed in a receptacle provided for that purpose or taken to the municipal
court clerk's office within forty eight (48) hours of its issuance. (2000 Code
§ 15-723)
15-7-22: PRIVATE PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Prohibited Parking: It is unlawful for any vehicle to be parked in any
restricted private parking lot except in conformity with the purposes and uses
of such parking lot, which shall be posted by signs plainly visible to persons
entering the lot.
   B.   Impoundment For Illegal Parking: Vehicles parking in restricted private
parking lots in violation of the purposes and uses of the lots may be impounded
and removed by the police department at the request of the parking lot owner,
and the owner of the vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and
the amount of any fine. (2000 Code § 15-724)
15-7-23: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway or state highway right of
way for the purposes of: (2000 Code § 15-726; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff.
4-10-2008)
   A.   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   B.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   C.   Washing, cleaning, or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (2000 Code § 15-726)
   D.   Loading or unloading of vehicles. (Ord. 1100, 6-9-2009, eff. 6-9-2009)
15-7-24: NEGLIGENT PARKING:
   No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop or leave unattended any
vehicle as follows:
   A.   In a careless or negligent manner;
   B.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person, or property; or
   C.   In such manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic or
use of the streets. (2000 Code § 15-728)
CHAPTER 8
FREIGHT AND PASSENGER LOADING ZONES
SECTION:
15-8-1: Definitions
15-8-2: Curb Loading Zones
15-8-3: Public Carrier Stops And Stands
15-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
   As used in this chapter:
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name
of the owner or his business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly
used during normal business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise
or freight and which bears a regular state commercial license tag.
   FREIGHT LOADING ZONES: All curb loading zones authorized and regularly used
exclusively for the loading and unloading of merchandise for storage, trade,
shipment or resale.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONES: All loading zones authorized and used regularly and
exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers except bus stops,
taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier vehicles. (2000
Code § 15-801; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
15-8-2: CURB LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Designation; Prohibition:
      1.   The city manager, subject to any directions given by the council by
motion or resolution, may determine the location of passenger and freight curb
loading zones and shall have placed and maintained appropriate signs indicating
the zones and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable.
      2.   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of signs
erected in accordance with this section.
      3.   If any loading zone is established on request of any person, the
signs shall not be placed until the applicant pays to the city an amount of
money estimated by the city council to be adequate to reimburse the city for
all costs of establishing and signing the same. (2000 Code § 15-802)
   B.   Use Only For Designated Purpose: No curb loading zone authorized and
established as a passenger loading zone shall be used as a freight loading
zone, and no freight loading zone shall be used as a passenger loading zone,
except as may be specifically provided by law. (2000 Code § 15-803)
   C.   Parking In Passenger Curb Loading Zone: No person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle in a passenger curb loading zone for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, during
the hours when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zones are
effective, and then only for a period not to exceed thirty (30) minutes. (2000
Code § 15-804)
   D.   Parking In Freight Curb Loading Zone:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a commercial curb
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pick up and loading of materials during hours when
the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the
stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes.
Vehicles using any commercial loading zone shall be subject to the licensing
requirements and regulations provided in this chapter.
      2.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to enter the zone. (2000
Code § 15-805)
15-8-3: PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS 1 :
   A.   Designation: The city may establish loading zones for common carriers,
including, but not limited to, bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands
for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles, on such public streets in
such places and in such number as it shall determine to be of the greatest
benefit and convenience to the public. Every such loading zone shall be
designated by appropriate signs. (2000 Code § 15-806)
   B.   Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands Restricted: No person shall stop, stand,
or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a
taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been officially designated and
the appropriate signs are in place. The driver of a passenger vehicle may
temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone. (2000 Code § 15-
807)
   C.   Parking Of Buses And Taxicabs:
      1.   Buses:
         a.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided
herein.
         b.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street
at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their
baggage, except in a bus stop, stand or loading zone designated as provided
herein, except in case of an emergency.
         c.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or
passenger loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when
stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with
the right front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches (18")
from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to
unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
      2.   Taxicabs: The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such
vehicle upon any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated as provided herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers. (2000 Code § 15-808)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 16-2-9 of this code.
CHAPTER 9
TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
15-9-1: Turning Markers Or Indicators
15-9-2: Designation Of Restricted Turns
15-9-3: Obedience To No Turn Signs
15-9-4: U-Turns
15-9-5: Position And Method Of Turning
15-9-6: Turning Movements And Required Signals
15-9-7: Means Of Giving Turn Signals
15-9-8: Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals
15-9-9: Turns Into Or From Alleys
15-9-10: Obstructed View
15-9-1: TURNING MARKERS OR INDICATORS:
   A.   Placement By City: The city is authorized to place markers, buttons or
signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled
by vehicles turning at such intersections. The course to be traveled, as so
indicated, may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   B.   Compliance Required: When authorized markers, buttons, or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indications. (2000 Code § 15-901)
15-9-2: DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED TURNS:
   The city is authorized to determine those street intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left or U-turns, and shall have
proper signs placed at the intersections. The making of the turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours. Where
turns are restricted during certain hours pursuant to this section, the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when turns are
permitted. (2000 Code § 15-902)
15-9-3: OBEDIENCE TO NO TURN SIGNS:
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-
turn is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall not disobey the directions of
any such sign. (2000 Code § 15-903)
15-9-4: U-TURNS:
   A.   Prohibition Unless Signs Allow: The driver of a vehicle shall not make
any U-turn unless otherwise allowed by street or sign markings.
   B.   Manner Of Making U-Turns: A U-turn may be made only when it can be made
in safety and without interfering with other traffic. No person shall make a U-
turn except in the following manner:
      1.   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the right
curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to give a signal
for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make the turn across
the intersection;
      2.   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the vehicle;
      3.   By yielding the right of way at all times to all vehicles until such
turn is completed; and
      4.   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle. (2000 Code § 15-904)
15-9-5: POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING:
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows:
   A.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and the execution of a
right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge
of the roadway.
   B.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
the approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the street nearest the center thereof by passing to the right of the centerline
where it enters the intersection. After entering the intersection, the left
turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
   C.   Left Turns On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearby as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered. (2000 Code § 15-905)
15-9-6: TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS:
   A.   Safely Turning; Giving Signal: No person shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as
required in section 15-9-5 of this chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a
private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or
move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such movement can be made
with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
   B.   Continuous Signal: A signal of intention to turn right or left, slow or
stop when required, shall be given continuously during not less than the last
one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before turning or stopping.
   C.   Sudden Stop Or Decrease Of Speed: No person shall stop or suddenly
decrease the speed of a vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal in
the manner provided herein to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear
when there is opportunity to give the signal. (2000 Code § 15-906)
15-9-7: MEANS OF GIVING TURN SIGNALS:
   A.   Types Of Signals: Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be
given either by means of hand or arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps, or
mechanical device of a type approved by the Oklahoma department of public
safety, except as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Conditions Requiring Vehicle Signaling Equipment: A vehicle shall be
equipped with, and the required signal given by, signal lamps or devices when:
      1.   The body or cab of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle projects
twenty four inches (24") or more to the left of the center of the steering
wheel;
      2.   Under any condition where a hand and arm signal would not be visible
both to the front and rear of the vehicle; or
      3.   The rear limit of the body of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle
projects fourteen feet (14') or more beyond the center top of the steering
post. (2000 Code § 15-907)
15-9-8: METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   A.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   B.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
   C.   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward with palm to the
rear. (2000 Code § 15-908)
15-9-9: TURNS INTO OR FROM ALLEYS:
   A.   No vehicles shall turn left when proceeding into or proceeding out of
an alley except when necessary to enter a one-way street, and no vehicle shall
cross any street or highway when proceeding into or proceeding out of any alley
except as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Left turns may be made when proceeding out of an alley if a traffic
survey conducted by the traffic engineer shows that such turn may be made
safely and official signs are erected authorizing such turns.
   C.   The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply to bus
terminals used by licensed and authorized bus lines. (2000 Code § 15-909)
15-9-10: OBSTRUCTED VIEW:
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon
any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any vehicle approaching from either
direction within five hundred feet (500'). (2000 Code § 15-910)
CHAPTER 10
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
15-10-1: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic Control Signals
15-10-2: Pedestrians' Right Of Way At Crosswalks
15-10-3: Using Right Half Of Crosswalk
15-10-4: Crossing At Right Angles
15-10-5: Yield By Pedestrians
15-10-6: Pedestrians Walking Along Roadways
15-10-7: Soliciting Rides, Business Or Donations Prohibited
15-10-8: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
15-10-9: Crossing Prohibited
15-10-10: Obedience Of Pedestrians To Railroad Signal
15-10-1: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS:
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as provided for in
this title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights
and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (2000 Code § 15-
1001)
15-10-2: PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT OF WAY AT CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Duties Of Drivers:
      1.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way slowing down or stopping,
if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when:
         a.   The pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling; or
         b.   The pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite edge
of the roadway as to be in danger.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection are not applicable under
conditions where pedestrians are required to yield pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Pedestrian Suddenly Leaving Curb: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a
curb or other place of safety or walk or run into the path of the vehicle which
is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
   C.   Overtaking Stopped Vehicle Prohibited: Whenever any vehicle is stopped
at a marked crosswalk, or any unmarked crosswalk, or at an intersection to
permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, the driver of any other vehicle
approaching from the rear shall not overtake to pass such stopped vehicle.
(2000 Code § 15-1002)
15-10-3: USING RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK:
   Pedestrians, when crossing the street at a crosswalk, shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of the crosswalk. (2000 Code § 15-1003)
15-10-4: CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES:
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk. (2000 Code § 15-1004)
15-10-5: YIELD BY PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   The provisions of this section are not applicable where pedestrian
crossings are prohibited. (2000 Code § 15-1005)
15-10-6: PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall, when practical, walk only on the left side of the roadway, or
its shoulder, facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction,
and shall yield to approaching vehicles. (2000 Code § 15-1006)
15-10-7: SOLICITING RIDES, BUSINESS OR DONATIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for purpose of soliciting a ride,
donations, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall:
      1.   Stand in any street, roadway or park and stop or attempt to stop and
engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting contributions or
the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a
street.
      2.   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any vehicle.
      3.   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir or gift.
      4.   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway,
attempt to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar
purpose. (2000 Code § 15-1007)
15-10-8: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person on the roadway. (2000 Code § 15-1008)
15-10-9: CROSSING PROHIBITED:
   Between adjacent intersections, at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall not cross any divided highway having a median in the center
thereof, except in a crosswalk. (2000 Code § 15-1009)
15-10-10: OBEDIENCE OF PEDESTRIANS TO RAILROAD SIGNAL:
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing gate
or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed. (2000 Code § 15-1010)
CHAPTER 11
BICYCLES 1
SECTION:
15-11-1: Application Of Provisions
15-11-2: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
15-11-3: Riding On Bicycles
15-11-4: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
15-11-5: Speed Of Bicycle
15-11-6: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
15-11-7: Carrying Articles
15-11-8: Parking
15-11-9: Riding On Sidewalks
15-11-10: Lamps And Equipment On Bicycles
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 15-5-12A of this title.
15-11-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Bicycle Regulations: The provisions of this chapter
shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public
way; or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated in this chapter. (2000 Code § 15-1101)
   B.   Application Of Traffic Laws To Bicycles: Every person riding a bicycle
upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this state, and the
traffic provisions of this code applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those provisions of
laws and ordinances which by their nature are inapplicable to such persons.
(2000 Code § 15-1102)
15-11-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the directions
of such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to the pedestrians. (2000 Code § 15-1103)
15-11-3: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Riding On Seat: No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   Carrying Passengers: No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. (2000 Code §
15-1104)
15-11-4: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Right Side Of Roadway: Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right hand side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle proceeding in
the same direction.
   B.   Riding Two Abreast: Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   C.   Bicycle Paths: If usable paths for bicycles are provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use the roadway.
(2000 Code § 15-1105)
15-11-5: SPEED OF BICYCLE:
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (2000 Code § 15-1106)
15-11-6: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley or driveway shall, upon
approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the alley or driveway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area. Upon entering the roadway, the bicycle operator shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadways. (2000 Code § 15-1107)
15-11-7: CARRYING ARTICLES:
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handlebars.
(2000 Code § 15-1108)
15-11-8: PARKING:
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against the building, or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (2000 Code § 15-1109)
15-11-9: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   B.   The city council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to have
erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles
thereon by any person; and when such signs are in place, no person shall
disobey the same.
   C.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (2000 Code § 15-1110)
15-11-10: LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Lamps: Bicycles in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300')
to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   Siren Or Whistle: A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any
person use, any siren or whistle.
   C.   Brakes: Bicycles shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (2000
Code § 15-1111; amd. Ord. 1077, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
CHAPTER 12
LIMITED ACCESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
15-12-1: System Established
15-12-2: Streets Designated By Ordinance
15-12-3: Regulation And Use
15-12-4: Zoning Ordinances Not Affected
15-12-1: SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
A system of limited access facilities, consisting of the streets, avenues,
boulevards, and ways and parts of same, is established and created within the
city limits, as now existing or as the same may be hereafter extended, and in
recognition of the general use of the facilities, and of the wear and
destruction of same by heavy general traffic thereon, including passenger
automobiles, buses, trucks, and other vehicles; and to the extent that the
costs of acquisition of rights of way and property necessary in the
establishment of the limited access facilities exceed the benefits to property
abutting thereon, the limited access facilities are declared to be improvements
of a general nature, and such costs, to the extent that they exceed the
benefits to property abutting thereon, are declared to be costs of a general
nature. (2000 Code § 15-1201)
15-12-2: STREETS DESIGNATED BY ORDINANCE:
   Certain streets and highways of the city are named as being limited access
facilities and as arterial highways, as identified by ordinance of the city.
The streets and highways so designated are streets or highways especially
designed for through traffic, entrance into which at intersections may be
limited, by requiring all entering vehicles to be brought to a complete stop,
and the city council may otherwise protect the right of way of vehicles
thereon. (2000 Code § 15-1202)
15-12-3: REGULATION AND USE:
   The use of limited access facilities within the city shall be regulated and
controlled by the traffic ordinances of the city as now existing or hereafter
enacted or amended. (2000 Code § 15-1203)
15-12-4: ZONING ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED:
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect any zoning ordinance
or part thereof relating to the construction or use of improvements on property
abutting on any limited facility. (2000 Code § 15-1204)
CHAPTER 13
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
15-13-1: Purpose And Effect
15-13-2: Authority To Impound Vehicles
15-13-3: Vehicles Abandoned On Roadways; Impoundment
15-13-4: Vehicles On Bridges; Impoundment
15-13-5: Vehicles Constituting Traffic Hazards; Impoundment
15-13-6: Vehicles Parked In A Prohibited Zone; Impoundment
15-13-7: Vehicles Blocking Fire Exits Or Hydrants; Impoundment
15-13-8: Vehicles Parked In Intersections; Impoundment
15-13-9: Stolen Vehicles Recovered By Police; Impoundment
15-13-10: Arrest And Detention Of Driver
15-13-11: Place Of Impoundment
15-13-12: Impoundment
15-13-13: Seized And Impounded Vehicle Storage
15-13-14: Duration; Release; Impound Fee
15-13-15: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicle; Contest Of Impoundment
15-13-16: Penalty
15-13-1: PURPOSE AND EFFECT:
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisance arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of City streets and thoroughfares
from obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting stolen vehicles. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-
2017)
15-13-2: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized, within the limits
set forth in this chapter, to impound vehicles under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated and as provided elsewhere in this Code. No impoundment
shall be valid unless made under order of an authorized police officer and in
strict adherence with the procedures required in this chapter. (Ord. 1197, 2-
14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-3: VEHICLES ABANDONED ON ROADWAYS; IMPOUNDMENT 1 :
   A.   A motor vehicle abandoned on a highway, shoulder or right-of- way may
be impounded if after a period of forty eight (48) hours there is no evidence
of an apparent owner who intends to remove the vehicle.
   B.   If an officer has reasonable cause to believe a vehicle has been
abandoned in a location which would be hazardous to the free flow of traffic or
be highly susceptible to damage from vandalism or other harm, he shall have the
authority to remove or direct the removal of the vehicle immediately. At the
time of ordering the removal of an abandoned vehicle, the authorizing officer
shall also determine the sale value of the vehicle and certify that amount of
the removal order. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §§ 901, 902.
15-13-4: VEHICLES ON BRIDGES; IMPOUNDMENT:
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or within
the structure of a grade separation may be impounded. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017,
eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-5: VEHICLES CONSTITUTING TRAFFIC HAZARDS; IMPOUNDMENT:
A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare, and so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic, may be impounded. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-6: VEHICLES PARKED IN A PROHIBITED ZONE; IMPOUNDMENT:
   Any unattended vehicle parked at the street curbing of any zone where
parking is prohibited and where official signs are in place giving notice
thereof in violation of the prohibition may be impounded. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-
2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-7: VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS; IMPOUNDMENT:
   Any vehicle parked in a manner that it blocks a fire escape ladder, device
or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant or marked fire lane may be
impounded. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-8: VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTIONS; IMPOUNDMENT:
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection may be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection, with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-
2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-9: STOLEN VEHICLES RECOVERED BY POLICE; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered owner
cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding thirty (30) minutes, or
cannot be determined from the registration or other identifying media in the
vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen cars,
the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of impoundment and
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department.
   B.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
or her own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of
thirty (30) minutes from the time he or she is notified of its recovery, and if
the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time
specified, the vehicle may be impounded. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-10: ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER:
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-11: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the nearest garage or place of safe keeping designated by the
City and to no other place. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-12: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Any police officer is hereby authorized to cause to be impounded any
vehicle found upon public roads, highways, streets, private parking lots
accessible to the public, other public places or upon any private road, street,
alley or lane which provides access to one or more single-family or multifamily
dwellings when:
      1.   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner and the owner cannot be located, is unable or
unwilling to effect the removal of the vehicle within a reasonable amount of
time not to exceed one hour, or the preservation and collection of evidence
requires removal;
      2.   The officer has probable cause that the vehicle has been used in the
commission of a felony offense and the officer has obtained a search warrant
authorizing the search and seizure of the vehicle;
      3.   The vehicle bears a license plate which has expired for a period in
excess of ninety (90) days, bears a license plate which has been altered or
tampered with, or bears a temporary tag issued more than thirty (30) days prior
to the impoundment, or bears no license plate which would be in conformance
with the Oklahoma Vehicle License Act 1 ;
      4.   The person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested for an
alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the person
arrested or summoned before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay;
      5.   At the scene of an accident, if the owner or driver is not in a
position to take charge of the vehicle and direct or request its proper
removal;
      6.   The officer has probable cause that the person operating the vehicle
has not been granted driving privileges or that the driving privileges of the
person are currently suspended, revoked, canceled, denied or disqualified;
      7.   A police officer effects the arrest of the owner or operator of a
vehicle out of the vehicle;
      8.   The officer has probable cause that the vehicle is not insured as
required by the Compulsory Insurance Law of this State;
      9.   The vehicle is involved in a fatal motor vehicle collision and is
needed for evidentiary purposes;
      10.   The vehicle has any evidentiary value, has directly or indirectly
been involved in the commission of a crime, has been used to transport any
person who has committed any offense involving the use of a firearm, or was
directly or indirectly associated with a drive-by shooting; or
      11.   Impoundment is authorized by any other provision in this chapter or
in this Code.
   B.   Any police officer who has directed the impoundment of any vehicle, or
an authorized person in the employing agency of the officer, shall within
seventy two (72) hours of the impoundment notify the Department of Public
Safety of such impoundment. The notice of impoundment shall contain the name
and address of the owner, if known, the make, model, vehicle identification
number, registration number, date stored, place stored, and the estimated value
of the vehicle as determined by the officer. This section shall not be
construed to create any civil liability upon the State, any agency of the
State, or employee thereof for failure to provide such notice to the owner or
lienholder. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 1101 et seq.
15-13-13: SEIZED AND IMPOUNDED VEHICLE STORAGE:
   A.   Any vehicle seized or impounded by the City may, at the direction of
the Police Department, be transported to such place as the City may designate.
   B.   The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible to the City or the City's
designee for the following costs prior to the City or the City's designee
releasing the vehicle. (The City Manager, or his or her designee, may, to meet
the best ends of justice or expedite on-going investigations, release the owner
of part or all of the cost owed the City or the City's designee.):
      1.   The actual cost to have said vehicle transported to the place of
storage, including the actual towing expenses.
      2.   A storage charge as allowed by law charged by the City's designee.
For purposes of this section, the day of receipt shall constitute the first day
and the day of release shall constitute the last day.
      3.   All fees incurred by the City or the City's designee, including lien
filing fees, to either return the vehicle to the owner or sell the vehicle
pursuant to statutory authority. Prior to releasing the vehicle, the owner
shall obtain an order for release from the Seminole Police Department and pay
to the City's designee all costs listed above. If the vehicle is impounded
pursuant to any lawful authority, then those provisions shall apply in addition
to the requirements of this section. If the vehicle is impounded pursuant to
the provisions of subsections 15-13-12A4 through A10 of this chapter, then the
owner of the vehicle, or anyone authorized by the owner of the vehicle, shall
show proof of valid security verification, valid operator's license and valid
vehicle tag registration before the Police Department will issue an order for
release of the vehicle. If the owner fails to claim the vehicle within the time
prescribed by the law, then the City Manager, or the City's designee, is
directed to institute proceedings to have the vehicle sold under the applicable
Statutes of the State of Oklahoma. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-14: DURATION; RELEASE; IMPOUND FEE:
   A.   Any vehicle impounded under the authority granted herein shall be
stored and held safely at the place of safekeeping designated by the City until
a written order for its release, signed by an authorized officer of the City,
has been issued.
   B.   The order for release shall be conditioned upon presentation of
sufficient proof of ownership and/or interest in the impounded vehicles, proof
of compliance with the compulsory insurance law unless the vehicle is lawfully
towed from impound, and the payment of all impound costs and accrued storage
charges against the vehicle.
   C.   For vehicles impounded under the authority of subsections 15-13-12A4
through A10 of this chapter, such order of release shall be conditioned upon
the payment of an impound fee in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) by
the person to whom the release is issued. This impound fee shall be independent
of any fines, costs, or fees which may be assessed from citations issued to any
person for violation of traffic laws or other ordinance violations involving
the impounded vehicle and in addition to any fees owed to the towing service
for the impoundment and storage. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to
adopt rules and regulations consistent with this chapter to implement this
subsection.
   D.   There is hereby created within the Police Fund, a special account into
which all impound fees shall be deposited from which expenditures may be used
for jail, records management, equipment, training and enforcement of traffic
safety in administration of this chapter. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-
2017)
15-13-15: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE; CONTEST OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Redemption: Presentation of the order of release as provided in section
15-13-14 of this chapter at the place of impoundment, together with payment or
tender of payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges due,
shall entitle the person presenting such release to obtain possession of such
vehicle.
   B.   Contest Of Impoundment; Hearing:
      1.   Whenever any vehicle has been impounded in the manner provided for
by this chapter, the registered or legal owner of the vehicle may contest the
validity of the removal or storage by filing a written request for a hearing.
The indication in the appropriate box on the form provided by the Police
Department shall satisfy the written request requirement of this section.
      2.   The written request may be filed before or after the vehicle is
retrieved from the storage operator. Provided, however, the public agency shall
not be required to conduct a hearing if the request is received more than ten
(10) days following actual or constructive notice to the owner or driver of the
vehicle that said vehicle has been so removed or stored. Any such hearing shall
be scheduled within seventy two (72) hours of the request, excluding weekends
and holidays.
      3.   The public agency may authorize its own officer or employee to
conduct the hearing, so long as the Hearing Officer is not the same person who
directed the removal or storage of the vehicle. The hearing may, with the
consent of the person requesting the hearing, be scheduled and conducted on the
merits by telephone conference call.
      4.   The Hearing Officer shall apply the law to the evidence and make a
determination whether the vehicle removal and storage was justified. If the
removal and storage are deemed justified, the vehicle owner shall bear the cost
of reasonable removal and storage. If deemed unjustified, the owner shall not
be charged any fees or costs relating to the impoundment or storage of the
vehicle. In either case, prior to the release of the vehicle to the owner or
agent, information required under section 15-13-14 of this chapter shall be
furnished to the City. The Hearing Officer shall also be authorized to reduce
the accrued fees and costs as determined appropriate based upon the facts.
      5.   Failure of either the registered or legal owner, or their agent, to
timely request or to timely appear upon a scheduled hearing shall satisfy the
hearing requirement of this section. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
15-13-16: PENALTY:
   Except where a different punishment is prescribed, every person violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined or punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of
this Code. (Ord. 1197, 2-14-2017, eff. 2-14-2017)
TITLE 16
TRANSPORTATION
CHAPTER 1
RAILROADS
SECTION:
16-1-1: Walking On Tracks
16-1-2: Climbing On Trains
16-1-3: Obstructing Crossings
16-1-4: Speed Restrictions
16-1-5: Unnecessary Noise
16-1-1: WALKING ON TRACKS:
   It is unlawful for any person to stand, walk, sit, run or recline upon a
railroad track within the city. (2000 Code § 16-101)
16-1-2: CLIMBING ON TRAINS:
   Every person is forbidden to climb upon, hold onto, or in any manner attach
himself to any locomotive, engine or railway car within the city, while the
locomotive engine or car is in motion. (2000 Code § 16-102)
16-1-3: OBSTRUCTING CROSSINGS 1 :
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct any street, avenue or crossing
within the city limits with any railway train, locomotive or engine for a
longer period of time than five (5) minutes. (2000 Code § 16-103)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 15-5-29A of this code.
16-1-4: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   It is unlawful for any railway company engineer, fireman or other employee
to run or operate any railroad engine, train or car within the city limits at a
greater rate of speed than thirty (30) miles per hour. (2000 Code § 16-104)
16-1-5: UNNECESSARY NOISE:
   It is unlawful for any engineer or other person, while operating a
locomotive within or through the city, to cause unnecessary or prolonged blasts
with a whistle on the locomotive or to allow or cause any unnecessary noise
from the locomotive. (2000 Code § 16-105)
CHAPTER 2
TAXICABS
SECTION:
16-2-1: Definition
16-2-2: License Required; Application; Investigation
16-2-3: License Fees; Liability Insurance
16-2-4: Vehicle Requirements
16-2-5: Driver Requirements
16-2-6: Traffic Rules
16-2-7: Unlawful Use
16-2-8: Passenger Requirements
16-2-9: Taxicab Stand Requirements
16-2-10: Revocation Or Suspension Of License; Appeal
16-2-1: DEFINITION:
"Taxicab", as used in this chapter, shall mean and include any motor vehicle
for hire, designed to carry ten (10) persons or less, operated upon any street
or highway, or on call or demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for transportation for hire between such points along streets
or highways as may be directed by the passenger or passengers so being
transported. This classification shall not include:
   A.   Motor vehicles of ten (10) passenger capacity or less operated by the
owner where the cost of operation is shared by fellow workmen between their
homes and the place of regular daily employment, when not operated for more
than two (2) trips per day;
   B.   Motor vehicles operated by the owner where the cost of operation is
shared by the passengers on a "share the expense plan"; or
   C.   Motor vehicles transporting students from the public school system when
said motor vehicle is so transporting under contract with a public, private, or
parochial school board or governing body. (2000 Code § 16-201; amd. Ord. 1078,
3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
16-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   License Required; Application: It shall be unlawful for any person to
act as a driver or operator of a taxicab, automobile, or other motor vehicle
which is used in the transportation of passengers for hire within the city
without having a license issued by the city clerk, such license to be applied
for in writing on such forms as the city clerk may prescribe. Such application
shall include:
      1.   Name, age, sex, weight, height, color of eyes and hair of applicant,
his residence or address, and length of residence in the city; and place or
places of residence and employment during the past three (3) years.
      2.   Whether or not the applicant is now or has been heretofore licensed
as a taxicab driver and, if so, as to when and in what state, and whether such
license has been revoked or suspended and, if so, the date of such revocation
or suspension; the name of the person by whom the applicant is employed.
      3.   The number of times and places arrested or convicted for traffic
violations.
      4.   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or
misdemeanor, giving particulars of each conviction.
      5.   Each applicant shall furnish a copy of a valid driver's license
issued by the state of Oklahoma. (Ord. 1078, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
      6.   A current Oklahoma state bureau of investigation background check
must be attached to the application.
   B.   Investigation Of Facts Of Application:
      1.   The chief of police or other proper officer shall read all pertinent
application paperwork within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such
receipt. A report thereon, favorable or otherwise, shall be made within five
(5) working days after receiving the application or copy thereof.
      2.   If, as a result of such investigations, the applicant is found to be
unsatisfactory, the chief of police shall so endorse on the application and
return it to the city clerk's office, and no license shall be issued.
      3.   If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant is found to be
satisfactory, the chief of police shall so endorse on the application and
return it to the community development office, and the license shall then be
issued contingent upon applicant meeting all other requirements. (Ord. 1158, 9-
10-2013)
   C.   Disapproval; Time Limit To Reapply: In the event any applicant is
disapproved by the chief of police because the chief of police finds such
applicant unfit by reason of his general reputation for integrity or
responsibility, the applicant shall not be eligible to apply for a license
until six (6) months thereafter.
   D.   License Refused; Fee Retained: The application shall be submitted to
the city clerk and shall be accompanied by the payment of an investigation fee
of twenty five dollars ($25.00). In the event the applicant is refused a
license, such fee shall be retained by the city.
   E.   Appeal: Any applicant whose application is denied shall have the right
to appeal to the city council by making a written request for the city council,
and the appeal is to be heard at the next regularly scheduled council meeting.
The decision of the council shall be final. (Ord. 1078, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-
2008)
16-2-3: LICENSE FEES; LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   A.   Fees Imposed: For each owner or operator of a taxicab operated within
the city for the carrying of passengers for hire, an annual license tax of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be charged and collected from the owner or
operator. For each additional taxicab operated by a company, a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) will be charged.
   B.   Insurance Requirements: No license shall be issued for the operation of
a taxicab until the owner thereof makes satisfactory proof to the community
services director of liability insurance having been secured for each taxicab
in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for each individual
who may be injured, three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) minimum
liability for any one accident or collision, and one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) liability for property damage for any one accident, and one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for uninsured motorists. The policy
shall provide that it cannot be cancelled until ten (10) days' written notice
of the proposed cancellation has been filed with the city clerk. The owner must
provide documentation from the insurance provider that the policy covers
commercial taxi service.
   C.   Annual License: All licenses shall be issued on an annual basis under
the signature of the city manager or his designated representative. (Ord. 993,
4-12-2005; amd. Ord. 1078, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
16-2-4: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Vehicle License: No taxicab shall be operated unless it bears a
duly issued state or tribal license.
   B.   Equipment: No taxicab shall be operated unless it is equipped with
proper brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror, windshield
wipers and all other equipment required by state law, in good condition. No
taxicab shall be operated unless it is equipped with properly working heating
and air conditioning.
   C.   Vehicle Inspection: It is the duty of the chief of police to inspect
every taxicab prior to issuance of a license and so often as may be necessary
to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this section. Each taxicab shall
at all times be subject to inspection by the police officers of the city. Upon
such inspection, if the vehicle is found to be defective or unsafe in any way
for public use, the same shall not be operated or used by such owner or
operator as a taxicab. (2000 Code § 16-205; amd. Ord. 1078, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-
10-2008)
   D.   Identification Of Taxicab: Each taxicab, while operated, shall have on
each side, in letters not less than five inches (5") in height, the name of the
owner or trade name under which he is operating and the telephone number from
which same is being operated. The color scheme of all taxicabs or other
vehicles operated by the same concern shall be of similar design. If more than
one taxicab is operated by a licensee, each taxicab shall be designated by a
different number, and each number shall also appear on each side of the
taxicab. Temporary signs are not permitted. (Ord. 993, 4-12-2005; amd. Ord.
1078, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
   E.   Smoking Not Allowed: Neither the driver nor any passenger shall be
allowed to smoke in the vehicle while in operation. (Ord. 1078, 3-11-2008, eff.
4-10-2008)
16-2-5: DRIVER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   State Driver's License: No person shall drive a taxicab or be hired or
permitted to do so unless he possesses a valid driver's license issued by the
state of Oklahoma. (Ord. 993, 4-12-2005)
   B.   Driver Restrictions: It is unlawful for any driver of a taxicab while
on duty to drink any intoxicating liquor, or to use any profane or obscene
language or to shout or call to prospective passengers, or to disturb the peace
in any way. (2000 Code § 16-206)
16-2-6: TRAFFIC RULES:
   It is the duty of every driver of a taxicab to obey all traffic rules
established by statute or the provisions of this code. (2000 Code § 16-207)
16-2-7: UNLAWFUL USE:
   It is unlawful to knowingly permit any taxicab to be used in the
perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor. (2000 Code § 16-208)
16-2-8: PASSENGER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Conduct Of Passenger: It is the duty of the driver of any taxicab to
accept as a passenger any person who seeks to so use the taxicab. However, the
driver need not accept a person who is intoxicated or who conducts himself in a
disorderly manner.
   B.   Accepting Additional Passenger: No person shall be admitted to a
taxicab occupied by a passenger without the consent of the passenger.
   C.   Taking Most Direct Route: The driver shall take his passenger to the
passenger's destination by the most direct route from the place where the
passenger enters the taxicab. (2000 Code § 16-209)
16-2-9: TAXICAB STAND REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   Locations on public streets for taxicab stands shall be designated by the
council. Each taxicab stand shall be appropriately marked by signs erected
under the supervision of the chief of police. It is unlawful to park any
vehicle, other than a licensed taxicab, in any taxicab stand. A licensed
taxicab may be parked in any taxicab stand while the taxicab is in the charge
of its driver on duty awaiting a fare. (2000 Code § 16-210)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 15-8-3 of this code.
16-2-10: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
   A.   Causes For Revocation: A license may be revoked by the chief of police
for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Upon conviction, after issuance of the license, of violation of any
federal or state law.
      2.   For operating a taxicab or bus while drinking.
      3.   For unlawfully leaving the scene of an accident.
      4.   For permitting any other person to use his license.
      5.   For obliterating or erasing any official entry on the license.
      6.   Upon conviction of three (3) major traffic violations during any one
license year. A "major traffic violation" is hereby defined to be:
         a.   Speeding.
         b.   Reckless driving.
         c.   Nonobservance of lights or signs.
         d.   Driving while drunk.
         e.   Improper parking.
         f.   Making a left or U-turn where not permitted.
         g.   Driving on the wrong side of the street.
      7.   For the use of obscene or profane language in public in the presence
or hearing of any passenger.
   B.   Reasons For Suspension: A license may be suspended by the chief of
police for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days for any of the following
reasons:
      1.   First and second offenses for any major traffic violation.
      2.   Repeated infractions of minor traffic laws.
      3.   Failure or refusal to assist or cooperate with law enforcement
officers in the investigation of any accident or law violation.
      4.   Repeated failure to present a clean appearance while on duty.
   C.   Revocation Of License: Whenever a license is revoked, the chief of
police shall take up the license and forward the same to the city clerk,
together with a reason for such revocation. No person whose license has been
revoked shall be able to get a license until one year from the date of such
revocation.
   D.   Appeal: In case of the revocation or suspension of the license, the
owner or driver shall have the right to appeal to the city council by
immediately notifying the city clerk and thereafter presenting the matter at
the next regular meeting of the city council, whose decision thereon shall be
final. (Ord. 1078, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
CHAPTER 3
AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD 1
SECTION:
16-3-1: Board Created
16-3-2: Members, Terms
16-3-3: Duties
16-3-4: Conformance With Federal And State Law
 
Notes
1 1. See title 12, chapter 8 of this code for airport zoning regulations.
16-3-1: BOARD CREATED:
   There is created an airport advisory board which shall consist of five (5)
members to be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the council. (2000
Code § 16-301; amd. Ord. 1078, 3-11-2008, eff. 4-10-2008)
16-3-2: MEMBERS, TERMS:
   Members of the board shall serve for a term of three (3) years. However, for
the terms of the members first appointed, one member shall serve for one year,
one member shall serve for two (2) years and one member shall serve for three
(3) years. Thereafter their successors shall be appointed for a term of three
(3) years. (2000 Code § 16-302)
16-3-3: DUTIES:
   The board shall adopt rules and regulations for its own guidance and for the
governing of the operation of the municipal airport. The board shall submit to
the council its recommendations for the planning, establishment, development,
construction, enlargement, improvement, maintenance, equipment, operation,
regulation, protection and policing of the municipal airport and other air
navigation facilities operated and controlled by the city. (2000 Code § 16-303)
16-3-4: CONFORMANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAW:
   All recommendations made by the board and adopted by the council shall
substantially conform with the laws of the state and the standards governing
aeronautics established by the federal government. (2000 Code § 16-304)
TITLE 17
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITIES, GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
17-1-1: Utility Department, Authorized Inspections
17-1-2: Utility Fees And Billings In General
17-1-3: Failure To Pay Bills; Penalty And Disconnection Of Service
17-1-4: Utility Taps And Connections; Fees; Utility Deposits
17-1-5: Authority To Establish Or Modify Fees
17-1-6: Leasing Of All Utility Systems And Properties
17-1-7: Sole Provider System For Ambulance Service Transports
17-1-1: UTILITY DEPARTMENT, AUTHORIZED INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Department Established: A utility department is established for the
city with responsibility for the management, maintenance, care and operation of
the city's utilities. The head of the utility department is the director of
public works, who is appointed by the city manager.
   B.   Inspection Authorized: The director of public works and other personnel
in the service of any municipal utility system as designated by the director of
public works may enter any private premises served by the municipal utility
system at any reasonable times, and inspect the pipes and fixtures on the
premises. The consumer must answer fully, to the extent of his knowledge, all
reasonable questions relating to the service on his premises. (2000 Code § 17-
101; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
17-1-2: UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL:
   A.   Rates Set By Council: All fees and charges in connection with any
customer's use of the city sanitary sewer system, the city water facility
system, or the operation of the city collection and disposal of refuse and
garbage, and the city ambulance service are billed in accordance with
applicable rates set by the city council.
   B.   Monthly Billing: All fees and charges owing for any of these utility
services shall be billed on one monthly bill submitted to the customer each
month. The utility bills submitted by the city shall be due and payable on or
before fifteen (15) calendar days following the billing date. (2000 Code § 17-
102)
17-1-3: FAILURE TO PAY BILLS; PENALTY AND DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Failure To Pay Bill; Actions And Penalties: Upon failure of any
customer to pay any part of a water or utility bill submitted by the city by
the fifteenth day following the date of the bill, the following actions and
penalties shall result:
      1.   The bill will be considered delinquent. Having been declared
delinquent, a grace period of not more than twenty four (24) hours will be
granted for full payment after which the city shall disconnect or discontinue
any or all utility services.
      2.   A fee of ten percent (10%) of the total amount shall be added to any
utility bill which is not paid by the tenth day of the following billing date.
      3.   When a utility bill is not paid within twenty (20) days after the
billing date, the authorized agents of the city may disconnect or discontinue
any or all utility services to the customer after providing written notice to
the customer of the intent of the city to disconnect or discontinue any or all
of the utility services, and a service charge as set by the city council in
addition to the delinquent payment and late charges will be collected before
water service will be reinstated.
      4.   The authorized agents of the city may discontinue to furnish water
to any customer refusing or neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill
submitted after providing written notice to the customer of the intent of the
city to disconnect the water service.
      5.   An additional fee as set by the city council will be charged for
removal of a water meter due to nonpayment of a water or utility bill, in
addition to all previous charges, to renew water service.
   B.   Payment Of Charges And Penalties Required: If any utility service is
discontinued or disconnected pursuant to this section, the city, or its agents,
shall not reconnect or reestablish the service until the full amount of any
outstanding utility service bill is paid, plus the penalty provided in this
section, plus any applicable charges or expenses in reconnecting or
reestablishing the service.
   C.   Service Charge: A service charge as set by the city council is required
for any water meter service reconnection and for each time the water service is
turned off or on.
   D.   Meter Deposit Required; Refund:
      1.   Deposit Required: A meter deposit as set by the city council shall
be required for each residential or commercial water service connection. Each
meter will require a separate deposit.
      2.   Deposit Refund Policy: Refund policies pertaining to meter deposits
shall be established by the administrative staff and based on the customer's
payment record. No meter deposit shall be returned to a customer prior to a
three (3) year holding period unless service is terminated. (Ord. 1048, 11-14-
2006; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
17-1-4: UTILITY TAPS AND CONNECTIONS; FEES; UTILITY DEPOSITS:
   A.   Application For Utility Tap Or Connection; Deposit:
      1.   The director of public works or his designee shall approve any
request for a water tap and connection, a sewer tap on an existing line, or a
sewer tap on a new line. Prior to granting approval by the city, the customer
shall have paid the connection or tap charge as applicable and set by motion or
resolution of the council.
      2.   A separate deposit is required for each meter. The deposit shall
serve as a guarantee for the payment of charges for utility service and other
amounts owed to the city in connection with the utility service. Said deposit
shall be held in trust by the city. When a customer's utility service is
disconnected, the deposit or any part of such amount deposited which remains
after all such charges and amounts due the city have been satisfied, shall be
returned to the customer.
   B.   Reconnection Fee: A fee for reconnection of utility service where the
service has been turned off or a meter has been disconnected by the city for
any reason, or for any reconnection of utility service done after regular
working hours (before 8:00 A.M. or after 5:00 P.M. Monday through Friday) or on
any legal holiday, the charge shall be set by the city council by motion or
resolution.
   C.   Infrastructure Improvement; Job Tracking Reports: Any commercial entity
attempting to access an infrastructure improvement funded by the community
development block grant "EDIF" must first agree in writing to provide job
tracking data. The data collected will be held "confidential" and for a period
of time ending one year after the physical completion of the infrastructure
improvement or as required by the Oklahoma department of commerce. Physical
completion will be determined by the date of the final inspection performed by
the engineer or inspector of the construction contract associated to the
community development block grant funds. (Ord. 1048, 11-14-2006; amd. Ord.
1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
17-1-5: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH OR MODIFY FEES:
   The city council, by ordinance or resolution, shall have the power to
establish or modify rates and charges governing all aspects of city utility
services. This shall include, but not be limited to, monthly service charges,
deposits, connection, reconnection, transfer, tampering and cleaning fees,
insufficient check charges, and any other fees associated with the operation of
city utilities. (Ord. 1048, 11-14-2006)
17-1-6: LEASING OF ALL UTILITY SYSTEMS AND PROPERTIES:
   The city hereby consents and agrees to the leasing of all the city's
proprietary, revenue producing utility properties, systems and facilities; and
also those certain public recreational facilities located upon the following
described real property situated in Seminole County, state of Oklahoma:
   The northeast quarter of the southwest quarter (NE/4 SW/4) and the northwest
quarter of the southwest quarter (NW/4 SW/4) and the southeast quarter of the
northwest quarter (SE/4 NW/4);
and a tract described as beginning at the southeast corner of the southwest
quarter of the northwest quarter (SW/4 NW/4); thence north four hundred (400)
feet; thence west two hundred sixty two and eight tenths (262.8) feet; thence
south four hundred (400) feet; thence east two hundred sixty two and eight
tenths (262.8) feet to the point of beginning, containing 2.43 acres more or
less;
and a tract described as beginning at the northeast corner of the southwest
quarter of the southwest quarter (SW/4 SW/4); thence west two hundred forty
four (244) feet to the center line of road; thence southwest along road one
hundred five (105) feet; thence east two hundred twenty six and five tenths
(226.5) feet; thence north one hundred (100) feet to the point of beginning
containing .52 acres more or less;
   The west nine hundred ninety (990) feet of the northwest quarter of the
southeast quarter (NW/4 SE/4);
all in section twenty two (22), township nine north (T9N), range six east
(R6E), Seminole County, Oklahoma
   Together with all and singular appurtenances and hereditaments thereto
appertaining and belonging, including (without limitation by reason of express
mention) all buildings and improvements now or hereafter located thereon and
all fixtures now or hereafter existing thereto, together with any and all
additions, enlargements, extensions and improvements thereto acquired by the
city during the life of the lease for a primary term of fifty (50) years,
renewable for successive like terms, to the trustees of the Seminole public
works authority (a public trust of which the city is the beneficiary), with
such lease to become effective as of one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01)
A.M. on the day following the effective date of ordinance 520, adopted May 15,
1973; and the mayor of the city hereby is authorized and directed to execute
the aforesaid lease upon behalf of the city as lessor, in several multiple
originals, and after the same shall have been attested by the city clerk, to
deliver such lease to the trustees of the aforesaid authority. (2000 Code § 17-
106)
17-1-7: SOLE PROVIDER SYSTEM FOR AMBULANCE SERVICE TRANSPORTS:
   Seminole fire department, DBA Medicus, the emergency medical service
operated under the Seminole medical authority, shall henceforth constitute a
sole provider system for ambulance service transports. It shall be unlawful for
any person to engage in the business of ambulance service transports within the
city unless and until such person is licensed therefor or has a contract
therefor as an authorized representative of the city, or has the direct consent
or permission of the mayor and city council. The provisions of this section
shall not be construed or applied to limit the operation of any emergency
medical service district established and operating pursuant to the Oklahoma
constitution section 9C of article X. Additionally, all types of patient
transports enumerated under 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-2515, subsection F,
shall be exempt from this section. (Ord. 1144, 4-10-2012)
CHAPTER 2
WATER DEPARTMENT AND SERVICES
SECTION:
17-2-1: Water System As Public Utility
17-2-2: Water Rates
17-2-3: Application For Water Service
17-2-4: All Property To Be Connected With Water System
17-2-5: Individual Water Wells
17-2-1: WATER SYSTEM AS PUBLIC UTILITY:
   The water system of the City is hereby declared to be a public utility and a
proper source of City revenues and expenditures for the upkeep and maintenance
of the water system. (2000 Code § 17-201)
17-2-2: WATER RATES:
   A.   Fees And Charges Set By Council: The City Council shall from time to
time, with the approval of the Seminole Utility Authority, by ordinance, amend
the fees and charges for water use by customers of the City water system. A
copy of the current fees or charges shall be kept on file in the Office of the
City Clerk. (2000 Code § 17-202; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
   B.   Rates Enumerated: Effective July 14, 2015, water rates to consumers
thereof within the City are established as follows:
      1.   Rates:
 
For the first 1,000 gallons or fractional part thereof $13.20
Over 1,000 gallons, per 1,000 gallons                  3.20
Users of over 500,000 gallons, per 1,000 gallons       2.35
 
      2.   Automatic Annual Rate Increase: An automatic five percent (5%)
increase shall be assessed to the rates each year commencing as of January 1,
2012, unless deferred by resolution. (Ord. 1192, 4-12-2016, eff. 4-12-2016)
      3.   Multi-Unit Family Dwellings, Computation Of Rates: Provided,
however, water rates and charges for multi-unit family dwellings on a master
meter shall be computed as follows:
   By each unit of a multi-unit family dwelling being charged under the above
schedule with an average water consumption per unit, with the total of the
average water consumption per unit charges added to arrive at a total figure.
The average water consumption per unit figure shall be calculated by dividing
the total amount of water used for the billing period by eighty percent (80%)
of the total number of units in the multi-unit family dwelling where the
occupancy has a water consumption per unit figure shall be calculated by
dividing the total amount of water used for the billing period by the total
number of units. "Multi-unit family dwelling" shall be defined as including,
but not limited to, apartment complexes, triplexes, duplexes, rental homes, and
mobile home parks. (Ord. 1043, 9-26-2006, eff. 9-26-2006)
17-2-3: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE:
   Any person desiring to secure water from the City water system shall make an
application therefor to the Director of Public Works or his designee on an
application form to be provided by the City Clerk. The applicant shall give
such reasonable information as the Director of Public Works may request. He
shall state in the application that he will abide by all ordinances, rules and
regulations governing the water system of the City. (2000 Code § 17-203; amd.
Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
17-2-4: ALL PROPERTY TO BE CONNECTED WITH WATER SYSTEM:
Every owner of property within the Municipal Limits having thereon any building
for human habitation, and within one quarter of a mile (1,320 feet) of a water
main of the City water system, or for any other purpose requiring the us of
water, shall, before the same is occupied or used, connect same with the water
system of the City, and shall prepare and fit same so that the water of the
City may be used thereon. (Ord. 1180, 2-9-2016)
17-2-5: INDIVIDUAL WATER WELLS:
   A.   No person shall drill or enlarge any water well, or subsequently use
the water from such well, except upon:
      1.   Application for a permit for such activity or usage from the
Community Development Department;
      2.   Payment of a one hundred dollars ($100.00) permit fee; and
      3.   Compliance with this Code and the rules and regulations of the
Oklahoma Department of Health, Department of Environmental Quality and Oklahoma
Water Resources Board.
   B.   Water from such wells shall be used only for agricultural purposes on
the premises where the well is located, and there shall be no interconnections
of any kind between such well and the water supply of the City. Any non-
agricultural usage existing before March 1, 2016, may be continued to the same
extent and for the same purposes, but such uses shall not be extended or
increased. For purposes of this section "agricultural purposes" shall be
defined as the raising of crops and other vegetation for use or consumption, as
well as the rearing of domestic animals.
   C.   All wells drilled, deepened or completed are subject to inspection and
regulation of the City, and the operation of such wells is subject to
inspection and regulation of the City, so as to prevent pollution and/or damage
to all water producing sands.
   D.   Wells may be located anywhere on the property owner's premises;
however, any well located outside of the rear areas of the premises may have
only the wellhead exposed with no other accompanying structure, pursuant to the
applicable zoning code of the City. No well may be drilled on an existing
easement or right-of-way.
   E.   All drilling mud must be removed manually and disposed of in accordance
with established laws and regulations. Under no circumstances may drilling mud
escape the property other than for property disposal as set forth herein.
   F.   Should the City subsequently furnish water services to users of private
water wells drawing water for household and/or commercial purposes, those
persons owning such wells shall within 60 days connect to the public water
supply. In such event, well water may continue being utilized for irrigation
purposes, swimming pools, and other purposes not inconsistent with these
provisions. (Ord. 1180, 2-9-2016)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM AND SERVICES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
17-3A-1: Sewer System As Public Utility
17-3A-2: Rates
17-3A-3: Facilities Required
17-3A-4: Definitions
17-3A-5: Connections Within And Without City Limits
17-3A-6: Septic Tank Requirements, Rules Adopted
17-3A-7: Sewage Facility; Violation; Penalty
17-3A-8: Prohibited Discharges Designated
17-3A-9: Prohibited Discharges; Violation; Penalty
17-3A-10: New Sewers And Connections
17-3A-11: Septage Hauler Permits And Fees; Landfill Leachate
17-3A-1: SEWER SYSTEM AS PUBLIC UTILITY:
   The sewer system of the City is hereby declared to be a public utility and a
proper source of City revenues and expenditures for the upkeep and maintenance
of the sewer system. (2000 Code § 17-301)
17-3A-2: RATES:
   A.   Rates Established:
      1.   Rates Enumerated: Effective July 14, 2015, rates for usage of the
Municipally owned wastewater treatment system shall be established as follows:
 
For up to 999 gallons of metered water consumption                       $14.05
For 1,000 gallons up to 500,000 gallons of metered water consumption or
increment thereof, there will be an additional charge per thousand       2.35
gallons of
For above 500,000 gallons of metered water consumption, there will be an 2.10
additional charge per thousand gallons of
 
   In the case of users not on a metered basis, the Director of Public Works
shall establish estimated water consumption based on a comparison of the non-
metered user with a metered use of similar class. Example: A non-metered family
of four (4) will be compared to a typical family of four (4) with a water meter
to establish water consumption.
      2.   Automatic Annual Rate Increase: An automatic five percent (5%)
increase shall be assessed to the established rates each year commencing as of
January 1, 2012, unless deferred by resolution. (Ord. 1193, 4-12-2016, eff. 4-
12-2016)
      3.   Exception To Established Rates: Exceptions to sewer rates for
certain industries, such as water bottling companies, shall be in effect. These
rates shall be as follows:
         a.   Sewer rates for excepted industries shall mirror Oklahoma
Department of Environmental Quality standards of one hundred thirty five (135)
gallons per day per employee. A base rate for ten (10) or less employees shall
be seventy five dollars ($75.00) per month. At any time there is an increase in
employment, the company shall be invoiced the base rate plus a sewer rate equal
to one hundred thirty five (135) gallons per day per employee for all but the
first ten (10) employees.
         b.   As an alternate, the industry may elect to purchase and install,
at their expense, an effluent flow meter and be billed for the exact gallons.
The meter shall be calibrated each year at the owner's expense. (Ord. 1202, 4-
11-2017)
   B.   Formula For Volume Basis Charges: As the biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD), suspended solids, and other pollutant concentrations discharged shall be
approximately equal for all domestic users, users shall be charged on a volume
basis in accordance with the following formula:
 
Cu = Cb + Ct/Vt(Vu)
Symbols And Definitions:
Cu = A user's charge per unit of time
Cb = A user's base minimum charge (for fixed operation and maintenance costs)
     per unit of time
Ct = Variable operation and maintenance (O&M) costs per unit of time
Vt = Total volume contribution from all users per unit of time (may include
     extraneous flows)
Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
 
   C.   Surcharge Formula: For any user, when BOD exceeds three hundred
milligrams per liter (300 mg/L) 1 , the suspended solids exceed three hundred
milligrams per liter (300 mg/L), or when other pollutant concentrations exceed
the range of concentrations of these pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a
surcharge shall be added to the basic charge. This surcharge shall be
calculated by the following formula:
C s = (Bc (B) + Sc (S) + Pc (P)) Vu
Symbols And Definitions:
Cs  = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength
Bc  = Variable O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand
      (BOD) = $0.035 per pound per day (calculated December 1988)
B   = Concentration of BOD from the user above a base level of 300 mg/l
Sc  = Variable O&M cost for treatment of unit of suspended solids (SS) = $0.07
      per mg/l per day (calculated December 1988)
S   = Concentration of 55 from a user above the base level of 300 mg/l
Pc  = Variable O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant
P   = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level
Vu  = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
 
   D.   User Charges, Periodic Review: The user charges shall be reviewed not
less often than every two (2) years regarding the wastewater contribution of
users and user classes, the total costs of the operation and maintenance and
replacement of the treatment works, and its approved user charge schedule. The
charges for users or user classes shall be revised to accomplish the following:
      1.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes;
      2.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance and replacement costs necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works; and
      3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year, and
the rates shall be adjusted accordingly.
   E.   Toxic Pollutants; Payment Of Increased Costs: Each user that discharges
any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing the
effluent or the sludge of the treatment works shall pay for such increased
costs.
   F.   Notification Of Charges For Wastewater Treatment: Each user shall be
notified at least annually, in conjunction with the regular bill, of the sewer
use rate and the portion of the user charges which are attributable to
wastewater treatment services. Costs shall be broken down to show the operation
and maintenance costs attributable to that user.
   G.   Infiltration And Inflow Charges: The cost of operation and maintenance
for all flows not directly attributable to users (such as infiltration/inflow)
shall be distributed among users on the same basis as operation and maintenance
charges.
   H.   Financial Management System: A financial management system shall be
established and maintained by the utility office of the city to document
compliance with federal regulations pertaining to user charges. The system will
account for all revenues generated and expenditures for operation and
maintenance and replacement.
   I.   User Charge System, Precedence: The user charge system shall take
precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements or contracts between the
city and any of the users which are inconsistent with applicable federal
regulations regarding user charge systems.
   J.   Monthly Billings; Delinquencies:
      1.   Users will be billed on a monthly basis with payment due on the
tenth of the month. Users on metered water service will be billed on the same
notice as water charges and will be designated as a separate entry. Users of
the wastewater system not on metered water service will be billed monthly on an
individual notice for wastewater service at a rate established by the director
of public works.
      2.   Users with delinquent accounts of five (5) days will be notified in
writing by the director of public works or his designee that water or
wastewater services will be terminated unless the account is paid in full.
      3.   The director of public works or his designee will utilize the law
enforcement agency to assist as required in the control and management of the
user charge system. (2000 Code § 17-302; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-
2008)
 
Notes
1 1. Maximum limit for average domestic waste.
17-3A-3: FACILITIES REQUIRED 1 :
A. Requirement: Every residence and building in which humans reside or are
employed or congregate shall be required to have a sanitary method for the
disposal of human excreta. The toilets required by this article shall be the
sanitary water closet type when located within two hundred fifty feet (250') of
a sanitary sewer, and accessible thereto, and the sanitary pit privy type when
not so located.
   B.   Costs Borne By Owner: The cost of the provision of such facilities
shall be borne by the owner of the property. (2000 Code § 17-303)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-2-17 of this code, and subsection 17-3A-10C of this
  article.
17-3A-4: DEFINITIONS:
   Whenever the following words or terms are used in this article, they shall
have the meanings herein ascribed to them:
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Only human excreta and other such wastes which shall not be
harmful or injurious to the city sewage system, and specifically excluding all
salt water, chemicals or other substances which may be harmful to the system.
   SANITARY PIT PRIVY: A privy which is built, rebuilt or constructed so as to
conform to the specifications approved by the state health department.
   SANITARY WATER CLOSET: The flush type toilet which is connected with a sewer
line of sufficient capacity and so constructed as to carry away the contents at
all times. (2000 Code § 17-304)
17-3A-5: CONNECTIONS WITHIN AND WITHOUT CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Right To Construct: A person or group of individuals, corporation or
firm owning or occupying property within the city limits or within five (5)
miles of the city limits shall have the right to construct, at its or their own
proper expense, connections with the sewer system of the city, for the disposal
of domestic sewage under the restrictions and regulations hereafter set forth,
all as authorized by applicable law or ordinance.
   B.   State And City Approval Required: All private sewer connections made
with the city sewage disposal system may only be made after the approval of the
plan or plans of such connections by the state board of health and the city
engineer.
   C.   Fee: A fee shall be paid for each unit connection; provided, that the
term "unit connection" means a residence, an office, a workshop, a warehouse or
a store building. (2000 Code § 17-305)
   D.   Enforcement Official: The director of public works shall be advised as
to the addition or removal of any and all such unit connections, and payment of
the fee shall be made to the director of public works. (2000 Code § 17-305;
amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
17-3A-6: SEPTIC TANK REQUIREMENTS, RULES ADOPTED:
   Septic tanks may be used for the disposal of human and domestic waste within
the city limits only if the same are built and constructed according to
specifications as provided by the sanitary department of the city and the state
board of health, and the regulations of these departments. The city hereby
adopts and incorporates herein by reference title 252 of the Oklahoma
administrative code, chapter 641, "Individual And Small Public On-Site Sewage
Treatment Systems", the most recent edition thereof, to govern private sewage
disposal systems. (2000 Code § 17-306; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
17-3A-7: SEWAGE FACILITY; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   Any person who violates any provision of this article, either by doing that
which is prohibited or by failing or refusing to do that which is commanded, is
guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. (2000 Code § 17-307)
17-3A-8: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES DESIGNATED 1 :
A. Injurious Discharges: No person may discharge to public sewers any waste
which by itself or by interaction with other wastes may:
      1.   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      2.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      3.   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   B.   Discharges Allowed: All discharges shall be prohibited except those
that meet the criteria for "domestic wastewater". Biochemical oxygen demand
concentration shall not exceed three hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l),
unless approved by the city council. Suspended solids shall not exceed three
hundred milligrams per liter (300 mg/l).
   C.   Industrial Discharges, Toxic Pollutants; Surcharge:
      1.   All industrial discharges of toxic pollutants are prohibited.
Industrial wastewater which exceeds the limits for "domestic wastewater", as
defined above, shall be pretreated to reduce its concentration to that of
domestic wastewater prior to discharge to the sanitary sewer system.
      2.   The city may, at its option, require the industry to pay a surcharge
for excessive strength wastewater in lieu of pretreatment of the excessive
strength wastewater. The surcharge shall be based upon excessive strength
charges as shown in subsection 17-3A-2D of this article, "user charges".
      3.   In no case shall the industrial discharge interfere with the
wastewater treatment processes or facilities nor shall the industrial discharge
create a hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant
effluent.
   D.   New Connections: Any new connections from inflow sources into the
sanitary sewer portions of the sewer system shall be prohibited.
   E.   Prohibited Substances: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged the following substances if it appears likely, in the opinion of the
superintendent of water and sewage treatment, that such wastes can harm the
sewers, the sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property,
or otherwise constitute a nuisance. The prohibited substances are:
      1.   Flammable or explosive materials.
      2.   Water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oil in excess of one
hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l), or containing any substance which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures higher than thirty two degrees
Fahrenheit (32°F).
      3.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
      4.   Any garbage or food waste not properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any grinder or shredder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
(3/4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to review and approval by the
superintendent of water and sewage treatment.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing the metals listed below or other
toxic substances in quantities determined by the superintendent of water and
sewage treatment to be harmful:
   Antimony
   Arsenic
   Barium
   Beryllium
   Bismuth
   Boron
   Cadmium
   Chromium
   Cobalt
   Copper
   Iron
   Lead
   Manganese
   Mercury
   Molybdenum
   Nickel
   Rhenium
   Selenium
   Silver
   Strontium
   Tellurium
   Tin
   Uranium
   Zinc
      6.   Any water or waste containing iron pickling wastes or plating
solutions.
      7.   Any water or waste containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances. (2000 Code § 17-308)
      8.   Any radioactive wastes of a half-life or concentration determined by
the superintendent of water and sewage treatment to be harmful.
      9.   Any water or wastes having pH lower than 5.5, or having a pH higher
than 9.5, or having any corrosive property capable of damaging installations,
equipment or personnel of the sewerage works.
      10.   Solid or viscous substances of such size or in such quantities
capable of causing obstruction of sewers or interference with operation of
sewage works, such as ashes, cinders, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair fleshings, entrails and paper containers.
      11.   Wastes containing unusual concentrations of suspended solids, such
as fuller's earth, lime or clay.
      12.   Wastes containing unusual concentrations of dissolved substances,
such as sodium chloride or sodium sulfate.
      13.   Wastes containing unusual concentrations of organic material, such
as whey, milk, yeast, blood, or unusual biochemical oxygen demand (BOD),
chemical oxygen demand (COD), or chlorine requirement, constituting a
significant load on the sewage treatment facilities.
      14.   Material which causes unusual volume of flow or concentration of
wastes constituting slugs which adversely affect the sewage treatment process.
   F.   Enforcement Actions Of City; Application For Permit:
      1.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or proposed to be discharged,
or if, in the opinion of the director of public works, might be accidentally
discharged, which contain the substances described above, the director of
public works may prohibit their discharge; may require the establishment to
alter or initially construct its facilities so that accidental discharges may
not occur; require the responsible party to pretreat the wastes before
discharge; limit the quantity, rates and times of discharge; require the
installation of a control manhole for observation, sampling and metering of the
wastes; and assess a surcharge based on the quantity and strength of the
wastes.
      2.   If pretreatment is to be accomplished, the design, installation and
operation of the plant and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the director of public works or his designee.
      3.   Applications for permits for sewer connections for industrial wastes
shall show the following information:
         a.   A plat of the property showing all existing sewers and storm
drains;
         b.   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be done
under the permit;
         c.   A schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes produced
or to be produced, a description of the character of such waste, the daily
volume and maximum rates of discharge and representative analysis; and
         d.   The name of the firm or person who will perform the work covered
by the application.
   G.   Notice Of Nonconformance; Failure To Remedy: The director of public
works shall cause to be served on the owner or occupant of any establishment
having sewer connections which do not conform to the provisions hereof at the
time of the effective date hereof, a notice in writing advising that
requirements must be met within one hundred twenty (120) days. If after one
hundred twenty (120) days from the day of service of the notice, the proper
measures have not been taken, enforcement action may be initiated as set forth
elsewhere in this article.
   H.   Periodic Testing Of Samples Of Wastes: The director of public works or
his designee shall cause samples of wastes from industrial establishments to be
obtained and tested periodically, to determine the quantity and composition
thereof. Standards adopted by the state department of health will be used to
determine action by the director. (2000 Code § 17-308; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-
2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 17-3B-2 of this chapter.
17-3A-9: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor; Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who continues any
violation beyond the time limit provided for in this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section 1-1-8 of this code for each act of violation and for each day of
violation.
   B.   Other Criminal And Civil Remedies: In addition to proceeding under
authority of subsection A of this section, the city is entitled to pursue all
other criminal and civil remedies to which it is entitled under authority of
statutes or other ordinances against a person continuing prohibited discharges.
   C.   Termination Of Service: The city reserves the right to terminate
service to any customer that fails to pay bills when due or discharges any
prohibited wastes into the sewer system. (2000 Code § 17-309)
17-3A-10: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Connection; Compliance With Building Code: The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the
building code as currently adopted by the city and other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. (2000 Code § 17-310; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-
8-2008)
   B.   Design And Construction; Compliance With State Regulations: All new
sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the Oklahoma state department of health regulations.
   C.   Mandatory Connection To Public Sewer: The building sewer within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the public sewer shall be connected to the public
sewer as indicated below 1 :
      1.   A newly constructed building shall connect immediately;
      2.   Existing buildings, not previously on the public sewer, which are
being remodeled such that an increase in wastewater flow is expected shall
connect to the public sewer within one hundred eighty (180) days;
      3.   Existing buildings, not previously on the public sewer, which are
experiencing problems with their septic tank or lateral lines shall connect
within one hundred eighty (180) days in lieu of repairing the private sewer
system; or
      4.   Existing buildings, not previously on the public sewer, which have
been deemed to constitute a public health nuisance by appropriate health
officials shall connect within one hundred eighty (180) days of notification.
      5.   Existing buildings with private sewer systems which are functioning
properly shall not be required to connect to the public sewer. (2000 Code § 17-
310)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-2-17 of this code, and subsection 17-3A-3A of this
  article.
17-3A-11: SEPTAGE HAULER PERMITS AND FEES; LANDFILL LEACHATE:
   A.   Permit Application:
      1.   A septage hauler who holds a current license through Oklahoma
department of environmental quality may apply for a permit through the public
works department to use the Seminole wastewater treatment plant to dispose of
septage.
      2.   The issued permit shall be valid from July 1 through June 30.
   B.   Permit Fees: Nonrefundable permit fees shall be implemented as follows:
 
Gallons          Fee
   0 - 1,250  $ 750.00
   1,250 - 2,51,500.00
   Over 2,500 2,500.00
 
   C.   Violations, Revocation: Any permit under this section may be revoked if
any city, state or federal laws or ordinances are violated.
   D.   Landfill Leachate:
      1.   Allowable: The Seminole wastewater treatment plant may allow
leachate from area landfills. It shall be analyzed by a state certified
laboratory prior to disposal at the wastewater treatment plant, with a report
given to the plant supervisor before disposal.
      2.   Leachate Fees: Nonrefundable fees shall be two dollars ($2.00) per
barrel. (Ord. 1179, 9-8-2015)
ARTICLE B. INDUSTRIAL WASTE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
17-3B-1: Definitions
17-3B-2: Use Of Public Sewers; Prohibited Discharges
17-3B-3: Actions Of City Regarding Prohibited Discharges
17-3B-4: Grease, Oil And Sand Traps
17-3B-5: Preliminary Treatment And Flow Equalizing
17-3B-6: Control Manhole Required
17-3B-7: Measurements And Tests
17-3B-8: Special Agreements
17-3B-9: Payment For Industrial Waste Discharges
17-3B-10: Permit For Discharge Of Industrial Waste
17-3B-11: Penalty For Damage
17-3B-12: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
17-3B-13: Authority To Disconnect Service
17-3B-14: Penalties
17-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The following terms, as used in this article, shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   APPROVING AUTHORITY: The chief executive or his duly authorized
representative.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen by weight, expressed
in mg/l, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory conditions for five (5) days at a temperature of twenty degrees
centigrade (20°C).
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys such wastes to the building sewer
beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the sewer or other
place of disposal (also called house lateral and house connection).
   COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): A measure of the oxygen consuming capacity,
expressed in mg/l, of inorganic and organic matter present in water or
wastewater. It is expressed as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical
oxidant in a specific test. It does not differentiate between stable and
unstable matter, and thus does not necessarily correlate with biochemical
oxygen demand.
   CITY: The city or any authorized person acting in its behalf.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Waterborne waste normally discharging into the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, and institutions, which may or may not contain stormwater
and industrial wastes.
   GARBAGE: Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from the preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food; and from the handling, processing, storage and
sale of food products and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Waterborne solids, liquids, or gaseous wastes resulting
from and discharged, permitted to flow, or escaping from the industrial,
manufacturing, or food processing operation or process, or from the development
of any natural resource, or any mixture of these with water or domestic
wastewater, or distinct from normal domestic wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE: The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the city's sewerage system.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l): The same as parts per million and is a weight
to weight volume ratio; the milligram per liter value multiplied by the factor
8.34 shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, ditch, lake, or other body of
surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Normal wastewater for the city in which the
average concentration of suspended solids and five (5) day BOD is established
at not more than two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l).
   PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, industry, municipal or private corporation,
association, governmental agency, or other entity, and agents, servants, or
employees.
   pH: The reciprocal of the logarithm (base 10) of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed in grams per liter.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
shall be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties shall have
equal rights and the use of which is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys domestic wastewater or wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground unpolluted wastes
are not intentionally passed.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SLUG: Any discharge of water, wastewater, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.
   STANDARD ANALYSIS METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set
forth in the latest edition at the time of analysis of "Methods For Chemical
Analysis Of Water And Wastes" as prepared by the environmental protection
agency's water quality control laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio.
   STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage but excludes domestic wastewater and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORMWATER: Rainfall or any other form of precipitation.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or in water,
wastewater, or other liquids, and which are largely removable by a filtration
device.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER OR WASTE: Water or waste containing none of the following:
free or emulsified grease or oil; acids or alkalis, phenols, or other
substances producing taste or odor in receiving water; toxic or poisonous
substances in suspension, colloidal state or solution; and noxious or otherwise
obnoxious, odorous gases. It shall contain not more than ten milligrams per
liter (10 mg/l) each of suspended solids and BOD. The color shall not exceed
twenty (20) color units as measured by the platinum-cobalt method of
determination as specified in standard analysis methods.
   WASTEWATER: A combination of the water carried waste from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments; together with
such ground, surface and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES: All facilities for collection, pumping, treating and
disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT: All facilities for collection, pumping,
treatment and all city owned facilities, devices and structures used for
receiving wastewater, industrial waste, and sludges from the city wastewater
facility.
   WATERCOURSE: A natural or manmade channel in which a flow of water occurs,
either continuously or intermittently. (2000 Code § 17-321; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-
8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
17-3B-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS; PROHIBITED DISCHARGES 1 :
   A.   Prohibited Discharges Enumerated: No person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters
to any sanitary sewer. Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or
storm sewers, or to a natural watercourse approved by the approving authority.
Industrial cooling water may be discharged, on approval of the approving
authority, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural watercourse.
      3.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) or any discharge which causes the temperature
of the total wastewater treatment plant influent to increase at a rate of ten
degrees Fahrenheit (10°F) or more per hour, or a combined total increase to a
plant influent temperature of one hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (110°F).
      4.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) (0 to 65 degrees centigrade).
      5.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the approving authority.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing objectionable or toxic, or poisonous
substances, or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by the approving
authority for such materials.
      8.   Any waters or wastes containing obnoxious, toxic, or poisonous
solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater
treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any
hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant, including,
but not limited to:
         a.   Any cyanide greater than 0.0100 mg/l.
         b.   Any fluoride other than that contained in the public water
supply.
         c.   Concentrations of the following greater than the mg/l amounts
indicated, to be measured at the point of discharge to the sewer line:
Element        Milligrams Per Liter
                        (mg/l)
Element        Milligrams Per Liter
                        (mg/l)
Aluminum                   1.0000
Arsenic                    0.0500
Barium                     5.0000
Boron                      1.0000
Cadmium                    0.0200
Chromium (Hexa)            0.0500
Chromium (Tri)             5.0000
Copper                     0.1000
Iron                       0.3000
Lead                       0.1000
Manganese                  1.000
Mercury                    0.0050
Nickel                     1.000
Phenol                     0.0050
Selenium                   0.0200
Silver                     0.1000
Zinc                       1.000
 
         d.   Water or wastes which cause concentrations of the following
parameters such as: total dissolved solids, chlorides, alkalinity, and sulfates
in excess of twenty percent (20%) of the amount normally present in the raw
water supply; these concentrations to be measured at the point of discharge
into the sewer line.
         e.   All other heavy metals and toxic substances, including, but not
limited to, the following, shall be excluded from the wastewater system unless
a permit specifying the conditions of pretreatment, concentrations, volumes,
etc., is obtained from the city: antimony, beryllium, cobalt, molybdenum, tin,
uranylion, pesticides, rhenium, strontium, tellurium, herbicides, fungicides;
and any substance causing an excessive chemical oxygen demand, of greater than
five hundred milligrams per liter (500 mg/l).
      9.   Any waters or wastes having pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5,
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel at wastewater facilities.
      10.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders, lime slurry, lime residues, slops, chemical
residues, paint residues, or bulk solids.
      11.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols, hydrogen sulfide, or other
taste and odor producing substances, in such concentration exceeding limits
which may be established by the approving authority as necessary, after
treatment of composite wastewater, to meet the requirements of the state,
federal, or other public agencies having jurisdiction for such discharge to the
receiving waters.
      12.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentrations as may exceed limits established by the approving authority, in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      13.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids greater than two
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) (such as, but not limited to,
fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved solids in
excess of twenty percent (20%) of that normally found in the raw water supply
(such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD (greater than the amount established in section 17-
3A-8 of this chapter), COD, or chlorine demand in such quantities as to
constitute a significant load on the wastewater treatment works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting a
"slug" as defined in section 17-3B-1 of this article shall be regulated to
equalize the flow and/or concentration to levels acceptable to the city if such
waste can damage the collections facilities, impair the treatment process,
incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater, or render the
waste unfit for stream disposal and industrial use.
      14.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree
that the wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of
other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
      15.   Except in quantities or concentrations, or with provisions as
stipulated herein, it shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or
individual to discharge water or wastes to the sanitary sewer that:
         a.   Can deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as
to clog the sewers;
         b.   Can overload skimming and grease handling equipment;
         c.   Are not amenable to bacterial action, and will, therefore, pass
to the receiving waters without being affected by normal wastewater treatment
processes; or
         d.   Can have a deleterious effect on the treatment process due to
excessive quantities.
   B.   Mandatory Use Of Public Sewer System: The public sewer system will be
used, whenever such system is available, by all persons discharging any
wastewater, industrial waste, other polluted liquids, or unpolluted waters or
liquids, unless an exception is granted by the approving authority.
   C.   Wastewater Discharged On Public Or Private Property: No person shall
deposit or discharge any wastewater, industrial waste, other polluted waters or
liquids on public or private property, in or adjacent to any natural outlet or
any natural watercourse, or in any storm sewer within the city, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the city, without approval of the approving
authority. In providing approval, the approving authority will verify that such
wastes will receive suitable treatment within the provisions of federal, state,
or local laws, regulations, and/or ordinances. (2000 Code § 17-322)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 17-3A-8 of this title.
17-3B-3: ACTIONS OF CITY REGARDING PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Actions Of City: If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are
proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in section 17-3B-2 of this article, and
which, in the judgment of the approving authority, may have a deleterious
effect upon the wastewater works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a health hazard or public
nuisance, the approving authority may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; or
      4.   Require payment to cover the cost of handling and treating the
wastes under the provisions of article A of this chapter.
   B.   Design And Installation Subject To Review: If the approving authority
permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and
installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject to the review and
approval of the approving authority, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   C.   Application: The approving authority will either apply subsection A1,
A2, A3 of this section and will apply subsection A4 of this section in all
cases. (2000 Code § 17-323)
17-3B-4: GREASE, OIL AND SAND TRAPS:
   Grease, oil, and sand traps shall be provided for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such traps shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All traps shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the approving authority, and shall be located as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. (2000 Code §
17-324)
17-3B-5: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT AND FLOW EQUALIZING:
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for
any wastes or waters, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense. (2000 Code § 17-325)
17-3B-6: CONTROL MANHOLE REQUIRED:
   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes shall install a suitable control manhole, together with such necessary
meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be
accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the approving authority. The manhole shall be installed by
the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times. (2000 Code § 17-326)
17-3B-7: MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS:
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Methods For Chemical Analysis Of Water
And Wastes", and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at the manhole. Sampling shall be carried out by
customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to health, life, limb
and property. (The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24
hour composite sample from all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether
a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and
suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24 hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.) (2000 Code § 17-327)
17-3B-8: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern,
as set forth in article A of this chapter; provided, that the waste control
order (discharge permits), Oklahoma department of environmental quality orders,
and other federal, state and local laws are not violated. (2000 Code § 17-328;
amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
17-3B-9: PAYMENT FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISCHARGES:
   A.   Agreement Between City And Contributor: If the approving authority
determines that an industrial waste is acceptable under the discretionary
powers given him under this article, the contributor of the industrial waste
shall be required to make payment of a charge to cover the cost of handling and
treating the wastes. As permitted by this article, if the city accepts the
waste, the city and the industrial concern contributing the waste shall enter
into an arrangement or agreement whereby the city will accept the waste and the
industrial concern will make payment therefor by one of the methods set forth
in subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   Prepayment Of Costs: If the volume or character of the waste to be
accepted by the city is such that wastewater collection, pumping, handling,
treating, or disposal facilities of the city must be improved, expanded,
enlarged, or added to in order to take care of such waste, or where an
industrial user will contribute thirty percent (30%) or more of the total
volume or strength of the waste load to be treated, then the authority shall
enter into an agreement for prepayment from the contributor in accordance with
current federal requirements.
   C.   Added Costs: Added costs to the city shall include:
      1.   Amortization of all capital outlay for handling and treating the
waste, including new capital outlay and the proportionate part of the value of
the existing system used in handling and treating the waste. The amortization
shall be completed in a thirty (30) year period and payments shall include all
debt service costs.
      2.   All operation and maintenance costs including salaries and wages,
power costs, costs of chemicals and supplies, proper allowances for
maintenance, depreciation, overhead and office expense.
   D.   Calculation Of Industrial Charge, Formula; Billing: If the volume or
character of the waste to be accepted by the city is such that it will not
overload the sewage collection, pumping, handling, treating, or disposal
facilities of the city, then prior to such acceptance, the city and industrial
concern shall enter into an agreement whereby the industrial concern shall make
payment of an industrial waste charge to be determined as set forth below. The
industrial charge shall be calculated by the following formula:
      Ci = jVi +    Vi
         1,000   / Y (BOD-200) + Z (SS-200) /
   This formula is explained in attachment to ordinance 532, adopted herein by
reference:
      1.   BOD = 5 day BOD in mg/l and SS = suspended solids in mg/l, as
defined elsewhere, and shall be determined from a twenty four (24) hour
composite sample. The determination of flow, BOD, and suspended solids shall be
made by an independent firm or laboratory selected by the city. The time of
selection of the sample shall be at the sole discretion of the city, but at
least on an annual basis, to adjust the industrial charge to reflect the
current costs of wastewater treatment. The applicable surcharge determined by
such test shall be retroactive for two (2) billing periods and shall continue
for six (6) billing periods unless subsequent tests determine that the
surcharge should be further increased.
      2.   The basis for determining the surcharge shall be reviewed annually,
and shall be adjusted to reflect any increase or decrease in wastewater
treatment costs based on the previous year's experience.
      3.   Billing shall be by the month and shall be shown as a separate item
on the regular bill for water and sewer charges, and shall be paid monthly in
accordance with existing practices. (2000 Code § 17-329)
17-3B-10: PERMIT FOR DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall deposit or discharge any industrial
waste into any sanitary sewer which leads to any of the city treatment plants,
or deposit or discharge any waste stipulated in this article without first
obtaining a permit therefor in accordance with regulations as set forth by the
Oklahoma department of environmental quality. (2000 Code § 17-330; amd. Ord.
1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
   B.   Conditions For Issuance Of Permit: Permits granted after the effective
date hereof will be issued only after the following conditions are met:
      1.   New Dischargers:
         a.   Formal application is submitted on a form issued by the approving
authority as provided in attachment 2 to ordinance 532, incorporated herein by
reference.
         b.   Where applicable, pretreatment facilities and/or flow regulating
devices approved by the approving authority have been installed.
         c.   Estimated amount and strength of any wastes have been agreed upon
by both parties. When a discharger discharges twenty thousand (20,000) gallons
or more daily, strength shall be based on actual samples from the point or
points of discharge.
         d.   Agreement forms have been completed by the discharger agreeing to
payment of any surcharges as required, and/or agreeing to the installation of
pretreatment facilities, and operation and maintenance of any pretreatment
facilities where applicable.
         e.   All new dischargers shall provide a sampling point subject to
approval of the approving authority.
      2.   Existing Dischargers:
         a.   Formal application is submitted on a form issued by the approving
authority within one hundred twenty (120) days after the effective date hereof
as provided in attachment 2 to ordinance 532, incorporated herein by reference.
         b.   Where applicable, plans and specifications for pretreatment
facilities have been approved by the approving authority.
         c.   Estimated amount and strength of any wastes have been agreed upon
by both parties. When a discharger discharges twenty thousand (20,000) gallons
or more daily, strength shall be based on actual samples from the point or
points of discharge. (2000 Code § 17-330)
         d.   Agreement forms have been completed by the discharger agreeing to
payment of any surcharges as required and/or agreeing to the installation of
pretreatment facilities, and operation and maintenance of any pretreatment
facilities where applicable. (2000 Code § 17-330; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008,
eff. 5-8-2008)
17-3B-11: PENALTY FOR DAMAGE:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously, wilfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct. (2000 Code § 17-331)
17-3B-12: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Right Of Entry; Authority Restricted: The director of public works and
other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this article. The director of public works or his designated
representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes including
metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers, waterways, or facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   Liability Of City And Company: While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in this article, the director of public works or
duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises, established by the company, and the company shall be held
harmless for injury or death of the city employees; and the city shall
indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees
and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and/or sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in this article.
   C.   Entering Property Through Easements: The director of public works and
other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which
the city holds duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited
to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of
any portion of the sewage system lying within the easement. All entry and
subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be done in full accordance with
the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property
involved. (2000 Code § 17-332; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
17-3B-13: AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE:
   In the following situations, the city shall retain the right to terminate
water and wastewater disposal service and immediately disconnect an industrial
customer from the system:
   A.   Where acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment processes
are released to the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or
interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater.
   B.   When the customer discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in
violation of the permit issued by the approving authority.
   C.   Where any governmental agency informs the city that the effluent from
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to
a watercourse, and it is found that a customer is delivering wastewater to the
city system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment that is
not provided by the city as normal domestic treatment. In this instance, the
city shall immediately supply the customer with the governmental agency's
report and provide the customer with all pertinent information. The customer's
water and wastewater lines will then be disconnected until such time as he has
provided additional pretreatment facilities designed to remove the
objectionable characteristics from his industrial water.
   D.   Where the owner delivers his wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable
rate in sufficient quantity that it causes an imbalance in the wastewater
treatment system. (2000 Code § 17-333)
17-3B-14: PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Remedial Action: Any person found to be violating
any provision of this article shall be served by the city with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Continuing Violation; Penalty: Any person who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided for in this article shall be deemed
guilty of a violation thereof and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in section 1-1-8 of this code for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Liability For Damages: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
   D.   Discontinuance Of Service: Failure to pay monthly bills for water or
sanitary sewer services when due or failure to pay the established sewer
charges for industrial waste when due, or repeated discharge of prohibited
waste to the sanitary sewer shall result in disconnection of any and all
services to the water and/or sanitary sewer lines of the city. The same
penalties and charges now or hereafter provided for by the ordinances of the
city for failure to pay the bill for water and/or sanitary sewer service when
due shall be applicable in like manner in case of failure to pay the
established charge for industrial waste discharged to the sanitary sewer mains
as established in this article. (2000 Code § 17-334)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
17-4-1: Definitions
17-4-2: Enforcement
17-4-3: Compulsory Use Of System
17-4-4: Refuse Collection Rates; Schedules
17-4-5: Refuse Collection; License Required
17-4-6: Accumulation Unlawful
17-4-7: Container Requirements
17-4-8: Commercial Refuse Collections; Containers; Fees
17-4-9: Mobile Containers Provided By City; Regulations
17-4-10: Licensing And Contracting Authority
17-4-11: Violation; Penalty
17-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall
have the meanings herein ascribed to them:
   COLLECTOR: The person holding a license or contract with the city and
authorized to collect, handle, transport and dispose of refuse and wastes.
   GARBAGE: Includes all putrescible waste, except sewage and body waste.
   OWNER AND OCCUPANT: Whenever herein used, may be used interchangeably and
such terms mean every person in possession, charge or in control of any
dwelling, flat, rooming house or any eating place, shop, place of business,
manufacturing or business establishment where garbage or other refuse is
created or accumulated.
   REFUSE: Solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH: Refuse other than garbage.
   WASTE: Unwanted solid, liquid or gaseous materials. (2000 Code § 17-401)
17-4-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   The chief of police or his designee as may be appointed by the mayor and
council shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter. (2000 Code § 17-402; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008)
17-4-3: COMPULSORY USE OF SYSTEM:
   Every owner and occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of the
city must use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided and
shall deposit or cause to be deposited in accordance with this chapter all
rubbish and garbage that is of such nature that it is perishable, or may
decompose or may be scattered by wind or otherwise, which is accumulated on
such premises. (2000 Code § 17-403)
17-4-4: REFUSE COLLECTION RATES; SCHEDULES:
   The city council shall from time to time by ordinance or resolution set or
amend the fees and charges for refuse collection service by customers and the
time and schedule for collection. A copy of the current fees or charges and
schedule shall be kept on file in the city clerk's office. Fees and charges
shall be billed with the water statements and paid through the water department
office. (2000 Code § 17-404)
17-4-5: REFUSE COLLECTION; LICENSE REQUIRED:
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of collecting,
transporting, hauling or conveying any refuse over the streets or alleys of the
city or to dump or dispose of the same, unless and until such person is
licensed therefor or has a contract therefor as an authorized representative of
the city or has the direct consent and permission of the mayor or city health
officer. (2000 Code § 17-405)
17-4-6: ACCUMULATION UNLAWFUL:
   It is unlawful for any person to permit or to suffer to accumulate in or
about any yard, lot, place or premises, or upon any street, alley or sidewalk
adjacent to such lot, yard, place or premises, owned or occupied by such
person, any garbage or refuse. (2000 Code § 17-406)
17-4-7: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Portable Containers Required: It shall be the duty of every owner or
occupant of any place where garbage or rubbish is created or accumulated to at
all times keep or cause to be kept portable containers as provided by the City
or its designated collector for the deposit therein of rubbish and garbage and,
except as otherwise provided, to deposit or cause to be deposited all rubbish
and garbage therein.
   B.   Sanitation; Placement Of Containers:
      1.   Such containers shall be kept in a sanitary condition, with the
inside and outside thereof washed at such time as to keep the same free and
clean of all accumulated grease and decomposing material and so that no odor
nuisance shall exist.
      2.   All garbage or refuse containers shall be placed in a place
accessible to the collector.
   C.   Business Establishments: All mercantile houses, commercial houses and
public places of business shall be provided by the City or its designated
collector with containers in which the mercantile house, commercial houses or
public places of business within the City shall deposit all trash, waste
material or garbage to be picked up by the Garbage Department of the City or
its designated collector. The capacity and dimensions or size of the containers
for the deposit of the garbage by the owner or operator of the business, either
mercantile, commercial or public, shall be determined by the Director of Public
Works or his designee.
   D.   Unauthorized Removal or Relocation: No person shall remove or relocate
a refuse container of any size or type provided by the City or its designated
collector unless permission for removal or relocation is duly authorized by
proper authority. Owners or occupants shall report any container that has been
removed from the assigned premises on the next business day following discovery
of said missing container, or as soon as practicable.
   E.   Violation. Any person who knowingly or maliciously removes or relocates
a refuse container in violation of these provisions shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished in accordance as provided in Section
1-1-8 of this Code. Said violator may also be assessed the cost of repairing or
replacing said container as may be applicable.
   F.   Enforcement: Notwithstanding the enforcement provisions set forth in
Section
17-4-2 of this Code, any code enforcement official employed by the City is
vested with the authority to enforce any provision of this chapter as set forth
herein. (2000 Code § 17-407; amd. Ord. 1081, 4-8-2008, eff. 5-8-2008; Ord.
1271, 8-9-2022)
17-4-8: COMMERCIAL REFUSE COLLECTIONS; CONTAINERS; FEES:
   A.   Garbage Collection Rates:
      1.   For the purpose of defraying the expense of the collection of
garbage and the removal of garbage, trash and debris from the various
commercial and business establishments with the city, the utilities office of
the city is hereby authorized and directed to collect from each owner or
occupant of each business or commercial establishment as the case may be within
the city the following fees and charges per month:
COMMERCIAL
 
Container Size              1x      2x      3x      4x      5x      6x
                            Weekly  Weekly  Weekly  Weekly  Weekly  Weekly
300 gallon (downtown1 only)               $103.00                
300 gallon                  $41.20  $56.65  $135.96 $164.80 $226.60 $323.42
2 yard                      $56.65  $101.97 $147.29 $181.28 $226.60 $339.90
4 yard                      $96.82  $130.81 $181.28 $244.11 $305.91 $396.55
6 yard                      $113.30 $175.10 $244.11 $300.76 $357.41 $475.86
8 yard                      $142.00 $206.00 $257.50 $319.30 $386.25 $478.95
 
Note:
   1.    Downtown is defined as:
      East Alley, beginning at Osage Street, North to Seminole Avenue, running
between Fourth Street and Main Street.
      Middle Alley, beginning at Osage Street, North to Seminole Avenue, and
running between Main and Second Streets.
      West Alley, beginning at Osage Street, North to Seminole Avenue, running
between Second Street and Milt Phillips Avenue.
ROLL-OFF SERVICES
Open Top Roll Off Price/Haul
(Up to 30 days)
Open Top Roll Off         Price/Haul
(Up to 30 days)
Roll off:
10 cubic yards            $334.18
20 cubic yards            $428.87
30 cubic yards            $509.85
40 cubic yards            $566.50
Sludge-20 cubic yard      $436.72
35 cubic yard (Compactor) $478.95
 
Note:
   1.    All roll-offs and compactors per pull rates include up to 6 tons of
refuse. Any weight over 6 tons will be charged an additional $36.05 per ton.
   2.   The minimum and maximum fee or charge to be made and assessed each
owner or occupant thereof shall be fixed and set by the City Council according
to the amount of garbage, trash and debris collected on an average each month
for each individual premises or establishment as set out herein.
   B.   Business Establishments:
      1.   All containers shall be placed in a convenient and suitable place
holder for hydraulic lift equipment to be utilized during the waste collection
process. Each box or receptacle shall be equipped with approved top or lid and
approved lifting attachment.
      2.   Due to the weight and disposition of the commercial waste trucks, as
well as the frequency of pick-ups at the same location, the customer shall be
responsible for maintaining the driving surface and roadway base on their
property.
(Ord. 1224, 8-14-2018, eff. 8-14-2018; amd. Ord. 1269, 8-14-2022; Ord. 1290, 6-
13-2023; Ord. 1301, 5-14-2024)
17-4-9: MOBILE CONTAINERS PROVIDED BY CITY; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Rates And Charges:
      1.   For the purpose of defraying the expense of the collection of the
garbage and the removal of trash as in this section provided for, the Utility
Office is hereby authorized and directed to collect from the owner or occupant
of any premises in the City, the following assessment per month as may be
applicable:
         a.   A charge of seventeen dollars ninety cents ($17.90) for
residential curb service (per container).
         b.   A charge of twenty-one dollars and sixty-five cents ($21.65) for
each 95-gallon commercial curb service container.
         c.   A charge of one dollar and forty cents ($1.40) for residential
curbside bulk waste pickup as well as free landfill access. The bulk waste
pickup is the second full week of each month.
      2.   Garbage fees for multi-unit family dwellings on a master meter shall
be computed as follows:
   By each unit of a multi-family dwelling being charged under the schedule
listed in subsection A1 of this section, with the following exception:
   Eighty percent (80%) of the total number of units in the multi-family
dwelling where the occupancy has a tendency to substantially fluctuate shall be
used to arrive at a total billing. On master meters for multi- unit family
dwelling units where the occupancy does not have a tendency to substantially
fluctuate, the total of units shall be used to arrive at a total bill. "Multi-
unit family dwelling" shall be defined as including, but not limited to,
apartment complexes, triplexes, duplexes, rental homes and mobile home parks.
      3.   The rates specified herein are based on once a week collection.
   B.   Guidelines For Handling And Use Of Containers: It being the further
purpose of this section to set City guidelines for the use of, responsibility,
and handling of mobile garbage containers, the following shall apply:
      1.   Definitions: As used herein, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
   CARRYOUT SERVICE: Shall refer to a special category of service by the City
for qualified persons who are physically unable to move the mobile containers
to curbside.
   CURBSIDE SERVICE: Shall refer to pick up service provided by the City at the
curb or within the public street right-of-way.
   MOBILE CONTAINERS: Shall refer to any residential garbage container provided
by or approved by the City, including, but not limited to, "poly-karts".
      2.   Provided By City: The City shall provide one mobile container to
each residence on designated container routes. Containers are the property of
the City/contractor and shall remain at the assigned location regardless of
changes in ownership or occupancy of said residence.
      3.   Commercial Containers In Residential Areas: Commercial containers
are prohibited in residential areas except for roll- off service.
      4.   Curbside Service: In areas where mobile containers are provided by
the City, garbage service shall be curbside service only. It shall be the
responsibility of the resident to place the mobile container near the curb on
the day designated for pick up. Resident shall remove the container from
curbside on the same day.
      5.   Carryout Service: Carryout service shall be provided to residents
who are physically unable to place containers at curbside. This service will be
provided by City employees at no additional fee. The City reserves the right to
require a doctor's certificate as proof of resident's inability to place the
mobile container at curbside.
      6.   Additional Bags Of Garbage: In areas where mobile containers are
provided by the City, residents shall use those containers as their first means
of disposing of garbage. Additional garbage may be placed in plastic bags of
sufficient thickness to permit lifting and handling without breakage. Pick up
service will be limited to the mobile container and three (3) plastic bags
excepting as otherwise provided in this section.
      7.   Damaged Containers:
         a.   Mobile containers that are damaged, destroyed, or stolen shall be
repaired or replaced by the City at the expense of the resident or owner of the
residence.
         b.   Mobile containers that are damaged through normal and reasonable
usage will be repaired by the City at the City's expense.
      8.   Authorized Use By Businesses: Businesses collected on designated
mobile container routes shall not be provided mobile containers, unless usage
is authorized by the Director of Public Works and approved by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1224, 8-14-2018, eff. 8-14-2018; amd. Ord. 1290, 6-13-2023; Ord. 1301, 5-
14-2024)
17-4-10: LICENSING AND CONTRACTING AUTHORITY:
   The Mayor and Council shall have sole authority to license or contract for
the performance of all services pertaining to refuse collection and disposal.
All rules, regulations, and conduct of operations and all fees as provided for
in this chapter shall be as determined and prescribed by the Mayor and Council.
(2000 Code § 17-410)
17-4-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is a misdemeanor and any
person found guilty thereof shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of
this Code. (2000 Code § 17-411)
CHAPTER 5
FIBER OPTIC AND COMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE
SECTION:
17-5-1: Scope And Exceptions
17-5-2: Underground Placement Required
17-5-3: Design And Construction Standards
17-5-4: Obstruction Of Rights-Of-Way
17-5-5: GIS Location Requirement; Access
17-5-6: Construction Costs
17-5-7: Permitting Process
17-5-8: Right-Of-Way Maintenance
17-5-9: Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities
17-5-10: Variance Process
17-5-11: Penalty
17-5-1: SCOPE AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   It is found and determined by the City that the general public
necessity, convenience, health, safety, and welfare require that all new fiber
optic cable and/or other telecommunication networks providing broadband
internet services be constructed and maintained in an orderly manner within the
municipal boundaries in accordance with the requirements specified in this
chapter.
   B.   This chapter shall apply to all entities who own, operate or utilize
fiber optic cable networks or other communication facilities primarily utilized
for internet service within easements and public rights-of-way in the corporate
limits of the City of Seminole.
   C.   The chapter specifically excludes all telecommunication service
providers who currently own, operate or provide internet service within the
within easements and public rights-of-way in the corporate limits of the City
of Seminole and have been granted a non-exclusive franchise agreement with said
municipality.
   D.   Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the following terms have the
meanings ascribed below:
 
                             Any fiber optic cable or other cable, wire or
                             lines designed for primarily for providing
FACILITIES:                  internet service, together with conductors,
                             switches, transformers, regulating devices and
                             other related equipment associated with the
                             provision of broadband internet services.
FIBER OPTIC CABLE:           A minimum count fiber cable bundle required to
                             provide ultrahigh speed broadband services
                             The minimum diameter of conduit used to enclose or
                             carry fiber optic cable or other wires or lines
                             and attendant parts and accessories buried
                             alongside a roadway or surface mounted on bridges,
FIBER OPTIC NETWORK CONDUIT: overpasses and other facilities where below-ground
                             placement is impossible or impractical, in
                             accordance with emerging industry standards or as
                             determined by the Director of Public Works or
                             authorized designee. (Ord. 1268, 6-14-2022)
 
17-5-2: UNDERGROUND PLACEMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Unless specifically authorized by the City, all new fiber optic or
other cable, wire or line construction within the City limits shall be
installed and placed in conduit underground. The City may grant exceptions on a
case-by-case basis when underground installation is not practical. The
placement of above ground pedestals, meter bases and related equipment shall be
permitted only as specifically set forth in approved permits and only at the
direction of the City with respect to an acceptable location for such
facilities.
   B.   Service connections are facilities extending from a distribution system
and terminating on private property to serve a customer or subscriber. Service
connections may be above ground or below ground as designated by the owner of
the real property to be served. All new service connections installed below
ground must be placed in conduit.
   C.   Nothing herein shall require any existing above ground equipment or
facilities to be relocated rearranged or modified to be placed underground
However, service providers are encouraged to bury any existing communication
facilities should any relocation or modification be necessitated due to any
renovation, repair, or upgrade. (Ord. 1268, 6-14-2022)
17-5-3: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   All cable, wire, lines, conductors, switches, transformers, regulating
devices and other related equipment shall be installed to meet or exceed
specifications of emerging industry standards for provision of ultra-speed
broadband service. At a minimum, design, construction and equipment must
satisfy applicable national, state, and local laws and regulations. All
structures housing devices shall be designed in accordance with the provisions
of the International Building Code and municipal code provisions.
   B.   All applicable entities who are responsible for installing, operating
and maintaining the network infrastructure shall observe compliance with all
applicable regulations of the City, which may be amended from time to time, and
in such manner that its operations will not interfere with any installations of
the City or of a public utility serving the City.
   C.   Construction operations shall consist of, and employ, the highest
degree of care as is commensurate with the practical operation of its business
and shall install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for
preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries or
nuisances to the public, as well as result in the least amount of damage and
disruption to the rights-of-ways.
   D.   The City reserves the right to require the use of "trenchless
technology" which includes directional drilling or directional boring for any
portion of construction or maintenance projects which lie beneath any paved or
improved portion of any roadway, right-of-way or other specified area. City
further may require trenchless technology in other locations, where
circumstances prevent or make open-cut methods impractical. (Ord. 1268, 6-14-
2022)
17-5-4: OBSTRUCTIONS OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   Except in the case of an emergency, or with the approval of the City,
no obstruction or excavation easements or public rights-of-way may be performed
when circumstances prohibit a safe environment or when conditions are
unreasonable for such work.
   B.   Rights-of-way shall not be obstructed so as to interfere with the
natural, free and clear passage of water through the gutters, drains, ditches
or other waterways. Streets and thoroughfares shall be cleared of any drill
mud, debris and other obstructions that accumulate as a result of the
construction activities, and construction personnel will not permit its
activities to create a hazard to any persons or property. (Ord. 1268, 6-14-
2022)
17-5-5: GlS LOCATION REQUIREMENT; ACCESS:
   A.   Whenever fiber optic network conduit and/or fiber optic cable
installed, it shall be required for standard GIS locating devices or technology
be installed to identify and locate said buried cable, wire, lines and other
related equipment throughout the provider's network infrastructure unless it
can be demonstrated to the reasonable satisfaction of the City that such
requirement is not technologically feasible or reasonably practicable or such
provider is exempt or otherwise not required to comply by operation of law.
   B.   All location data, as well as a comprehensive map designating the
location of all above ground and below ground conduit and equipment shall be
provided to the City. (Ord. 1268, 6-14-2022)
17-5-6: CONSTRUCTION COSTS:
The cost of constructing and installing said facilities shall be borne by the
serving utilities, the owners of the real property to be served, or others
requesting placement of underground facilities in accordance with the
applicable rules, regulations, and policies of the respective utilities
furnishing such service. (Ord. 1268, 6-14-2022)
17-5-7: PERMITTING PROCESS:
   A.   Prior to the installation of any fiber optic cable and/or communication
facilities, the installer must submit plans describing the facilities to be
installed and the location of the installation to the Department of Public
Works. Upon review and approval, City will issue a permit upon application
authorizing the installation of the facilities to proceed. No facilities shall
be installed without the prior approval of the Director of Public Works or
authorized designee. All required permit fees and/or other required costs shall
be paid upon submitting said application.
   B.   All construction or operations within the City shall be duly authorized
to do business in Oklahoma and shall have received any necessary certificate of
public convenience and necessity or other required authorization from the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) or other authorized regulatory body,
and all requisite State and City licensing for the work to be performed.
   C.   The Director of Public Works or Code Enforcement Office and other
designated personnel in the service of the municipal may inspect any location
or premises at any reasonable times for purpose of inspection and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this code. City may require the responsible
party to alter or modify its facilities to serve the needs and objectives of
the City or for the public good.
   D.   The licensee shall secure and maintain required liability insurance
policies specified by the City. However, a Licensee may declare itself as self-
insured. If so, the licensee shall provide the City evidence sufficient to
demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage for the
limit required. (Ord. 1268, 6-14-2022)
17-5-8: RIGHT-OF-WAY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Surface maintenance within dedicated public right-of-ways encompassing
said facilities shall be the responsibility of the City, which shall include
mowing, trimming, vegetation and erosion control. The City shall be responsible
to exercise reasonable and sufficient maintenance in a manner to ensure the
safe and efficient operation of said network infrastructure. The City shall use
due care to ensure that no damage, beyond reasonable wear and tear, is caused
to said maintained areas or Licensee's equipment. Nothing shall require the
City to provide maintenance of items typically reserved for overhead electric
utilities, such as tree trimming, pruning or removal.
   B.   All service providers shall be responsible for paying a right-of-way
maintenance fee on an annual basis to reimburse the City for costs associated
with maintaining the property subject to this chapter. Said fee rate shall be
established by the City as authorized by
17-1-5 of the Code of Ordinances. In no event shall said fee exceed five
percent (5%) of gross revenues collected by a Licensee by customers located
within the municipality during each calendar year of operation. (Ord. 1268, 6-
14-2022)
17-5-9: REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the City, the
Licensee shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of any unauthorized
facilities or appurtenances from the easements and public rights-of-way. A
facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of a License Agreement or permit
obtained by the Licensee, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or permit;
      3.   If the facility was constructed, installed or maintained in
violation of any franchise or licensing agreement or established standards
required herein; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by any permit obtained by the Licensee.
   B.   If a Licensee installs any facilities within any applicable location
without a permit for said location, the Licensee agrees to pay an
administrative penalty to the City in the sum of One Thousand Dollars
($1,000.00) per month due on the first day of each month regardless of the
amount of time the Licensee's facilities remain in the non-permitted area
during that month until removed or permission is acquired. Payment of the
penalty shall not authorize the presence of any facilities in the specific site
without a permit. No action or inaction by the City with respect to
unauthorized use of any public right-of-way shall be deemed a ratification or
an unauthorized use. (Ord. 1268, 6-14-2022)
17-5-10: VARIANCE PROCESS:
Any entity affected by this chapter may apply to the City Council for a
variance from the provisions of this chapter. The Council may, in its sole
discretion, grant relief from the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 1268, 6-14-2022)
17-5-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, entity or corporation violating any provision of this
Ordinance, as it exists or may be amended, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor be punished as provided in section 11-8 of this Code. Each
continuing day's violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalties
provided herein shall not preclude the City from initiating administrative or
civil action to enjoin the violation. The City retains all legal rights and
remedies available to it pursuant to local, state and federal law. (Ord. 1268,
6-14-2022)
