SENTINEL, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions and notes
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to statutes
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
Passage of Ordinances
   
10.30   Ordinances
   
10.31   Adoption by reference
   
10.32   Compilation
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   City ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
   General powers, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This code may be cited as the “Sentinel Town Code” or other properly
identifying description. When a change or changes have been prepared and
inserted in the code as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may be
added to the citation or title when referring to the code as amended.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108 and 14-
109
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code, for the convenience of persons
using the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the town.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Washita, Oklahoma.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the State Constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the town, and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies, or departments by title only, such as “Clerk/Treasurer,”
“Town Clerk/Treasurer,” “Town Attorney,” “Fire Chief,” “Police Chief,” and the
like, they shall mean the officers, agencies, or departments of the town.
      PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships, and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates, and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
      STREET. Street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, highway,
court, place, square, curb, or any other public way in the town which is
dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN. The Town of Sentinel, Oklahoma.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the town include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the town include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Board of
Trustees after this code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are
severable from the invalid parts remain in effect.
   (B)   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed hereinafter is
invalid in one or more of its applications, the part remains in effect in all
valid applications which are severable from the invalid applications.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state shall mean the statutes as they are
now or as they may be amended. A reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a
certain year also means the comparable provision when included in future
codifications.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted but not included
in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes into effect.
Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or amended by the
adoption of the code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution, or ordinance of the
Board of Trustees, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, as well as any amendments, are listed following
the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (11 O.S. § 4-102) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see 51
O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the prior code section number
shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, § 12-2).”
PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES
§ 10.30 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the Town Board of
Trustees shall be: “Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Sentinel, Oklahoma,” and of all ordinances proposed by the voters under their
power of initiative, “Be it ordained by the people of the Town of Sentinel,
Oklahoma.”
   (B)   All proposed ordinances shall be considered at a public meeting of the
Town Board. A vote of a majority of all the Trustees shall be required for
final passage.
   (C)   The Mayor shall have no power to veto any ordinance.
   (D)   Every ordinance, except those for appropriation or monies, shall be
published by title or in full within 15 days after its passage, in a newspaper
of general circulation within the town or county, or posted in ten public
places within the town.
   (E)   Every ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall become effective
30 days after its final passage unless it specifies a later date.
   (F)   (1)   An EMERGENCY ORDINANCE is an ordinance which, in the judgment of
the Town Board of Trustees, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the
peace, health, or safety and which should become effective prior to the time
when a regular ordinance would become effective. Every such ordinance shall
contain, as a part of its title, the words “and declaring an emergency” and, in
a separate section (herein called the emergency section), shall declare the
emergency.
      (2)   The Town Board of Trustees shall vote on the emergency section
separately and must adopt the emergency section by a vote of at least three-
fourths of all the members of said Town Board. An emergency ordinance shall
take effect upon final passage, unless it specifies a later date.
(Prior Code, § 1-188)
§ 10.31 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Town Board of Trustees, by ordinance, may adopt by reference codes,
ordinances, and standards relating to building, plumbing, electrical
installations, and other matters which it has the power to regulate. Such a
code, ordinance, or standard so adopted need not be enrolled in those code of
ordinances; provided, that one copy is filed and kept in the office of the Town
Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-189)
§ 10.32 COMPILATION.
   (A)   Every ten years, the town shall compile and publish its effective
penal ordinances in a permanent form.
   (B)   One copy of the compilation of ordinances shall be deposited by the
town in the County Law Library.
   (C)   Every two years, the town shall publish supplements to its compiled
penal ordinances, and no ordinance shall be enforced if it is not reflected in
such compilation or supplement, if such ordinance was adopted prior to the
latest compilation or supplement.
   (D)   When the town has compiled and published its ordinances, the Town
Board of Trustees shall adopt a resolution notifying the public of such
compilation and cause certified copies of the resolution to be filed in the
office of the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-190)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code of ordinances or in any ordinance of the town an
act is prohibited, is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense, or
misdemeanor, or wherever in said code of ordinances the doing of any act is
required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code of ordinances or of any such ordinance shall be punished in
accordance with the appropriate following provisions.
      (1)   If the Judge of the Municipal Court is not a licensed attorney, the
trial shall be to the court, and the court shall not impose a fine which
exceeds $50 plus costs, and may not order the defendant imprisoned, except for
the nonpayment of fines or costs.
      (2)   If the Judge of the Municipal Court is a licensed attorney, said
fine may not exceed $200 plus costs; provided however, that whenever a specific
penalty is provided for in this code, said penalty which exceeds $200 or
provides for imprisonment of the defendant, then the Judge, pursuant to a jury
trial, unless waived, may order the defendant to pay a fine not to exceed $500
and may order the defendant imprisoned for any amount of time not to exceed 30
days.
   (B)   Each day on which any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 9-20)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   MUNICIPAL OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
33.   CIVIL DEFENSE
      
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Incorporation
   
30.02   Form of government
   
30.03   General powers of municipality
Town Board of Trustees
   
30.15   Election and terms of Trustees and officers
   
30.16   Powers of the Town Board of Trustees
   
30.17   Compensation of the Town Board of Trustees
   
30.18   Municipal policy and business
   
30.19   Town Board meetings
   
30.20   Removal of Trustees; vacancies
   
30.21   Supervisory designation of Trustees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 INCORPORATION.
   (A)   The town, within the corporate limits as now established or as
hereafter may be established, shall continue to be a municipal body politic and
corporate in perpetuity under the name of the “Town of Sentinel, Oklahoma.”
   (B)   It shall succeed to and possess all the property, rights, privileges,
franchises, powers, and immunities now belonging to the corporation known as
the Town of Sentinel, Oklahoma and shall be liable for all debts and other
obligations for which the corporation is now legally bound.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
§ 30.02 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The municipal government provided for the town shall be the “Town Board of
Trustees” form of government. All powers of the municipality shall be exercised
in the manner prescribed by this code of ordinances, future ordinances, or
state law; provided, that this code and all future ordinances are not repugnant
to the State Constitution and laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
§ 30.03 GENERAL POWERS OF MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   The town shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges,
franchises, and immunities specifically granted to municipalities, or not
prohibited by the State Constitution and laws and all the implied powers
necessary to carry into execution all the powers granted.
   (B)   The town shall have the power to adopt a corporate seal and alter the
same, to sue and be sued, to make contracts and to grant, extend, and renew
franchises. It shall have the power to issue bonds in accordance with the State
Constitution and laws. It shall have the power, in accordance with the State
Constitution and laws, to accept and administer federal and state grants-in-
aid. It shall have the power to ordain and enforce local legislation,
consistent with the State Constitution and laws, for the proper organization
and functioning of municipal government, for the preservation and enforcement
of good government and order, for the protection of health, life, peace,
safety, morals, and property, for the promotion of the common welfare.
   (C)   The enumeration of particular powers of this code of ordinances shall
not be deemed to be exclusive or limiting. In addition to the powers enumerated
herein or implied hereby, the town shall have all powers which, under the State
Constitution and laws, it would be competent for this code of ordinances
specifically to enumerate.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.15 ELECTION AND TERMS OF TRUSTEES AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall consist and be composed of five
members who shall be nominated from wards or at large and elected at large. The
Trustees who are nominated from wards shall be actual residents of their
respective wards. Removal of a Trustee from the ward for which he or she was
elected shall not cause a vacancy in the office of that Trustee.
   (B)   At the general election on the first Tuesday in April, 2015, the
Trustees from Wards 1, 3, and 5 shall be elected for term of four years; at the
general election on the first Tuesday in April, 2017, the Trustee from Ward 2
and 4 for terms of four years.
(Prior Code, § 1-10)
§ 30.16 POWERS OF THE TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code of ordinances, all powers of the
municipality, including the determination of matters of policy, shall be vested
in the Town Board of Trustees. Said Town Board shall have and may utilize all
of the powers granted to the municipality and said Town Board by the State
Constitution and laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-11)
§ 30.17 COMPENSATION OF THE TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Compensation of the Town Board of Trustees and other elected officials shall
be fixed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-12)
§ 30.18 MUNICIPAL POLICY AND BUSINESS.
   (A)   The Town Board shall conduct all business of the municipality, set
policy for the efficient administration of municipal government,
administratively supervise all activities of municipal employees, and carry out
their responsibilities, powers, and duties as officers and as a corporate and
politic body within the limits prescribed by the State Constitution and laws
and the code of ordinances of the town.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the municipal government that no person
shall be discriminated against on the grounds of race, creed, color, sex,
religion, national origin, or age in employment or other activities sponsored
directly or indirectly by the town.
   (C)   Every member of the Town Board of Trustees who shall be present when
the opportunity or need arises to vote upon a question shall vote thereon,
unless excused by the unanimous consent of those Town Board of Trustees
present, or unless he or she is directly or indirectly interested in the
question, in which event he or she shall disclose his or her interest to the
Town Board and it shall be made a matter of record.
(Prior Code, § 1-13)
§ 30.19 TOWN BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   Municipal business shall be conducted at regularly scheduled open and
public meetings held in the Town Hall (or another agreed upon place which is
open to the public) on the second Monday of each month or the next following
day which is not a holiday, beginning at 5:30 p.m. An agenda for each regularly
scheduled meeting shall be prepared and publicly posted in the Town Hall (or
other agreed upon place open to the public). The agenda shall contain
sufficient information in order to explain generally the items to be discussed
at the meeting. At a minimum, the following items shall appear on the agenda:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Reading of the minutes;
      (3)   Clerk/Treasurer report;
      (4)   Old business;
      (5)   New business;
      (6)   Public participation; and
      (7)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare a schedule of all meetings
prior to each calendar year and shall post this schedule in the Town Hall prior
to December 15 preceding the calendar year for which the schedule has been
determined.
   (C)   If any change in the date, time, or place of a regularly scheduled
meeting is made, notice of the change shall be given to the Town Clerk/
Treasurer no less than ten days prior to the implementation of such change, and
the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall publicly post a notice of the change.
   (D)   In all meetings of the Town Board of Trustees, the vote of each member
must be publicly cast and recorded.
   (E)   No informal gatherings or any electronic or telephonic communications
among a majority of the Trustees shall be used to decide any action or to take
any vote on any matter.
   (F)   Executive sessions of the Town Board of Trustees will be permitted
only for the purpose of discussing the employment, hiring, appointment,
promotion, demotion, discipline, or resignation of any individual salaried
officer or employee, or for the purpose of confidential communications between
the town and its Attorney concerning a pending investigation, claim, or action.
Any vote or action on any matter discussed in executive session must be taken
in public meeting with the vote of each member publicly cast and recorded. No
executive session of the Town Board of Trustees shall occur except on a vote by
a majority of a quorum of the members present.
   (G)   Special or emergency Town Board meetings may be called by the Mayor,
or by a majority of the Trustees, in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Special meetings shall not be held without public notice being
given at least 48 hours prior to the said meeting. Such public notice of the
date, time, and place of a special meeting shall be given in writing, in
person, or by telephonic or electronic means to the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   At least 24 hours prior to the special meeting, a written public
notice of the special meeting shall be prominently posted in the Town Hall.
Such notice shall include the date, time, place, and agenda for the special
meeting, and only items appearing on the agenda shall be considered at the
meeting. The 24 hours public posting shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays legally declared by the state.
   (H)   In the event of an emergency, an emergency meeting of the Town Board
of Trustees may be held without public notice. Should an emergency meeting be
required, as much advance public notice as is reasonable and possible under the
circumstances shall be made in person or by telephonic or electronic means.
(Prior Code, § 1-14)
§ 30.20 REMOVAL OF TRUSTEES; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor or any Trustee may be removed from office for any cause
specified by applicable state law for the removal of officers, including 22
O.S. §§ 1181 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   Whenever a member of the Town Board of Trustees is absent from more
than one-half of all meetings of said Town Board (regular and special) held
within a period of four consecutive months, he or she shall thereupon
automatically cease to hold office.
   (C)   Except for the Mayor, vacancies in the membership of the Town Board of
Trustees shall be filled by appointment by a majority vote of the remaining
members of the Town Board. The appointment shall expire at the next general
election, when a successor is elected and qualified. Such successor shall serve
the balance of any unexpired term. If a vacancy has not been filled by
appointment within 60 days after it occurs, the Town Board shall call for a
special election, unless such vacancy occurs within 120 days of a general
election.
(Prior Code, § 1-15)
§ 30.21 SUPERVISORY DESIGNATION OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may appoint its own members to supervisory
positions over designated personnel, departments, and/or activities of the
municipality.
   (B)   Such Trustees may be given an appropriate title and shall be, in
effect, a committee of one of the Town Board of Trustees, and is subordinate to
said Town Board.
   (C)   A member of the Town Board shall not receive compensation for any
municipal office or position other than his or her elected office.
(Prior Code, § 1-16)
CHAPTER 31: MUNICIPAL OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Consolidation of town offices
   
31.02   Employee residency requirements
   
31.03   Officers to be bonded
   
31.04   Compensation; change of salaries
   
31.05   Succession in government
   
31.06   Nepotism; compatibility of offices
   
31.07   Town employees
Officers, Employees, and Organizations
   
31.20   Mayor; Acting Mayor
   
31.21   Town Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.22   Police Department; Chief of Police
   
31.23   Municipal Judge; Alternate Judge and Acting Judge
   
31.24   Town Attorney
   
31.25   Fire Chief
   
31.26   Assistant Fire Chief; other officers; new members
   
31.27   Building Inspector
   
31.28   Electrical Inspector
   
31.29   Plumbing Inspector
   
31.30   Utilities Superintendent
   
31.31   Civil Defense Director
   
31.32   Civil Defense Advisory Committee
   
31.33   Park Board
   
31.34   Fair Housing Board created
   
31.35   Municipal Board of Health; Health Officer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CONSOLIDATION OF TOWN OFFICES.
   (A)   The Town Board may combine, merge, or consolidate by ordinance any of
the various offices of town government as it deems necessary and convenient for
the administration of the town government.
   (B)   Such ordinance must be enacted at least 30 days prior to the date of
the next municipal primary election.
   (C)   Any consolidation of elected town offices shall go into effect at the
end of the term of the office to be consolidated or when a vacancy occurs.
(Prior Code, § 1-28)
§ 31.02 EMPLOYEE RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMPLOYEES. All persons working for wages or salary for the town.
   (B)   All employees of the town shall live close enough to the place of
their employment that they would have a response time of no more than ten
minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-46)
§ 31.03 OFFICERS TO BE BONDED.
   (A)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer and each duly elected Town Board member are
hereby designated as persons authorized to sign municipal warrants or municipal
checks and each is required to give bond in the amount of $75,000 for the
faithful performance of their duties.
   (B)   The town policeperson is required to give a bond in the amount of
$2,000 for the faithful performance of those duties.
   (C)   The town dog catcher is required to be give a bond in the amount of
$1,000 for the faithful performance of those duties.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 12-20-2019)
§ 31.04 COMPENSATION; CHANGE OF SALARIES.
   (A)   The basic monthly compensation of the following elected municipal
officers shall be as indicated below: Town Clerk/Treasurer: $220.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may determine or regulate the number and
class of officers and employees and determine or change their compensation, by
motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1-184)
§ 31.05 SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   All ordinances, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this code of
ordinances, shall continue in effect until they are repealed or until they
expire by their own limitations.
   (B)   All officers and employees of the town, under any and all previous
ordinances, shall continue in the offices and employments which they
respectively hold, after this code of ordinances goes into effect.
   (C)   All books, vouchers, monies, and other property belonging to the town
and in charge or possession of any officer of the town shall be delivered to
his or her successor.
(Prior Code, § 1-185)
§ 31.06 NEPOTISM; COMPATIBILITY OF OFFICES.
   (A)   No member of the Town Board of Trustees, nor any other elected or
appointed official or authority of the town, may appoint, or vote for the
appointment of, any person related by affinity or consanguinity within the
third degree to any member of the Town Board, to any office or position of
profit in the municipal government.
   (B)   (1)   The following relatives shall be considered as within the third
degree of consanguinity or affinity: children, grandchildren, great
grandchildren, brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, nephews, nieces, grandparents,
great grandparents, in-laws of the same degree of relationships, step children,
and step parents.
      (2)   A divorce degree shall be deemed to dissolve all relationships
arising from marriage.
   (C)   (1)   Except as may be otherwise provided by ordinance, the same
person may hold more than one office or position in the municipal government.
      (2)   A member of the Town Board, however, shall not receive compensation
for service in any municipal office or position other than his or her elected
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-186) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.07 TOWN EMPLOYEES.
   Employees of the town serve at will of the Town Board and may be removed
from employment at pleasure of the Town Board for the good of the service,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein. Offices shall be removed only in
accordance with applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-187)
OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.20 MAYOR; ACTING MAYOR.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall elect one of its members as Mayor.
The Mayor shall be elected in each odd numbered year, at the first Town Board
meeting held after the Trustees’ terms begin, or as soon thereafter as
practicable.
   (B)   When a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Town Board of
Trustees shall elect another Mayor from among its members to serve for the
duration of unexpired term.
   (C)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Town Board of Trustees
and may call special meetings thereof.
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor shall certify to the correct enrollment of all
ordinances and resolutions passed by the Town Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Mayor shall have all the powers, rights, privileges, duties,
and responsibilities of a Trustee and, as an elected representative of the
citizens of his or her ward, may vote on all matters that come before the Town
Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Mayor shall be recognized as the head of the municipal government
for all ceremonial purposes.
   (F)   During the absence, disability, or suspension of the Mayor, the Town
Board of Trustees shall elect an Acting Mayor from among its members.
   (G)   The Mayor shall perform all other duties prescribed by state law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-25)
§ 31.21 TOWN CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall be an officer of the town and shall
attend all meetings of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Enroll all ordinances and resolutions passed by the Town Board of
Trustees in a book or set of books kept for that purpose;
      (3)   Have custody of documents, records, and archives, as may be
provided for by law or by ordinance and have custody of the town seal;
      (4)   Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents as required by
law or by ordinance;
      (5)   Have such other powers, duties, and functions related to his or her
statutory duties as may be prescribed by law or by ordinance. The person who
serves as Town Clerk/Treasurer may be employed by the town to perform duties
not related to his or her position as Town Clerk/Treasurer. The salary, if any,
for said duties shall be provided for separately by ordinance;
      (6)   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to him or her have been derived and to whom and when any monies
have been paid;
      (7)   Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories as the
Board of Trustees may designate; and
      (8)   Have such other powers, duties, and functions related to his or her
statutory duties as may be prescribed by law or by ordinance. The person who
serves as Town Clerk/Treasurer may be employed by the town to perform duties
not related to his or her position as Town Clerk/Treasurer. The salary, if any,
for said duties shall be provided for separately by ordinance.
   (C)   The books and accounts of the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall be subject at
all times to examination by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-27)
§ 31.22 POLICE DEPARTMENT; CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Police Department for the town, the head of
which shall be the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by
the Town Board of Trustees. His or her term of office shall be two years,
running concurrent with Town Board elections, or until his or her services are
terminated by death, resignation, removal by the Town Board of Trustees, or by
other legal manner.
   (B)   One or more police officers may be appointed by the Chief of Police,
subject to approval and confirmation by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Chief of Police and municipal police officers shall possess the
powers and be subject to the liabilities conferred by law in executing the
orders of the Trustees and enforcing the code of ordinances of the town.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and/or all municipal
police officers to bring to justice all violators of municipal ordinances and
federal and state laws and to turn such violators over to the proper
authorities. The Chief of Police shall serve all warrants, writs, executions,
and other process, properly directed and delivered to him or her.
   (E)   The Chief of Police and each municipal police officer shall be paid
such compensation as the Town Board of Trustees by motion may prescribe.
   (F)   (1)   All personal property other than money or legal tender of the
United States coming in any manner into the possession of any municipal police
officer, which is not known to belong to some person or has not been claimed,
shall be delivered into the charge of the Chief of Police, who shall retain
such property in custody for a period of six months.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall make a permanent, written record of said
property, including the date and circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name
of the person from whom it was taken (or the place it was found) and may sell
such property for cash to the highest bidder, provided that the property is no
longer needed to be held as evidence or for any other purpose connected with
any litigation. The Chief of Police shall record the subsequent disposal
thereof, the date of sale, name and address of the purchaser, and the amount
for which it was sold.
   (G)   The Chief of Police shall file an application in the District Court to
enter an order authorizing him or her to transfer the proceeds of the sale or
the money or legal tender to the Town Clerk/Treasurer for deposit in the
Municipal General Fund. The application shall describe the proceeds, any serial
numbers, the date the proceeds came into his or her possession, and the name of
the owner and his or her address, if known. The failure of anyone to appear to
prove ownership to said proceeds shall result in a court order to deposit the
proceeds in the Municipal General Fund, whereupon the Chief of Police shall
transfer the proceeds to the Town Clerk/Treasurer for deposit.
   (H)   The sale of personal property, money, or legal tender having a fair
market value of more than its face value requires prior authority from the
District Court.
   (I)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dangerous or
deadly weapons, narcotics, or poisonous drugs, explosives, or any property of
any kind or character, which the possession of is prohibited by law. By order
of the trial court, any such property filed as an exhibit or held by the
municipality shall be sold or disposed of pursuant to the conditions prescribed
in such order.
   (J)   If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof
takes and recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount deposited
into the Municipal General Fund shall be returned to the purchaser, upon
verified claim being submitted and approved by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (K)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designated representative, is
authorized to direct that any regularly employed police officer of the town may
provide law enforcement assistance to another municipality in an emergency;
provided, that a request from an official representative of the other
municipality has been received by the town. The Chief of Police shall report to
the Mayor within 24 hours of each such occurrence. The town shall provide
salaries, insurance, and other regular benefits to these officers.
   (L)   The Mayor, or in his or her absence, the Chief of Police of the town
is authorized to request law enforcement assistance from other municipalities
in emergency situations. In such cases, the assisting officers of the other
municipalities shall have the same powers and duties as though employed by the
town. However, salaries, insurance, and other benefits shall not be paid by the
town.
   (M)   In all events, the police officers of the town shall return to their
regular duties when directed to do so by the Town Police Chief or the Police
Chief of the requesting municipality, whichever direction occurs first.
   (N)   When the Town Police Chief directs the assisting police officers of
the other municipalities to return to their regularly scheduled duties in their
own municipalities, those assisting police officers shall cease to have the
powers and duties of police officers regularly employed by the town.
   (O)   The Chief of Police and each police officer shall perform all other
duties prescribed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-29)
§ 31.23 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; ALTERNATE JUDGE AND ACTING JUDGE.
   (A)   The number of Judges shall be determined by the Town Board of
Trustees. Each Judge shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the
Town Board.
   (B)   The Mayor, with the consent of the Town Board, may appoint as Judge:
      (1)   An attorney licensed to practice law in the state, who resides in
the county or an adjacent county;
      (2)   An attorney licensed to practice law in the state who maintains a
permanent office in the town; or
      (3)   Any suitable person residing in the town or within 20 miles of the
boundaries of the town.
   (C)   The Mayor may be designated as Judge of the Municipal Court upon
approval of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   If the Judge of the Municipal Court is not a licensed attorney, the
trial shall be to the court, and the court may not impose a fine of more than
$50 and may not order the defendant imprisoned except for the nonpayment of
fines or costs or both.
   (E)   The official term of the Municipal Judge shall be two years, running
concurrent with Town Board elections, or until his or her services are
terminated by death, resignation, or removal by the Town Board of Trustees for
such cause as is provided for by law for the removal of police officers.
   (F)   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall receive a salary as prescribed
by the Town Board of Trustees, paid in the same manner as the salaries of other
municipal employees.
   (G)   The Municipal Judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the State
Constitution and laws and this code of ordinances, for the proper conduct of
the business of the Municipal Court.
   (H)   The Mayor, with the consent of the Town Board, may appoint an
Alternate Judge of the Municipal Court, possessed of the same qualifications as
the Municipal Judge. His or her appointment shall be for the same term and made
in the same manner as the Municipal Judge. He or she shall sit as Acting Judge
of the Municipal Court if the Municipal Judge is absent from the court or is
unable to act as Municipal Judge in a case.
   (I)   If, at any time, there is no Municipal Judge or Alternate Judge, duly
appointed and qualified, available to sit as Municipal Judge, the Mayor may
appoint some person possessing the qualifications required by this section for
the Municipal Judge, who shall preside as Acting Judge over the Municipal Court
in the disposition of pending matters until such time as a Municipal Judge or
Alternate Judge shall be available.
   (J)   An Alternate Judge or an Acting Judge shall be paid, as prescribed by
the Town Board of Trustees by ordinance, for each day devoted to the
performance of his or her duties, except that, for any month, the total
payments so calculated shall not exceed the salary of the Municipal Judge in
whose stead he or she sits. An Alternate or Acting Judge who sits for an entire
month shall receive the amount specified by the Town Board of Trustees as the
salary of the Municipal Judge in whose stead he or she sits.
   (K)   Judges may be removed for cause by majority vote of all the members of
the Town Board.
   (L)   A vacancy in the office of Municipal Judge shall occur if the
incumbent dies, resigns, ceases to possess the qualifications for the office,
or is removed. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Municipal
Judge, the Mayor, with the consent of the Town Board, shall appoint a successor
to complete the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 1-30)
§ 31.24 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Town Attorney may be appointed by the Town Board of Trustees on a
contractual basis.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall be the prosecuting officer of the Municipal
Court and shall have the power to prosecute for violations of ordinances and to
prosecute and resist appeals and proceedings in error and review.
   (C)   The Town Attorney shall perform such other duties as the Town Board of
Trustees may require; provided, that such duties are included within the scope
of the contractual arrangement.
(Prior Code, § 1-31)
§ 31.25 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Chief of the Fire Department.
The Chief shall be appointed for an indefinite term by the Town Board of
Trustees. His or her services may be terminated by death, resignation, or
removal by said Town Board.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief shall be the head of the Department, subject to the
laws of the state, ordinances of this town, and the rules and regulations
herein adopted.
      (2)   The Chief, subject to the supervision and control of the governing
body, may contract to supply fire protection to owners of individual properties
and shall establish, maintain, and administer an enterprise fund to finance
costs for the operation of the Fire Department, consistent with state laws and
this ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-32)
§ 31.26 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF; OTHER OFFICERS; NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Assistant Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the
Town Board of Trustees. In the absence of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Fire
Chief shall command the Fire Department and be held responsible therefor in all
respects, with the full powers and responsibilities of the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The officers of the Fire Department shall be selected upon their
ability to lead people and their knowledge of firefighting and firefighting
equipment.
   (C)   One member elected by the members of the Fire Department shall be
Secretary/Treasurer. His or her duties shall consist of calling the roll at
each meeting, keeping the minutes of each meeting, and collecting any money due
said Department by the members.
   (D)   All new members shall be on a probation for one year after their
appointment. Upon completion of their probation period, new members must be
approved by the majority of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-33)
§ 31.27 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of the Building Inspector for the
town. The Building Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
The Town Board of Trustees may contract for building inspection services with
another municipality or intergovernmental agency.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall be in good health and shall be physically
capable of performing the duties of his or her office.
   (C)   The powers and duties of the Building Inspector shall be as set forth
in §
151.30.
   (D)   During the temporary absence or disability of the Building Inspector,
the Town Board of Trustees may designate an Acting Building Inspector.
   (E)   The Building Inspector, while in the discharge of his or her official
duty, shall have the authority to enter any building or premises for the
purpose of inspection for compliance with the conditions of the building
permit.
   (F)   The Building Inspector may also serve as the Electrical or Plumbing
Inspector, if so designated by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-34)
§ 31.28 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Electrical Inspector for the
town. The Electrical Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   The Electrical Inspector shall have had experience as an electrician,
shall be of good moral character, and shall be either licensed by the state or
certified by BOCA. The Electrical Inspector may hold other positions in the
municipal government.
   (C)   The Electrical Inspector shall have all of the powers and duties
prescribed by the Electrical Code adopted by this code of ordinances. He or she
shall also ensure that all municipal ordinances and regulations relating to
electrical safety are properly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1-35)
§ 31.29 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Plumbing Inspector for the town.
   (B)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Trustees. The Plumbing Inspector may also hold other positions in the municipal
government.
   (C)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have all of the powers and duties
prescribed by the Plumbing Code adopted by this code of ordinances. He or she
shall also ensure that all municipal ordinances and regulations relating to
water and sanitary plumbing are properly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 1-36)
§ 31.30 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Utilities Superintendent for the
town. The Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   He or she shall have charge of the maintenance and operation of all
municipal utilities and perform such duties in connection therewith as are
required of him or her by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have no power to incur any
expenditures, unless the same shall be authorized and approved by the Town
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-37)
§ 31.31 CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The office of Civil Defense Director is hereby created, to be
appointed by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Civil Defense Director shall be executive head of the Department
of Civil Defense and shall be responsible for carrying out the Civil Defense
Program of the town.
   (C)   The Director of Civil Defense shall have the authority, duty, and
responsibility to:
      (1)   Form an organization to prepare and implement a civil defense
program;
      (2)   Form committees to perfect such an organization;
      (3)   Appoint the Chairperson of such committees;
      (4)   Cooperate with other governmental civil defense agencies; and
      (5)   Formulate plans, gather information, and maintain records for said
Civil Defense Organization.
   (D)   The Director of Civil Defense may be reimbursed for expenses incurred
in the performance of his or her duties; provided such expenses are at the
direction of and approved by the Town Board of Trustees.
   (E)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes the Civil Defense Director, after authorization from the Mayor,
shall have the authority to enforce all regulations relating to civil defense,
for the purpose of protecting the residents of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-38)
§ 31.32 CIVIL DEFENSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Civil Defense Advisory Committee shall consist of the Mayor, who
shall serve as Committee Chairperson, and five members appointed by the Mayor,
with the approval of the Town Board of Trustees. Said members shall serve at
the pleasure of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Civil Defense Advisory Committee shall select from its members a
Vice Chairperson and a Secretary.
   (C)   The Civil Defense Advisory Committee shall hold such meetings as are
directed by the Mayor or the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The function of the Civil Defense Advisory Committee shall be to act
in an advisory capacity to and as needed or requested by the Mayor or the Town
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-39)
§ 31.33 PARK BOARD.
   There is hereby created a Park Board, consisting of the three members of the
Town Board of Trustees, who shall be responsible for the care, management, and
control of all municipal parks and recreation areas. The Park Board may make
such rules and regulations governing its operations as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1-42)
§ 31.34 FAIR HOUSING BOARD CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board for the town to assist in
the enforcement of all municipal fair housing regulations and ordinances.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees shall serve as the Fair Housing Board of
said community.
(Prior Code, § 1-43)
Cross-reference:
   Fair housing regulations, see
Chapter 95
§ 31.35 MUNICIPAL BOARD OF HEALTH; HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall serve, ex officio, as the Municipal
Board of Health and shall adopt and enforce such ordinances, rules, and
regulations as it deems necessary for the protection of the public health.
   (B)   It shall be the general duty of the Municipal Board of Health to
examine and consider all measures necessary for the preservation of the public
health of residents of the town, and to oversee enforcement of all ordinances
and regulations in relation thereto.
   (C)   The Municipal Board of Health may appoint a Local Health Officer to
carry out its health programs and policies. Until such appointment is made, the
County Health Officer or his or her authorized representative pursuant to an
agreement between the town and the County Board of Health may perform the
duties of a Local Health Officer and enforce the public health ordinances for
the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-45)
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
32.01   Application of chapter
   
32.02   Jurisdiction
   
32.03   Compensation of Judges
   
32.04   No change of venue; disqualification of Judge
   
32.05   Court Marshal
   
32.06   Municipal Attorney as Prosecutor
   
32.07   Clerk of Court
   
32.08   Writs and process
   
32.09   Rules and procedure
   
32.10   Style of prosecutions
   
32.11   Summons
   
32.12   Warrant of arrest
   
32.13   Arrest for misdemeanor traffic violation other than parking or
standing; bail
   
32.14   Non-traffic violations; arrest; bail
   
32.15   Failure to appear according to terms of bond; forfeiture
   
32.16   Arraignment
   
32.17   Jury trials; qualifications of jurors
   
32.18   Selection and summons of jurors
   
32.19   Judgment
   
32.20   Fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses
   
32.21   Costs
   
32.22   Enforcement of payment of fines by imprisonment; persons unable to pay
   
32.23   Suspension of judgment or costs; reconfinement; execution of sentence
   
32.24   Contempt of court
   
32.25   Prosecution for same offense in another court prohibited
   
32.26   Appeals
   
32.27   District Attorney to defend appeals in certain cases
   
32.28   Penalty assessment
§ 32.01 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Court of the town, as put into operation and continued by resolution duly
passed and filed in the office of the County Clerk and the office of the Clerk
of the Supreme Court. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this
chapter and provisions of any other ordinance of the town, the provisions of
this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)
§ 32.02 JURISDICTION.
   The Municipal Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and
determine all prosecutions wherein a violation of any provisions of this code
of ordinances or of any other ordinance of the town is charged, including any
such prosecutions transferred to said court, in accordance with applicable
laws.
(Prior Code, § 13-2)
§ 32.03 COMPENSATION OF JUDGES.
   The compensation of the Judge and the Alternate or Acting Judge of the
Municipal Court of the town shall be as determined by resolution of the Town
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13-11)
§ 32.04 NO CHANGE OF VENUE; DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   (A)   In prosecutions before the Municipal Court, no change of venue shall
be allowed, but the Municipal Judge before whom the case is pending may certify
his or her disqualification or he or she may be disqualified from sitting,
under the terms, conditions, and procedures provided by law for courts of
record.
   (B)   If the Municipal Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by
an Alternate or Acting Judge, appointed as provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 13-12)
§ 32.05 COURT MARSHAL.
   All writs on process of the Municipal Court shall be directed to the Chief
of Police of the town, who shall serve as Marshal of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 13-13)
§ 32.06 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY AS PROSECUTOR.
   The Municipal Attorney, or his or her duly designated assistant, shall be
the Prosecutor of the Municipal Court and shall be empowered to prosecute all
alleged violations of the ordinances of the town, and to prosecute and resist
appeals and proceedings in error and review from the court to any other courts
of the state. He or she shall also be authorized to represent the town in all
proceedings arising out of matters of the court.
(Prior Code, § 13-14)
§ 32.07 CLERK OF COURT.
   (A)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer, or a deputy designated by him or her, shall
be ex officio Clerk of the Court.
   (B)   The Court Clerk shall:
      (1)   Assist the Municipal Judge in recording the proceedings of the
court and in preparing writs, process, and other papers;
      (2)   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the court;
      (3)   Enter all pleadings, process, and proceedings in the dockets of the
court;
      (4)   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceeding of
the court as the Municipal Judge shall direct;
      (5)   Receive and receipt for forfeitures, fees, deposits, and sums of
money payable to the court;
      (6)   Deliver to the Court Clerk, upon receipt of all money so received
by him or her (except such special deposits for fees as shall be received to be
disbursed by him or her for such special purposes), to be placed in the
Municipal General Fund or in such other fund and in such manner as the Town
Board of Trustees may direct, by motion or resolution;
      (7)   Make duplicate receipts for the fees, fines, and forfeitures, one
copy of which shall be given to the Court Clerk for retention together with a
detailed statement of costs, the style of the case in which they were paid, and
the name of the party paying the same; and
      (8)   The Clerk of the Court shall give bond to the town in the sum of
$1,000.
(Prior Code, § 13-15)
§ 32.08 WRITS AND PROCESS.
   (A)   All writs and processes of the Municipal Court shall be directed to
the Marshal of the Court, i.e., the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or a designated law enforcement officer of the
town shall serve an arrest warrant or summons issued by the Municipal Court any
place in the county.
(Prior Code, § 13-16)
§ 32.09 RULES AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Municipal Judge shall adopt rules of procedure the same as
provided by law for the trial of misdemeanors.
   (B)   The court shall take judicial notice of state statutes and the
ordinances of the town.
   (C)   Consistent with the provisions of this section, the Judge may
prescribe such other rules as are necessary for the proper conduct of business
of the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 13-17)
§ 32.10 STYLE OF PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   All prosecutions shall be by complaint subscribed by the complainant
and verified before a Judge, Court Clerk, Deputy Court Clerk, or law
enforcement officer. No warrant for arrest shall be issued until the complaint
has been approved by the Municipal Judge.
   (B)   All prosecutions for the violation of municipal ordinances shall be
styled, “The Town of Sentinel vs. (name of person(s) charged).”
(Prior Code, § 13-18)
§ 32.11 SUMMONS.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging a violation of any ordinance
of the town, the Municipal Judge, shall issue a summons, naming the person
charged, specifying his or her address or place of residence (if known),
stating the offense with which he or she is charged, and giving him or her
notice to answer the charge in the Municipal Court on a date certain, five days
hence (Sundays and holidays excepted), or the next Municipal Court date after
the summons is served upon him or her. The summons shall contain a provision
for the official return of the summons and include such other pertinent
information as may be necessary.
   (B)   A summons shall not be required if the Judge issues a warrant for
arrest or if the defendant has been issued a citation containing an order to
appear on a date certain.
   (C)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy personally to the
defendant. If the defendant fails to appear and answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his or her arrest, as provided
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-19)
§ 32.12 WARRANT OF ARREST.
   (A)   Except as may otherwise be provided in this code of ordinances, upon
the filing of a complaint approved by the Municipal Judge, there shall be
issued a warrant of arrest in substantially the following form:
 
The Town of Sentinel, Oklahoma, to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of
Sentinel, Oklahoma:
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (name of complaint) that the
offense of (cite ordinance) has been committed and accusing (name of defendant
(s)) thereof, you are commanded therefore forthwith to arrest the above named
(name of defendant(s)) and bring (him, her, them) before me at my office at the
Sentinel, Oklahoma Municipal Court room.
Witnessed my hand this ______ day of __________, 20___.
Judge of the Municipal Court of the Town of Sentinel, Oklahoma.
 
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Marshal of the Court to execute such
warrant as promptly as possible either personally, through a duly constituted
member of the police force of the town, or through any other person lawfully
authorized to act.
(Prior Code, § 13-20)
§ 32.13 ARREST FOR MISDEMEANOR TRAFFIC VIOLATION OTHER THAN PARKING OR
STANDING; BAIL.
   (A)   If a resident or nonresident of a municipality having a Municipal
Court is arrested by a law enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor
violation of a traffic ordinance, other than an ordinance pertaining to a
parking or standing traffic violation and the arrested person is eligible to
sign a written promise to appear and be released upon personal recognizance,
then the procedures provided for in the State and Municipal Traffic Bail Bond
Procedures Act, being 220 O.S. §§ 1115.1 et seq., shall govern.
   (B)   The Town Board, by ordinance, may prescribe a bail bond schedule for
this purpose and may provide for bail to be used as payment of the fine and
costs upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, as provided for in this State
and Municipal Bail Bond Procedures Act.
   (C)   Absent such ordinance, the Municipal Court may prescribe a bail bond
schedule for traffic offenses. The amount of bail shall not exceed the maximum
fine provided by ordinance for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-21)
§ 32.14 NON-TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; ARREST; BAIL.
   (A)   A resident who is arrested for the violation of a non-traffic
ordinance shall be released immediately by the arresting officer if the
resident acknowledges receipt of a citation by signing it unless it reasonably
appears to the officers:
      (1)   The person may cause injury to himself, herself, or others, or
damage to property, if released;
      (2)   The person will not appear in response to the citation; or
      (3)   The person is arrested for an offense against a person or property.
   (B)   If a person fails to appear in response to a citation, a warrant shall
be issued for his or her arrest, and his or her appearance shall be compelled.
   (C)   If a resident is not permitted to secure his or her own release by
signing the citation, he or she shall be admitted to bail either before or
after arraignment or shall be released on his or her own recognizance.
   (D)   If a nonresident is arrested, he or she shall be admitted to bail
either before or after arraignment.
   (E)   Bail shall not be more than the maximum fine provided for by ordinance
or each offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 13-22)
§ 32.15 FAILURE TO APPEAR ACCORDING TO TERMS OF BOND; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   If, without sufficient excuse, a defendant fails to appear according
to the terms or conditions of his or her bond, either for hearing, arraignment,
trial, or judgment, or upon any other occasion when his or her presence in
court or before the Magistrate may be lawfully required, the Judge may direct
that fact to be entered upon the court minutes, thereby declaring the bond to
be forfeited.
   (B)   Without advancing court costs, the Judge shall then cause the
forfeiture to be certified to the District Court of the county, where it shall
be entered upon the judgment docket with the full force and effect of a
District Court judgment. Court costs shall be collectible from the proceeds of
the bond.
(Prior Code, § 13-23)
§ 32.16 ARRAIGNMENT.
   The arraignment shall be made by the court. The Municipal Judge or the
prosecutor shall read the complaint to the defendant, inform him or her of his
or her legal rights and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him or her
whether he or she pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty,
the court may proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for
subsequent disposition. If the plea is not guilty, the court may proceed to try
the case or may set a date for hearing.
(Prior Code, § 13-24)
§ 32.17 JURY TRIALS; QUALIFICATIONS OF JURORS.
   (A)   In all prosecutions in the Municipal Court for any offense punishable
by a fine of more than $200 or by imprisonment, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, a jury trial shall be had unless waived by the defendant and the
municipality, provided that the municipality has compiled its penal ordinances.
If the municipality has not compiled its ordinances as provided by law, the
fine shall not exceed $50. In prosecutions for all other offenses, or in cases
wherein a jury trial is waived by the defendant and the municipality, trial
shall be to the court.
   (B)   A jury in the Municipal Court shall consist of six jurors, five of
whom may return a verdict. Jurors shall be good and lawful men or women,
citizens of the county, having the qualifications of jurors in the District
Court.
(Prior Code, § 13-25)
§ 32.18 SELECTION AND SUMMONS OF JURORS.
   (A)   Jurors in the Municipal Court shall be selected under the same terms
and conditions as are provided for by law for the District Courts. The
Municipal Judge may make a written request for a stated number of jurors to the
Chief Judge of the District Court. The Clerk of the District Court shall draw
from the jury wheel a requested number of jurors in the same manner as is
provided by law for the District Court until the number requested, who from
their addresses appear to reside within the corporate limits of the
municipality, is drawn and to prepare a list of names drawn and certify such
list to the Judge of the Municipal Court. On completion of the draw, the Clerk
shall immediately return to the jury wheel all names drawn which are not placed
on the certified list.
   (B)   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall make written request to the
Judge of the District Court for a stated number of additional jurors, if, after
allowance of claimed statutory exemptions, the listed number is found to be
insufficient. Summons of the prospective jurors shall be issued as set out by
ordinance, and may be served in person by the Chief of Police or any member of
the police force of the municipality or may be served by the Clerk of the
Municipal Court by mail.
(Prior Code, § 13-26)
§ 32.19 JUDGMENT.
   At the close of a trial in the Municipal Court, judgment must be rendered by
the Municipal Judge, who shall cause it to be entered in his or her docket. If
the judgment of the Municipal Court is of acquittal and the defendant is not to
be detained for any legal cause, he or she must be discharged at once. If the
defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the Municipal Court must
render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits prescribed by
this code of ordinances or other applicable ordinance and imposing sentence
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 13-27)
§ 32.20 FEES AND MILEAGE OF JURORS AND WITNESSES.
   (A)   Witnesses and jurors shall be entitled to $5 for each day of
attendance, plus $0.06 for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in going
to and returning from the place of attendance, if their residence is more than
five miles outside the corporate limits of the town. No witness shall receive
fees or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or the sate
travel. No witness fee shall be paid to any police or peace officer.
   (B)   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the Clerk
of the Court a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of
attendance for each witness to be summoned. Such deposit shall not be required
from an indigent defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
      (1)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      (2)   The defendant, by reason of his or her poverty, is unable to
provide fees and mileage allowed by law;
      (3)   The testimony of such witnesses is material; and
      (4)   Their attendance at the trial is necessary for his or her proper
defense.
   (C)   The fees of witnesses for indigent defendants shall be paid by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 13-28)
§ 32.21 COSTS.
   If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall charge
and collect costs from the defendant, in a sum to equal $30 plus the fees and
mileage of witnesses and jurors.
(Prior Code, § 13-29)
§ 32.22 ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT OF FINES BY IMPRISONMENT; PERSONS UNABLE TO PAY.
   (A)   If a defendant who is financially able refuses or neglects to pay a
fine or costs or both, payment may be enforced by imprisonment until the same
shall be satisfied at the rate of $5 per day.
   (B)   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
Municipal Judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon the court
minutes and to be certified to the District Court of the county, where it shall
be entered upon the District Court judgment docket and shall have the full
force and effect of a District Court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies
shall be available for the enforcement of said judgment as are available to any
other judgment creditor.
(Prior Code, § 13-30)
§ 32.23 SUSPENSION OF JUDGMENT OR COSTS; RECONFINEMENT; EXECUTION OF SENTENCE.
   (A)   After sentencing, the Judge may suspend the judgment or costs or both
and allow the person so convinced to be released upon his or her own
recognizance. Any person so released shall be required to report at such times
and to such person or officer as the Judge shall direct. The Judge may cause a
warrant to be issued for any person so released if it shall be made to appear
to the Judge that such person:
      (1)   Has been guilty of the violation of any law after his or her
release;
      (2)   Is habitually associating with lewd or vicious person; or
      (3)   Is indulging in vicious habits.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of the warrant by the Judge, the person shall be
delivered forthwith to the place of confinement to which he or she was
originally sentenced and shall serve out the full term for which he or she was
originally sentenced.
   (C)   Execution of municipal sentences shall be carried out in accordance
with the provisions of 11 O.S. § 27-122.1, providing for community service
without compensation in lieu of imprisonment; manner of imprisonment;
modification, reduction, suspension, and deferral of sentencing; continuing or
delaying the imposition of judgment and sentence; and for administrative fee in
the event of imposition of a deferred sentence.
(Prior Code, § 13-31)
§ 32.24 CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   The Judge shall have power to enforce due obedience to orders, rules, and
judgments made by him or her and may fine or imprison for contempt offered to
the Judge while holding his or her court or to process issued by him or her in
the same manner and to the same extent as the District Courts of the state.
(Prior Code, § 13-32)
§ 32.25 PROSECUTION FOR SAME OFFENSE IN ANOTHER COURT PROHIBITED.
   When a defendant has been in jeopardy for the same or any lesser included
offenses in a Municipal Court or District Court, he or she shall not be
prosecuted in another court for the same or a lesser included offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-33)
§ 32.26 APPEALS.
   An appeal may be taken from a final judgment of the Municipal Court by the
defendant by filing in the District Court of the county within ten days from
the date of the final judgment, a notice of appeal and by filing a copy of the
notice with the Municipal Court. In case of an appeal, a trial de novo shall be
had, and there shall be a right to a jury if the offense is punishable by a
fine of more than $200 and costs.
(Prior Code, § 13-34)
§ 32.27 DISTRICT ATTORNEY TO DEFEND APPEALS IN CERTAIN CASES.
   The District Attorney and his or her assistants shall defend any appeal from
the Municipal Court; provided, that the Municipal Attorney is not paid a salary
in excess of a rate of $3,600 per annum.
(Prior Code, § 13-35)
§ 32.28 PENALTY ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   If the Judge of the Municipal Court of the town is a licensed attorney
and the trial is to the court, the court may impose a fine not to exceed $200,
except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   If the Judge is a licensed attorney, the court may, in those instances
where such specific penalty is provided for, impose a fine not to exceed $200,
or impose imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or impose both fine and
imprisonment. The court may, in lieu of imprisonment, order a term of community
service without compensation. Further, the court may enforce the payment of
fines and/or costs by compelling work on streets, alleys, avenues, areas, and
public grounds of the town, subject to the direction of the appropriate officer
of the town at the rate of $20 per day for useful labor, until the fines or
costs are satisfied.
   (C)   If the Judge is not a licensed attorney, the court may impose a fine
not to exceed $50.
(Prior Code, § 13-40)
CHAPTER 33: CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Liability
   
33.03   Federal, state, or private aid may be accepted
   
33.04   Emergency operations center
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL DEFENSE. The preparation for and carrying out of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which primary responsibility is assigned
elsewhere by federal, state, or local law or ordinance, to protect the public
peace, health, and safety and to preserve lives and property in the town during
any emergency resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action,
or from any flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm, or other
catastrophe in or near said community and involving imminent or actual peril to
life and property. These functions include administration, organization,
planning, recruiting, training, education, information, welfare service, relief
service, police service, warden service, fire service, rescue service, medical
service, health service, transportation service, communications service,
streets and sewers service, utilities service, general engineering service,
plant protection service, supply service, mutual aid, mobile support,
evacuation, and all other functions necessary or incidental to the preparation
for any carrying out of the foregoing functions.
   ENEMY-CAUSED EMERGENCY. Any state of emergency caused by actual or impending
attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, anywhere within the United States
and involving imminent peril to lives and property in the town. Such EMERGENCY
shall be deemed to exist only when the Mayor shall so declare by public
proclamation, and such EMERGENCY shall be deemed to exist until the aforesaid
Mayor shall declare its termination by public proclamation or until the Town
Board of Trustees shall declare its termination by resolution.
   NATURAL EMERGENCY. Any state of emergency caused by an actual or impending
flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, storm, or other catastrophe in or
near the town and involving imminent peril to lives and property. Such
EMERGENCY shall be deemed to exist and to be terminated under the same
conditions as prescribed for an enemy-caused emergency.
(Prior Code, § 7-10)
§ 33.02 LIABILITY.
   Neither the town nor any officer or member of the Civil Defense Organization
provided for in this code of ordinances shall be liable for personal injury or
property damage sustained by any person appointed or acting as a volunteer
civil defense worker or member of any agency engaged in civil defense activity
prior to, or during, either an enemy-caused or a natural emergency. Nor shall
the town or any such officer or member be liable for the death or injury of any
persons or damage to property, resulting from such civil defense activity prior
to, or during, either enemy-caused or a natural emergency.
(Prior Code, § 7-11)
§ 33.03 FEDERAL, STATE, OR PRIVATE AID MAY BE ACCEPTED.
   Whenever the federal government, the state, or any person, firm, or
corporation shall offer to the town any services, equipment, supplies,
materials, or funds by way of gift, grant, or loan, for purposes of civil
defense, the Mayor may accept such offer and may authorize the Director of
Civil Defense to receive the same, subject to the terms of the offer and the
rules and regulations, if any, of the agency making the offer.
(Prior Code, § 7-12)
§ 33.04 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER.
   (A)   A civil defense emergency operations center is hereby established for
the town.
   (B)   Operation of the center shall be in conformance with appropriate rules
and regulations adopted by motion of the Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-13) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-20)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Purchasing and sales procedures
   
34.002   Competitive bidding
   
34.003   Insurance
   
34.004   Law enforcement officers training reimbursement
   
34.005   Local Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board
   
34.006   Social Security, employees’ benefit plan and retirement system
   
34.007   Telephone inspection fee
Sales Tax
   
34.020   Citation
   
34.021   Definitions
   
34.022   Tax collector defined
   
34.023   Classification of taxpayers
   
34.024   Effective date
   
34.025   Purpose of revenues
   
34.026   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
34.027   Exemptions
   
34.028   Tax due when; reports; records
   
34.029   Remittance of tax; tax brackets
   
34.030   Tax constitutes debt
   
34.031   Vendor’s duty to collect tax
   
34.032   Credits and discounts
   
34.033   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
34.034   Waiver or remission of interest or penalties
   
34.035   Erroneous payment; claim for refund
   
34.036   Fraudulent returns
   
34.037   Records confidential
   
34.038   Report of municipal sales tax information
   
34.039   Amendments
   
34.040   Provisions cumulative
Use Tax
   
34.055   Tax levied
   
34.056   Automatic change in use tax rate upon change in sales tax rate
   
34.057   Exemptions
   
34.058   Time when due; returns; payment
   
34.059   Tax constitutes debt
   
34.060   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor
   
34.061   Collection of tax by retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of
business within state or both within and without state
   
34.062   Revoking permits
   
34.063   Remunerative deductions allowed vendors or retailers of other states
   
34.064   Interest and penalties; delinquency
   
34.065   Waiver of interest and penalties
   
34.066   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
34.067   Records confidential
   
34.068   Provisions cumulative
   
34.069   Definitions
   
34.070   Classification of taxpayers
   
34.071   Subsisting state permits
   
34.072   Purpose of revenues
Gross Receipts Tax
   
34.085   Power to levy and assess tax; tax in lieu of other taxes
   
34.086   Application of tax
   
34.087   Tax levied; payable quarterly; disposition
   
34.088   Penalties; failure to pay tax
   
34.089   Lien for tax
 
   
34.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.001 PURCHASING AND SALES PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees, by a vote of a majority of its members,
shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase authorizations for, all
supplies, materials, equipment, and contractual services for the operation of
the municipal government. Before the purchase of, or contract for, any
supplies, materials, or equipment, or the sale of any surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials, or equipment, ample opportunity for competitive bidding,
under such regulations and with such exceptions as said Town Board may
prescribe, shall be given.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. Include any type of personal or professional
service, employment, or undertaking, including such services as utilities, pest
control, maintenance, and repairs, except services performed by municipal
officials or persons employed by the municipality.
   (C)   The Mayor or other town official designated by the Town Board of
Trustees as a purchasing officer may contract for and purchase, or issue
purchase authorization for, supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual
services which do not exceed $12,500 in a single transaction without
competitive bidding.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of this section, surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials, or equipment belonging to the town may be sold pursuant to
a vote carrying a majority of the Town Board of Trustees. No sale shall be made
under this section until the Town Board of Trustees has declared the supplies,
materials, or equipment involved to be surplus or obsolete. Except as may
otherwise be provided, the Town Board of Trustees shall advertise any sale
under this section in a newspaper of general circulation in the town or county,
or in such other manner as deemed necessary to adequately reach prospective
buyers to give them an opportunity to make bids. All bids shall be sealed and
opened in public at a designated time and place, except when the sale is by
auction. The Town Board of Trustees shall sell such supplies, materials, and
equipment to the highest responsible bidder and, if necessary, shall cast lots
in case of a tie to determine to whom to sell. The Town Board of Trustees may
sell surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment, the total value of
which does not exceed $100 in a single transaction, without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding.
   (E)   No member of the Town Board of Trustees may sell, or furnish for a
consideration, any materials or supplies for use by the town, and any member of
the Town Board voting for, or consenting to, such contract or purchase is
personally liable for any obligation in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-50) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.002 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   All purchases or contracts of the town shall be in accordance with the
Public Competitive Bidding Act of 1974, being 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq., and other
appropriate state laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-51)
§ 34.003 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The town and its employees acting within the scope of their employment
shall be liable for loss rebutting from their torts subject to the limitations
and exceptions set forth in the Governmental Tort Claims Act (51 O.S. §§ 151 et
seq.). The total liability of the town arising out of an accident or occurrence
shall not exceed:
      (1)   Twenty-five thousand dollars for any claim or to any claimant who
has more than one claim for loss of property arising out of a single accident
or occurrence;
      (2)   One hundred thousand dollars to any claimant for his or her claim
for any other loss arising out of a single accident or occurrence; or
      (3)   One million dollars for any number of claims arising out of a
single occurrence or accident.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby directed to procure liability
insurance to the limits of liability provided in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-52)
§ 34.004 LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS TRAINING REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a crime punishable by a fine of $10 or more or
by incarceration, excluding parking and standing violations, or any person
forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense, shall be ordered by the
court to pay $4 as a separate penalty assessment, which shall be in addition to
any fines and penalties provided for by law.
   (B)   The Court Clerk shall forward such separate penalty assessments to the
State Treasury after deducting 2% for administrative handling. Said deposits
shall be due on January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each calendar
year.
(Prior Code, § 1-53)
§ 34.005 LOCAL FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION AND RETIREMENT BOARD.
   (A)   The Mayor and the Town Clerk/Treasurer, together with three members of
the Fire Department, constitute the Local Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement
Board. The Fire Department shall elect, by ballot, three members, one of whom
shall serve for the term of one year, one for the term of two years, and one
for the term of three years. Thereafter, the Fire Department shall elect by
ballot one of its members to serve upon the Local Board for a term of three
years.
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve as ex officio member and chairperson of the
Local Board and shall vote only when necessary to avoid a tie. The Town Clerk/
Treasurer shall be ex officio secretary and treasurer. The members shall elect
a vice chairperson and shall promulgate such rules and regulations as necessary
for the orderly conduct of business.
   (C)   The Local Board shall be responsible for reviewing applications for
retirement and disability benefits and shall recommend approval, disapproval,
or modification of each application and the secretary shall forward such
recommendations to the State Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board within
ten days following the Local Board’s decision.
   (D)   The Local Board shall hold meetings upon the call of its chairperson
at such times as the chairperson deems necessary. The Local Board shall keep a
record of its proceedings. The record shall be a public record. A majority of
all the regular voting members of the Local Board shall constitute a quorum and
have power to transact business.
   (E)   For each member of the Volunteer Fire Department, the town shall
deposit yearly with the State Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board $60.
Such contributions shall be re-evaluated by the next scheduled actuarial study,
and the amount of contribution shall be adjusted accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1-115)
§ 34.006 SOCIAL SECURITY, EMPLOYEES’ BENEFIT PLAN AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Extension of benefits. It is hereby declared to be the policy and
purpose of the town to extend to the employees and officials thereof, not
excluded by law or this section and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function, the benefits of the system of Federal
Old-Age and Survivors Insurance, as authorized by the Federal Social Security
Act and amendments thereto, including Pub. Law No. 734, Eighty-First Congress.
In pursuance of such policy and for that purpose, the town shall take such
action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-116)
   (B)   Execution of agreements. The Mayor of the town is hereby authorized
and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with
the State Public Welfare Commission to secure coverage of the town’s employees
and officials as provided in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-117)
   (C)   Withholdings of salaries. Withholdings from salaries or wages of
employees and officials for the purpose provided in division (A) above are
hereby authorized to be made in such amounts and at such times as may be
required by applicable federal laws or regulations by 51 O.S. § 125(c)(2) and
shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated by such laws and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-118)
   (D)   Contributions by town. There shall be appropriated by the town from
available funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations for employers’ contributions to the system
of Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance. Such funds shall be paid over to
the state or federal agency designated by said laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-119)
   (E)   Records. The town shall keep such records and make such reports as may
be required by applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-120)
§ 34.007 TELEPHONE INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   Inspection fee. There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and
service charge upon each and every person, firm, or corporation operating a
telephone exchange in the town in the amount equal to 2% of the gross revenues
for each current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered
wholly within the limits of the town to compensate the town for expenses
incurred and services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power,
supervision, police regulations, and police control of the construction of
lines and equipment of the telephone company in the town. The inspection fee
and charge shall be on a calendar year basis and shall be due and payable to
the town on or before May 1 each year and shall be paid into and appropriated
and expended from the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-177)
   (B)   Fee in lieu of taxes. During the continued substantial compliance with
the terms of this section by the owner of any telephone exchange, the charges
levied hereby shall be and continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges,
excise, franchise, license, privilege, and permit fees or taxes or assessments,
except ad valorem taxes; provided however, that it is not intended hereby to
extinguish or abrogate any existing arrangement whereby the town is permitted
to use the underground conduits, duct space, or pole contracts of said company
for the fire alarm and/or police call systems of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-178)
SALES TAX
§ 34.020 CITATION.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Sentinel Sales Tax
Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 1-60)
§ 34.021 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms, and phrases contained in the State Sales
Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference into this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-61)
§ 34.022 TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the municipal government or the official
agency of the state duly designated according to law, or contract authorized by
law, to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
(Prior Code, § 1-62)
§ 34.023 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be a prescribed by the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§
1350 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-63)
§ 34.024 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become and be effective on and after September 10,
1985, subject to approval by a majority of the registered voters of the town
voting on the same at a general or special municipal election.
(Prior Code, § 1-64)
§ 34.025 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of municipal government of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-65)
§ 34.026 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied upon all sales, not otherwise exempted in the State
Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq., a municipal excise tax of 3% of
the gross receipts or gross proceeds from the sale of the following:
   (A)   Tangible personal property;
   (B)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service, except water and those specifically exempt;
   (C)   Transportation for hire by common carriers;
   (D)   Service by telephone or telegraph companies to subscribers or users;
   (E)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds, or character and any
service of printing or over-printing, duplicating written or printed matter in
any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on magnetic
tapes furnished by customers;
   (F)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public rooming
house, motel, public lodging house, or tourist camp;
   (G)   Foods, confections, and all drinks sold or dispensed;
   (H)   Advertising, advertising devices, and servicing said devices;
   (I)   Dues or fees to clubs;
   (J)   Tickets for admission to or voluntary contributions made to places of
amusement, sports, entertainment, exhibition, display, or recreational events
or activities;
   (K)   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement, sports,
entertainment, exhibition, display, or recreational events or activities;
   (L)   The rental of equipment for amusement;
   (M)   The gross receipts from sales from any vending machine;
   (N)   The gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of
tangible personal property;
   (O)   (1)   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease, or other device or
instrument whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed
performances or rights to receive images, pictures, or performances for
telecast by any method are transferred.
      (2)   Persons regularly engaged in the business of exhibiting motion
pictures for which the sale of tickets or admissions is taxed pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be consumers or users in
respect to the licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture features,
shorts, cartoons, and scenes from copyrighted features, and the sale or
licensing of such films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of
the State Sales Tax Code;
   (P)   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees, and other floral items, whether or not
produced by the vendor, sold persons engaged in florist or nursery business in
this state;
   (Q)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property, including
materials, supplies, and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though said real estate is intended
for resale as real property, hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users;
   (R)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons
primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repair persons, are hereby
declared to be sales to consumers or users; and
   (S)   The sale, preparation, or serving of ice or non-alcoholic beverages
that are sold, prepared, or served for the purpose of being mixed with
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where such sale,
preparation, or service occurs.
(Prior Code, § 1-66)
§ 34.027 EXEMPTIONS.
   All items that are exempt from the state sales tax shall be exempt from any
sales tax levied by this subchapter. These exemptions include exemptions in
sales subject to other taxes (68 O.S. § 1355), of sales to governmental and
nonprofit entities (68 O.S. § 1356), and of sales of certain agricultural
products (68 O.S. § 1358), as well as general exemptions (68 O.S. § 1357) and
exemptions for manufacturers (68 O.S. § 1359) and for corporations and
partnerships (68 O.S. § 1360).
(Prior Code, § 1-67)
§ 34.028 TAX DUE WHEN; REPORTS; RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the State
Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-68)
§ 34.029 REMITTANCE OF TAX; TAX BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time
and in the manner and form provided for payment of the state sales tax under
the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
   (B)   The bracket system shall be used for the collection of both the 3%
municipal sales tax, 2% county sales tax, and 4.5% state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 1-69)
§ 34.030 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, fees, penalty, and interest due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors and may be collected by suit as any other personal debt.
(Prior Code, § 1-70)
§ 34.031 VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX.
   (A)   (1)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user
to the vendor and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this town to
collect from the consumer or user, the full amount of the tax levied by this
subchapter, or any amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the
average equivalent thereof.
      (2)   Every person required to collect any tax imposed by this
subchapter, and in the case of a corporation, each principal officer thereof,
shall be personally liable for said tax.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and, when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be debt from the consumer or
user to the vendor until paid and shall be recoverable by law in the same
manner as other debts.
   (C)   A vendor, as defined herein, who willfully or intentionally fails,
neglects, or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
subchapter, or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied,
or makes in any form of advertising (verbally or otherwise) any statement which
implies that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer
or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax or in any
manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and be penalized in
accordance with §
34.999.
(Prior Code, § 1-71) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.032 CREDITS AND DISCOUNTS.
   Remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same credits
and discounts as may be allowed by the State Sales Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§
1350 et seq., for collection of state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1-72)
§ 34.033 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   68 O.S. § 217, as amended, is hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as a part of this subchapter. Interest and penalties at the rates and
in the amounts as therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable
in cases of delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this
subchapter.
   (B)   The failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the report
and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this subchapter shall
cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if any such delinquency continues
for a period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit his or her claim to any
discount allowed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-73)
§ 34.034 WAIVER OR REMISSION OF INTEREST OR PENALTIES.
   (A)   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof ordinarily accruing by
reason of a taxpayer’s failure to pay a municipal tax within the statutory
period allowed for its payment may be waived or remitted, provided that the
taxpayer’s failure to pay the tax is satisfactorily explained or provided such
failure has resulted from a mistake by the taxpayer of either the law or the
facts subjecting him or her to such tax, or inability to pay such interest of
penally resulting from insolvency.
   (B)   The waiver or remission of all or any part of any such interest or
penalties shall not become effective unless approved by a majority of the Town
Board. The application for the approval of such waiver or remission shall be
filed in the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-74)
§ 34.035 ERRONEOUS PAYMENT; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Any taxpayer who has paid to the town, through error of fact, or
computation, or misinterpretation of law, any municipal tax may be refunded the
amount of such tax so erroneously paid, without interest. Such taxpayer must
file a verified claim for refund within three years from the date of payment of
such tax erroneously paid.
(Prior Code, § 1-75)
§ 34.036 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   Any person who, with intent to defeat or evade the assessment or levy of
municipal tax, shall make a false or fraudulent return, statement, report,
claim, invoice, application, or other instrument, or any person who shall aid
or abet another in filing a false or fraudulent return or statement, shall be
guilty of a felony and be penalized in accordance with §
34.999.
(Prior Code, § 1-76) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.037 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The records and files of the State Tax Commission concerning the
administration of this article or of any state tax law shall be considered
confidential and privileged, except as otherwise provided for by 68 O.S. § 205,
and neither the Tax Commission nor its employees nor any official or employee
of the town charged with the custody of such records or files shall disclose
any information therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 1-77) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.038 REPORT OF MUNICIPAL SALES TAX INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall receive by mail from the State Tax
Commission a quarterly report containing the following information:
      (1)   A list of names and addresses of persons who report doing business
within the town during the preceding calendar year and who have a sales tax
permit; and
      (2)   A list of persons who are more than 60 days delinquent in remitting
sales taxes.
   (B)   The report is intended to enable the Town Board of Trustees to
determine the actual municipal sales tax liability of any person engaged in
business within the town.
   (C)   In addition to the penalty for wrongful disclosure of information set
forth in §
34.037, town officials or employees who violate the confidentiality of a
taxpayer’s records and files may be removed or dismissed from office.
(Prior Code, § 1-78)
§ 34.039 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of this subchapter at the election
hereinbefore provided, have authorized the town, by ordinances duly enacted, to
make such administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and
manner of administering and enforcing this subchapter as may be necessary or
proper for efficiency and fairness; provided, that the rate of the tax herein
provided shall not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the
municipality, as provided by law and §
34.024.
(Prior Code, § 1-79)
§ 34.040 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of municipal ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-80)
USE TAX
§ 34.055 TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person
storing, using, or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible
personal property or brought into this municipality, an excise tax on the
storage, use, or other consuming within the municipality of such property at
the rate equal to the prevailing total of all sales taxes levied by the
municipality on the purchase price of each property. Such tax shall be paid by
every person storing, using, or otherwise consuming, within the municipality,
tangible personal property purchased or brought into the municipality.
   (B)   The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property within the municipality and shall be
assessed to only property purchased outside the state; provided, that the tax
levied herein shall not be levied against tangible personal property intended
solely for use outside the municipality, but which is stored within the
municipality pending shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily
retained in the municipality for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance, or other service.
   (C)   Any person liable for payment of the tax authorized herein may deduct
from such tax any local or municipal sales tax previously paid on such goods or
services; provided, that the amount deducted shall not exceed the amount that
would have been due if the taxes imposed by the municipality had been levied on
the sale of such goods or services.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.056 AUTOMATIC CHANGE IN USE TAX RATE UPON CHANGE IN SALES TAX RATE.
   The rate of excise tax levied pursuant to this subchapter shall
automatically adjust to match the prevailing sales tax rate levied by the
municipality, such change in use tax rate to be effective on the date the
change in the prevailing sales tax rate takes effect, and such change in use
tax rate not requiring further approval of the governing body of the
municipality.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.057 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply:
   (A)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
brought into the municipality by a nonresident individual, visiting in the
municipality, for his or her personal use or enjoyment, while within the
municipality;
   (B)   In respect to the use of tangible personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (C)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the State Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., and this subchapter has been paid by the
person using such tangible personal property in the municipality, whether such
tax was levied under any article of tangible personal property has already been
subjected to a tax by the state or any other state or municipality in respect
to its sale or use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the State
Use Tax Code and this subchapter, the provisions of this subchapter shall also
apply to it by a rate measured by the difference only between the rate provided
by both the State Use Tax Code and this subchapter, and the rate by which the
previous tax upon the sale or use was computed. Provided, that no credit shall
be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality, if that state or
municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in the state and the
municipality;
   (D)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons for the
operation of manufacturing plants already established in the municipality.
Provided, this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery equipment is
incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing
property subject to taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality. The
term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
   (E)   In respect to the use of tangible personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality;
   (F)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of the municipality where such personal property is for such individual’s
personal use or enjoyment;
   (G)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads;
   (H)   In respect to livestock purchased outside the state and brought into
this municipality for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is late resold;
or
   (I)   In respect to the use of rail transportation cars to haul coal to
coal-fired plants located in this municipality which generate electric power.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.058 TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT.
   The tax levied by this subchapter is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S.
§§ 1401 et seq.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.059 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   Such taxes, penalty, and interest due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suits as any other debt.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.060 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR.
   (A)   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within
and without the state, and making sales of tangible personal property from a
place of business outside this state for use in this municipality shall at the
time of making such sales collect no use tax levied by this subchapter from the
purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form
prescribed by the Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission shall, by regulation,
require such receipt.
   (B)   Each retailer or vendor shall list with the Tax Commission the name
and address of all its agents operating in this municipality and location of
any and all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of business
in this town.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.061 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR NOT MAINTAINING A PLACE OF
BUSINESS WITHIN STATE OR BOTH WITHIN AND WITHOUT STATE.
   (A)   The Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize
the collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not
maintaining a place of business within this state but who makes sales of
tangible personal property for use in this municipality and by the out-of-state
place of business of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both
within and without the state and making sales of tangible personal property as
such out-of-state place of business for use in the municipality. Such retailer
or vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the
Tax Commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as
it shall prescribe.
   (B)   When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to
collect the tax upon all tangible personal property sold to his or her
knowledge for use within the municipality. Such authority and permit may be
cancelled when at any time the Tax Commission considers that such tax can more
effectively be collected from the person using such property in this
municipality. Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are
made or completed by delivery to the purchaser within this municipality by the
retailer or vendor in such retailer’s or vendor’s vehicle, whether owned or
leased (not by common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be
subject to applicable municipality sales tax at the pint of delivery and the
tax shall be collected and reported under taxpayer’s sales tax permit number
accordingly.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.062 REVOKING PERMITS.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein, levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter
or any order, rules, or regulations of the Tax Commission, the Tax Commission
may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in 68 O.S. § 1408, by order,
revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued to such retailer or vendor, and if
any such retailer or vendor is a corporation authorized to do business in this
state may, after notice and herein above provided, cancel said corporation’s
license to do business in this state and shall issue a new license only when
such corporation has complied with the obligations under this subchapter, the
State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., or any order, rules,
regulations of the Tax Commission.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.063 REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES.
   Returns and remittances of the tax levied and collected shall be made to the
Tax Commissions at the time and in the manner, form, and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S.
§§ 1401 et seq., and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to
the same discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of state
use tax.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.064 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY.
   68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this subchapter. Provided, that the failure or refusal
of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and remittances of
tax in the time and manner required by this subchapter shall cause such tax to
be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a period of five
days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his or her claim to any discount
allowed under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.065 WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer’s or vendor’s failure to pay the municipality tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance
as applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220 are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.066 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   (A)   Refund of erroneous payment of the municipality use tax herein levied
may be made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner
and procedure, and under the same limitation of time.
   (B)   As provided for administration of the state use tax as set forth in 68
O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.067 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipality use tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same provisions of 68 O.S. § 205 of the State Tax
Code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and made
fully effective and applicable to administration of the municipal use tax as is
herein set forth in full.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.068 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of the municipality’s ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.069 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms, and phrases contained in the State Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq., are hereby adopted by reference and made
part of this subchapter. In addition thereto, the following words and terms
shall be defined as follows. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CITY or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Sentinel, Oklahoma.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the municipality government or the official
agency of the state, duly designated according to laws or contract authorized
by law to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
   TRANSACTION. Sale.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.070 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the classification of taxpayers
hereunder shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the State Use Tax
Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.071 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business which are issued by the Tax
Commission pursuant to the State Use Tax Code, being 68 O.S. §§ 1401 et seq.,
are for the purpose of this subchapter hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted
in lieu of any requirement for an additional municipality permit for the same
purpose.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 34.072 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
municipality and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the
governing body of the municipality for any purposes for which funds may be
lawfully expended as authorized.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
§ 34.085 POWER TO LEVY AND ASSESS TAX; TAX IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES.
   The Town Board of Trustees, being vested with power so to do, does hereby
levy and assess an annual tax upon the gross receipts from residential and
commercial sales of power, light, heat, electricity, water, or both natural and
liquefied petroleum gas in the town in the amount of 2% of the gross receipts
from said residential and commercial sales. This tax shall be in lieu of any
other franchise, license, occupation, or excise tax levied by the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-161)
§ 34.086 APPLICATION OF TAX.
   The tax authorized to be levied in this subchapter shall be levied at the
time this subchapter shall take effect and shall apply to all persons, firms,
associations, or corporations engaged in the business of furnishing power,
light, heat, electricity, water, or both natural and liquefied petroleum gas in
the town, except it shall not apply to any person, firm, association, or
corporation operating under a valid franchise from the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-162)
§ 34.087 TAX LEVIED; PAYABLE QUARTERLY; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   This tax that is now levied in this subchapter shall be levied for a
term of not less than one year and shall continue in effect until further
amended or repealed.
   (B)   It shall be payable quarterly to the Town Clerk/Treasurer of the town
and placed in the General Fund of said town.
(Prior Code, § 1-163)
§ 34.088 PENALTIES; FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   Should any person, firm, or corporation fail or refuse to pay such tax when
levied, action may be taken against such person, firm, or corporation for the
amount of such tax, and all expenses for collecting same, including reasonable
attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 1-164)
§ 34.089 LIEN FOR TAX.
   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the town or any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of selling power, light, heat, electricity, water, or natural and
liquefied petroleum gas.
(Prior Code, § 1-165)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
34.031 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not more than $500 and, upon conviction for a second or other
subsequent offense, shall be fined not more the $500, or incarcerated for not
more than 60 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 1-71)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
34.036 shall be guilty of a felony and shall, upon conviction, be fined not
less than $1,000 and not more than $50,000, or incarcerated in the state
penitentiary for not less than two years and nor more than five years, or both.
(Prior Code, § 1-76)
   (D)   Violation of §
34.037 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding $1,000 or imprisonment in the county jail for a term not exceeding
one year, or by both, and the offender shall be removed or dismissed from
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-77)
   (E)   In addition to all civil penalties provided by §§
34.055 through
34.072, this willful or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances
herein required, or making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose
of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due
under §§
34.055 through
34.072 shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending taxpayer
shall be punished by a fine of not more that $100 and costs. Each day of
noncompliance with §§
34.055 through
34.072 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 7-13-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Municipal utility systems
   
50.02   Connections mandatory
   
50.03   Application for municipal utility services
   
50.04   Deposit for municipal utility services
   
50.05   One premises to a meter
   
50.06   Turning on utilities
   
50.07   Bills due when; delinquency
   
50.08   Utilities may be cut off
   
50.09   Turning utilities on again
   
50.10   Utilities to be turned back on only by town authority
   
50.11   No service connection until bills have been paid
   
50.12   Customers to keep service pipes in good repair
   
50.13   Town not responsible for utility interruption or stoppage
   
50.14   Town personnel may inspect private premises
   
50.15   Interference with fire hydrants; damage of utility system
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Water and sewer services are provided to residents of the town by the
Sentinel Public Utilities Authority, a municipal trust of said town.
   (B)   The town provides solid waste collection and disposal services to
residents of the community. The town may contract with any public or private
entity for the provision of these services.
   (C)   Any reference to the Town Clerk/Treasurer in provisions relating to
water and sewer services shall mean the Utilities Authority Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 20-1)
§ 50.02 CONNECTIONS MANDATORY.
   Each occupied resident and each occupied business or commercial building
within the corporate limits of the town shall connect to the town’s water and
sewer systems so long as the system is brought within at least 150 feet of the
residence or business property line.
(Prior Code, § 20-2) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 APPLICATION FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICES.
   Any person desiring to secure one or more utility connections from the
municipal systems shall make an application therefore to the Town Clerk/
Treasurer, on an application form to be provided by said Clerk/Treasurer. The
applicant shall give such reasonable information as the Town Clerk/Treasurer
may request and shall state in the application that he or she will abide by all
ordinances, rules, and regulations governing the utilities and services of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 20-3)
§ 50.04 DEPOSIT FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICES.
   An applicant for services shall make a deposit, the amount of which shall be
determined by the resolution of the Utilities Authority. An applicant shall not
be granted such service until he or she has paid to the Utilities Secretary
such deposit, which shall serve as a guarantee for the payment of charges for
utilities, services, and other amounts owed to the town in connection with such
municipal services. When a customer’s service is discontinued, the deposit or
any part of such amount of deposit which remains after all such charges and
amounts due the town have been satisfied shall be returned to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 20-4)
§ 50.05 ONE PREMISES TO A METER.
   No more than one premises may be connected to any one water meter or sewer
tap without special arrangements being made with the town. No customer shall
make or permit to be made any subsidiary connection of another’s premises with
his or her water or sewer service.
(Prior Code, § 20-5) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 TURNING ON UTILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn any utility on to any premises
from any municipal system, without written permission of the Town Clerk/
Treasurer. Utilities shall not be turned on until the plumbing or electrical
wiring, as the case may be, had been inspected and approved by the Building
Official or his or her designated representative, as provided by ordinance, and
until any and all deposits and charges have been paid. The Town Clerk/Treasurer
will see that the utility is turned on when all requirements for service have
been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 20-6) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 BILLS DUE WHEN; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All bills for utility service shall be due and payable on or before
the tenth day of the calendar month following the service month when the
service was rendered, after which they shall become delinquent. Service may be
cut off without further notice if the bill is not paid by the twentieth day of
the month, provided however, that service shall not be discontinued on a Friday
or any preceding holiday.
   (B)   Bills rendered when service is discontinued shall be due and payable
to the Town Clerk/Treasurer at the time bills are presented or sent to the
customer.
(Prior Code, § 20-7)
§ 50.08 UTILITIES MAY BE CUT OFF.
   (A)   Utilities may be cut off and service discontinued for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Violation of any ordinance provision relating to a municipal
utility or service system, or violation of any ordinance provision or any
provision of a code adopted by reference relating to water and sanitary
plumbing or electrical installations;
      (2)   Any act or omission in regard to the water system or sanitary sewer
system, the use of water, or the disposal of liquid wastes which jeopardizes
the public health or safety, creates a public nuisance, or interferes with the
rights of others; or
      (3)   Failure to pay a utility bill or other proper charge made in
connection with a municipal utility system by the time specified by ordinance.
   (B)   A particular service may be cut off for any act or omission in regard
to the abuse of another system or service, which jeopardizes the public health
or safety, creates a public nuisance, or interferes with the rights of others.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to cut off or reduce any utility or
service to any customer when necessary to conserve water, protect life or
property, or repair or improve the system.
   (D)   (1)   In case of emergency caused by a water shortage in the municipal
water system, it shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees of the Sentinel
Public Utilities Authority to immediately give notice, by publication to the
system’s water consumers, not to use water obtained from the system for any
purpose other than for strictly domestic use and such other use as the Town
Board may designate, so long as the water shortage lasts.
      (2)   Therefore, and until the Utilities Authority declares the emergency
at an end, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, during
such emergency, to use water obtained from the municipal water system for any
purpose other than strictly domestic use and such other uses as the Board of
Trustees may have designated.
(Prior Code, § 20-8) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 TURNING UTILITIES ON AGAIN.
   When a customer’s utility service has been cut off because of delinquency or
act or omission of the customer, it may be turned on again only when all
charges have been paid or other change in the conditions justify it. A charge
of $25 shall be made for turning a utility on again.
(Prior Code, § 20-9) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 UTILITIES TO BE TURNED BACK ON ONLY BY TOWN AUTHORITY.
   When a utility has been turned off by town personnel, it shall not be turned
on again without written permission of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 20-10) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 NO SERVICE CONNECTION UNTIL BILLS HAVE BEEN PAID.
   A person owing delinquent municipal utility bills or other charges in
connection with a municipal utility system shall not be extended additional
services until such bills and charges have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 20-11) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 CUSTOMERS TO KEEP SERVICE PIPES IN GOOD REPAIR.
   All customers using town utilities shall keep their service pipes and other
apparatus in good repair and in proper operation, and shall not unnecessarily
waste water nor contribute to unsanitary conditions.
(Prior Code, § 20-12) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13 TOWN NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR UTILITY INTERRUPTION OR STOPPAGE.
   The Sentinel Public Utilities Authority shall not be responsible for any
damages due to stoppage or interruption of any utility or service.
(Prior Code, § 20-13)
§ 50.14 TOWN PERSONNEL MAY INSPECT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   The Public Works Superintendent and other municipal personnel may enter any
private premises served by municipal utilities at any reasonable time and
inspect pipes, fixtures, and/or wiring on the premises, or read and examine
meters.
(Prior Code, § 20-14)
§ 50.15 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS; DAMAGE OF UTILITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, unless duly authorized by the
Utilities Authority, to open, turn on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe
or hose to, or connect anything with, any fire hydrant belonging to the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, obstruct access
to any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt, or other
thing.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, destroy, or tamper with
any pipes, lines, meters, or other equipment or property which is a part of
municipal utility system.
(Prior Code, § 20-15) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of any ordinance,
code, or standard adopted by this chapter, or maintains or permits to continue
any public nuisance as defined by this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as provided
in §
10.99. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-70)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Water system defined
   
51.02   Meters
   
51.03   Town to make and maintain water connections
   
51.04   Utility customer to install and maintain service line; shutoff valve
required
   
51.05   Right of entry to premises served by system
   
51.06   Right to turn off water in mains; utilities authority not liable for
damages
   
51.07   Tampering with or injuring waterworks property
   
51.08   Use of water wells for domestic purposes
   
51.09   Use of water from water mains
   
51.10   Domestic use
   
51.11   Use of water interconnections prohibited
   
51.12   Authority of ground water within the town lies with Town Board
   
51.13   Water well permits
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 WATER SYSTEM DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WATER SYSTEM, WATERWORKS, or WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. The waterworks
utility system of the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-20)
§ 51.02 METERS.
   Water from the water system shall be furnished to customers only through
meters. All meters shall be set only under the directions of the Superintendent
of the utilities systems.
(Prior Code, § 20-21) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 TOWN TO MAKE AND MAINTAIN WATER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The Town Public Utilities Authority shall make, inspect, and maintain
all connections to its water lines. It shall be unlawful for any person, other
than a duly authorized agent or employee of the town to make a connection to
any water line belonging to or controlled by the town.
   (B)   Installation of all water lines from any premise to the main water
lines of the town shall be the responsibility of the premises owner.
Maintenance of all service lines from the meter to the premises shall be the
responsibility of the owner. The Town Public Utilities Authority shall maintain
all meters and service lines from the meter to the main lines.
   (C)   Installation of all service lines and meters shall be conducted only
by plumbers duly licensed by the state and the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-22) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 UTILITY CUSTOMER TO INSTALL AND MAINTAIN SERVICE LINE; SHUTOFF VALVE
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each consumer of water furnished by the town shall lay his or her own
pipeline from the premises to the property line for the purpose of conveying
water to such point on his or her premises as he or she may desire. He or she
shall thereafter be required to keep the same in good repair and sanitary
condition.
   (B)   All service lines to be installed after the effective date of this
chapter shall include a master shutoff valve between the meter and the premise.
When any premise has had water service discontinued for 30 days or more, water
service shall not be restored until a master shutoff valve has been installed
as provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 20-23) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO PREMISES SERVED BY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Consumers taking water from the town shall, at all reasonable hours,
grant any person authorized by the Town Board or Utilities Authority free
access to all parts of the premises to which water is delivered, for the
purpose of inspection and examination of fixtures or to read the meters.
   (B)   Occupied premises that are not accessible shall be required to make
said premises accessible and shall be assessed a fee of $10 per visit when
accessibility is denied.
(Prior Code, § 20-24)
§ 51.06 RIGHT TO TURN OFF WATER IN MAINS; UTILITIES AUTHORITY NOT LIABLE FOR
DAMAGES.
   (A)   The Utilities Authority reserves the right to turn off the water in
its mains at any time, for the purpose of making repairs or in the event of a
breakdown in equipment.
   (B)   All persons taking water from the mains shall do so at their own risk,
and the Utilities Authority shall not be held responsible for any accident or
damage of any kind or character occasioned by pressure in the water mains, the
shutting off of the water, or failure to keep water under pressure in the
mains.
(Prior Code, § 20-25)
§ 51.07 TAMPERING WITH OR INJURING WATERWORKS PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface, or in any way
tamper with any hydrant, meter, valve, pipeline, or any part of the waterworks
system, or to turn the water off or on from any main at any time or place,
unless he or she is duly authorized so to do by the Town Board.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, except duly authorized
officers and employees of the town, to scale, climb, or go upon the town’s
water tower.
(Prior Code, § 20-26) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 USE OF WATER WELLS FOR DOMESTIC PURPOSES.
   No person shall have the right to drill any water well within the limits of
the town for any purpose other than for domestic purposes; provided, however:
   (A)   In the event a person shall desire to drill a water well for purposes
other than domestic purposes and the Town Public Utilities Authority is
unwilling or unable for reason to provide said person a supply of water
commensurate with the needs of that person, said person may make application
for the drilling and use of a water well for purposes other than domestic
purposes and upon a showing to the Trustees of the Town Public Utilities
Authority that the drilling and use of said water well will not jeopardize or
otherwise interfere with the water supply of the Town Public Utilities
Authority, said application may, in the discretion of the Trustees, be granted;
and
   (B)   At such time as the Utilities Authority is able and willing to provide
said person water, the Authority may require said person to tie in to the water
main of the Authority and to plug and abandon the well used by said person.
(Prior Code, § 20-27) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 USE OF WATER FROM WATER MAINS.
   No person shall have the right to drill a water well for domestic use except
when the town main lines are not available to said person, in which event said
person shall have the right to drill and use a water well for domestic purposes
only after proper application has been made, approved, and a permit for the use
thereof has been issued.
(Prior Code, § 20-28) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 DOMESTIC USE.
   DOMESTIC USE means the use of water by a natural individual or by a family
or household for household purposes, for farm and domestic animals up to the
normal grazing capacity of the land, and for the irrigation of the land not
exceeding the total of three acres in areas for the growing of gardens,
orchards, and lawns.
(Prior Code, § 20-29)
§ 51.11 USE OF WATER INTERCONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as herein otherwise provided, water from privately owned wells
within the town shall be used only for domestic purposes on the premises where
the well is located, and there shall be no interconnection thereto or extension
thereof. In the case of wells in use prior to the effective date of this
chapter, use of the water therefrom may be continued to the same extent and for
the same purposes, but such uses shall not be extended or increased.
   (B)   No domestic water well shall be utilized to fill a natural or human-
made earthen basin or to maintain water in the same, nor shall the water well
be used for recreational purposes or any purposes which may constitute waste.
(Prior Code, § 20-30) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 AUTHORITY OF GROUND WATER WITHIN THE TOWN LIES WITH TOWN BOARD.
   No privately owned water well within the town shall hereafter be drilled to,
nor shall any existing well hereafter be deepened to, nor any privately owned
well be completed at such depth as will interfere or allow water to be taken
and produced from the water producing sands from which the town obtains its
municipal water supply, except in those instances and in those areas where
water is not available to the prospective user from the town’s regular system.
(Prior Code, § 20-31) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13 WATER WELL PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person who otherwise qualifies for the drilling and use of water
well within the town may apply in writing to the Town Clerk/Treasurer for a
permit for the use of said water well. Said person shall, upon making said
application, pay to the Town Clerk/Treasurer a permit fee of $10. An authorized
officer of the town shall review said application to determine if the proposed
water well complies with the ordinances of the town, the laws of the state, and
the regulations of the State Health Department. Said authorized officer may
require the applicant to furnish in writing any additional information required
to make said determination. Upon approval of said application by the Board of
Trustees, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a permit for the drilling and
use of said water well.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued by the Town Clerk/Treasurer to any person,
firm, or corporation unless such person, firm, or corporation has been duly
licensed by the appropriate agency of the state. Furthermore, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation not so licensed to drill any well
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-32) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of any ordinance,
code, or standard adopted by this chapter, or maintains or permits to continue
any public nuisance as defined by this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as provided
in §
10.99. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-70)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Town to make and maintain sewer connection
   
52.02   Mandatory sewer connections
   
52.03   Private sewage disposal facilities
Industrial Wastes
   
52.15   Definitions
   
52.16   Power to enter property
   
52.17   Authority to disconnect service
   
52.18   Prohibited discharges
   
52.19   Impairment of facilities
   
52.20   Approving authority review and approval
   
52.21   Sampling and testing
   
52.22   Permits
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 TOWN TO MAKE AND MAINTAIN SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The Town Public Utilities Authority shall make, inspect, and maintain
all extensions or additions to its main sewer lines. It shall be unlawful for
any person, other than a duly authorized agent or employee of the town to make
a connection to any sewer line belonging to, or controlled by, the Town Public
Utilities Authority.
   (B)   Installation and maintenance of all service lines and lateral lines
from the point where such lines connect with the sewer main to the premise
being served shall be the responsibility of the owner of the premises being
served; provided, however, that all installation and maintenance shall be
provided only by plumbers duly licensed by the state and the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-40) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings, or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is located a
public sanitary sewer of the town, are hereby required, at their own expense,
to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to have such facilities
connected directly with the proper public sewer within 60 days after 300 feet
of the property line. Any lift station required for proper connection to the
public sewer shall be installed and maintained by the person in charge of the
premises.
   (B)   Said notice in division (A) above shall be served by any member of the
Town Public Utilities Authority or other duly authorized agent by delivering a
true and correct copy to the property owner, or leaving the same at his or her
usual place of residence with a member of his or her family over the age of 15
years, or if such owner cannot be found, by posting a copy of such notice at
the front entrance of the building involved.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with the terms
of this section after having been notified so to do as provided herein shall be
guilty of an offense, and each 24-hour period thereafter shall constitute a
separate offense. In the event of a continuous violation of this section by any
property owner, the Town Public Utilities Authority shall discontinue the
furnishing of water to such property owner until such time as a proper sewer
connection has been made.
(Prior Code, § 20-41) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided in this section, it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct or maintain any privy vault, septic tank, cesspool,
or other facility intended to be used for the disposal of sewage within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Where a connection to a public sanitary sewer line is not required
under the provisions of §
52.02, a private septic tank or cesspool, or other facility for sewage
disposal, may be constructed and maintained under the rules and regulations of
the town and County Health Officer and in compliance with the recommendations
and requirements of the State Department of Public Health. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   The owner of private septic tanks or cesspools shall operate and
maintain the same in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town,
and no statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer of
the town, county, or state.
   (D)   At such time as a public sewer become available to a property served
by a septic tank or cesspool, a direct connection shall be made to such public
sewer in compliance with §
52.02, and the septic tank or cesspool shall immediately be abandoned and
filled with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 20-42) Penalty, see §
52.99
INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 52.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade, or business or from the development of any natural
resource or any mixture of the waste with water or normal wastewater, or
distinct from normal wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE. The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the municipal sewage system.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-carried waste from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
any ground, surface, or storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. Includes all facilities for collection, pumping,
treating, and disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed, in strength, the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
(Prior Code, § 11-1)
§ 52.16 POWER TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   Officially designated municipal representatives and other duly authorized
municipal employees bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled
to enter any public or private property, at any reasonable time, for the
purpose of enforcing this subchapter. Anyone acting under this authority shall
observe the rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security, and
fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 11-2) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   The town may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and disconnect
an industrial customer from the system when:
   (A)   Acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment process are
released to the sewer, causing rapid deterioration of these structures or
interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
   (B)   A governmental agency informs the town that the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to
a watercourse and it is found that the customer is delivering wastewater to the
municipal system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment that
is not provided as normal domestic treatment; or
   (C)   The industrial customer:
      (1)   Discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in violation of
the permit issued by the approving governmental authority;
      (2)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
      (3)   Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services
when due; or
      (4)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 11-3)
§ 52.18 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any waste which by itself
or by interaction with other wastes:
      (1)   Injures or interferes with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitutes a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Constitutes a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater
treatment plant effluent.
   (B)   No person may discharge any wastewater, industrial waste, or polluted
liquids on public or private property adjacent to any area within the
jurisdiction of the town unless authorized by the State Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 11-10) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 IMPAIRMENT OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance capable of
causing:
      (1)   Obstruction to the flow in sewers;
      (2)   Interference with the operation of treatment processes or
facilities; or
      (3)   Excessive loading of treatment facilities.
   (B)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance that may:
      (1)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as to
clog the sewers;
      (2)   Overload skimming and grease handling equipment;
      (3)   Pass to the receiving waters without being effectively treated by
normal wastewater treatment processes, due to the non-amenability of the
substance to bacterial action; or
      (4)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
   (C)   No person may discharge any substance into public sewers which:
      (1)   Is not amenable to treatment or reduction by the process and
facilities employed; or
      (2)   Is amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (D)   The approving authority shall regulate the flow and concentration of
slugs when they may:
      (1)   Impair the treatment process;
      (2)   Cause damage to collection facilities;
      (3)   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
      (4)   Render the waste unfit for stream disposal or industrial use.
   (E)   No person may discharge into public sewers any viscous substances in
sufficient quantity or size which may violate division (A) above, including,
but not limited to:
      (1)   Ashes;
      (2)   Cinders;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Mud;
      (5)   Straw;
      (6)   Metal;
      (7)   Shavings;
      (8)   Glass;
      (9)   Rags;
      (10)   Feathers;
      (11)   Tar;
      (12)   Plastics;
      (13)   Wood;
      (14)   Unground garbage;
      (15)   Whole blood;
      (16)   Paunch manure;
      (17)   Hair and fleshing;
      (18)   Entrails;
      (19)   Paper products, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (20)   Slops;
      (21)   Chemical residues;
      (22)   Paint residues; or
      (23)   Bulk solids.
(Prior Code, § 11-11) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 APPROVING AUTHORITY REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   If pretreatment or control is required, the approving authority shall
review and approve design and installation of equipment and process. Standards
for review shall be consistent with the standards adopted by the State
Department of Health.
   (B)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring pretreatment, flow-
equalizing, or other facilities shall provide and maintain the facilities in
effective operating condition at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 11-12) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   Sampling shall be conducted in accordance with the standard methods
employed by the State Department of Health.
   (B)   Examination and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes
required by this subchapter shall be:
      (1)   Conducted in accordance with the latest edition of State Health
Department Standards; and
      (2)   Determined from suitable samples taken at the control manhole
provided, or other control point authorized by the approving authority.
   (C)   The town is entitled to select the time of sampling, at its sole
discretion, so long as annual samples (minimum) are taken.
(Prior Code, § 11-13) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 PERMITS.
   (A)   The town may grant a discharge permit, provided that the applicant:
      (1)   Submits an application within 180 days after the effective date of
this subchapter;
      (2)   Secures approval of plans and specifications for pretreatment
facilities when required; and
      (3)   Has complied with all requirements for agreements or arrangements
including, but not limited to, provisions for:
         (a)   Payment of reasonable industrial waste and wastewater service
charges;
         (b)   Installation and operation of pretreatment facilities; and
         (c)   Sampling and analysis to determine quantity and strength.
      (4)   Provides a sampling point subject to the provisions of this
subchapter and approval of the approving authority.
   (B)   A person applying for a new discharge shall:
      (1)   Meet all conditions of division (A) above; and
      (2)   Secure a permit prior to discharging any waste.
(Prior Code, § 11-14)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
52.01 through
52.03 or of any ordinance, code, or standard adopted by §§
52.01 through
52.03, or maintains or permits to continue any public nuisance as defined by §§
52.01 through
52.03, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided in §
10.99. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-70)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
52.15 through
52.22 or continues any violation beyond a time limit designated in §§
52.15 through
52.22 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day on which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 11-25)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   Collection and disposal declared to be a municipal function
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Accumulation nuisance; containers
   
53.05   Burning of solid waste
   
53.06   Who may remove solid waste
   
53.07   Machine grinding
   
53.08   Disposition of animal carcasses
   
53.09   Collection of rates and charges
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL DECLARED TO BE A MUNICIPAL FUNCTION.
   The collection and disposal of garbage, trash, and refuse is hereby declared
to be a municipal function of the town as a protection of the public health.
The police powers of the town shall be invoked when necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter. In addition, the town may collect and dispose of
refuse, as it deems necessary, provided that such disposal shall be by an
approved method of incineration (no open burning) or by landfill and daily
cover.
(Prior Code, § 20-48) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter and it is hereby declared to be the policy
of the town, pursuant to the authority of the State Solid Waste Management Act
(27A O.S. §§ 2-10-101 et seq.), to regulate the collection and disposal of
solid wastes in a manner that will protect the public health and welfare,
prevent air and water pollution, prevent the spread of disease and the creation
of nuisances, conserve the natural resources, and enhance and preserve the
beauty and quality of the town’s environment.
(Prior Code, § 20-49)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, firm, partnership,
association, trust, or other legal entity, however constituted or organized.
   REFUSE. Tree trimming, junked building materials and roofing materials,
manufacturing waste, rocks, dirt, and other waste material not defined as
“solid waste” or “trash.”
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid or semi-
solid form, including, but not limited to, garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes, or
incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition wastes,
construction wastes, solid or semisolid commercial and industrial wastes, and
hazardous wastes (including explosives, pathological wastes, chemical wastes,
herbicides, and pesticide wastes).
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The entire process of storage, collection,
transportation, processing, and burying solid wastes at or in a site approved
by the State Department of Health.
   TRASH. Paper, rags, containers of paper, tin cans, yard and house sweepings,
and all other household waste, but not tree trimmings, building and
manufacturing waste sewage and rocks, raw dirt, rainwater, and other liquid
refuse properly disposable through the sanitary sewers of the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-50)
§ 53.04 ACCUMULATION NUISANCE; CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person in charge of any lot or piece of ground
to allow solid waste to accumulate thereon, so as to cause an offensive odor to
be emitted there from or to become injurious or dangerous to the health of the
neighborhood or an inhabitant thereof. Any such condition is hereby declared a
violation of this chapter and punishable as such, and in addition is declared
to be a nuisance and may be abated as such.
   (B)   Any person constructing any structure within said town shall, prior to
construction on any premises in said town, furnish and place on said premises a
container of suitable size and design to contain all solid waste which might,
by the winds or elements, be distributed and blown from the premises. Said
containers shall be used by the person concerned at all times to keep the
premises from becoming unsightly with solid waste.
   (C)   Any person who fails to keep the premises on which any structure is
being built or installed free from solid waste and who allows said waste to
blow or be carried from the premises to adjoining or other property or into the
town streets shall be deemed guilty of causing a nuisance and shall be subject
to the penalties in this code of ordinances prescribed therefor.
   (D)   All persons in charge of any premises or piece of ground shall deposit
for collection all solid waste in containers provided by the town or its
contract agent. In the event the town or its contract agent does not provide
such containers, all persons in charge of any premises or property in the town
shall place all solid waste in watertight metallic or plastic cans or
containers of sufficient size to hold not less than 20 nor more than 32 gallons
and have close fitting covers and handles on the sides. If the town or its
contract disposal agent does not furnish receptacles on the public right-of-way
for the collection of solid wastes on a block basis, then the cans or
containers herein required shall be placed by the person in charge of said
premises or piece of ground on the alley or at some convenient place on the
lot, premises, or piece of ground so as to provide access thereto by a
collector.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to deposit for collection or other
purpose any solid waste on any street, alley, or public packing area, or on any
private property, unless the same is deposited in cans or containers as
provided in division (D) above. If the town or its contract solid waste
disposal agent furnishes or otherwise provides bulk metal receptacles or
containers on the public rights-of-way for use by persons residing or doing
business on a block for which said receptacles or containers are furnished or
provided, persons in charge of premises, lots, or pieces of ground within the
town shall transfer the solid waste accumulated on their own premises and
contained in receptacles or containers, as prescribed in division (D) above, to
the block containers furnished or provided by the town or its solid waste
disposal contract agent.
   (F)   Containers used for holding combustible or non-combustible wastes
shall be maintained in good condition. Any waste container that does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter, that may have ragged or sharp edges
or may have any other defect liable to hamper or injure the person collecting
the contents thereof, must be promptly replaced by a proper receptacle upon
receipt of notice to that effect from the collector. If not so replaced within
ten days after receipt of such notice, the nonconforming or defective
containers may be collected and disposed of by said collector.
(Prior Code, § 20-51) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 BURNING OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to start or maintain any fire or
cause any fire to be started or maintained for the purpose of burning or
incinerating any solid waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or install, within any building in
the town, any incinerator designed to burn solid wastes.
(Prior Code, § 20-52) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 WHO MAY REMOVE SOLID WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except under contract as is hereinafter
provided for, to remove, or cause to be removed, any solid waste materials from
any garbage can or other receptacle used for the deposit of same, or to
transport, haul, carry, or otherwise move over any of the streets, alleys, or
other public ways, any solid waste materials.
(Prior Code, § 20-53) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 MACHINE GRINDING.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or to install within any retail store or
other commercial or industrial establishment within the town any mechanical or
power-driven device or machine for the grinding of solid waste materials
designed to be introduced into the sewer system of said town, unless the same
has been approved by the Town Board of Trustees, to ensure that such waste will
not block or otherwise interfere with the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 20-54) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 DISPOSITION OF ANIMAL CARCASSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury or cause to be buried the
carcass of any dead animal at any place within the town. The town shall not be
responsible for the disposition of dead animals.
(Prior Code, § 20-55) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 COLLECTION OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   To facilitate the collection of the solid waste rates and charges
levied and assessed in this chapter, the Clerk/Treasurer or other designated
agent of the town is hereby further directed to include said charges on the
same bill by which the town bills for and collects for its sewer, water, or
other services, to the end that the rates and charges herein levied shall be
paid and collected by the town at the same time. The rates and charges levied
shall be shown on said bill as a separate and distinct item of charge.
   (B)   In the event any owner, occupant, or person in charge of any user unit
against whom a charge has been herein levied and assessed fails or otherwise
refuses to pay said charge, the Clerk/Treasurer or other person responsible, is
hereby directed to terminate all services rendered thereto, including water
services, when said account has been delinquent for a period of 30 days. No
services thus terminated shall be reconnected or renewed until such time as all
charges have been paid in full to the then current date. In addition, the
Clerk/Treasurer is further directed to institute any appropriate legal action
to collect said delinquency if the same is not paid after the expiration of 60
days.
(Prior Code, § 20-56)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of any ordinance,
code, or standard adopted by this chapter, or maintains or permits to continue
any public nuisance as defined by this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as provided
for in §
10.99. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-70)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   MOVING REGULATIONS
      
73.   STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
      
74.   IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
      
75.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
76.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State Highway Traffic Safety Code adopted
   
70.02   Town Board may adopt and enforce regulations
   
70.03   Citation tags; failure to comply
   
70.04   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.05   Duties of police officers and firefighters
   
70.06   Stopped school bus
   
70.07   Accident reports; leaving an accident scene
   
70.08   Pedestrians
   
70.09   Obedience to title
   
70.10   Public officials and employees
   
70.11   Necessity of signs
   
70.12   Equipment and licensing of vehicles
   
70.13   Inspection of vehicles
   
70.14   Motorcycles
   
70.15   Construction zones
   
70.16   Persons working on streets
   
70.17   Riding or clinging to vehicles
   
70.18   Dangerous objects in streets
   
70.19   Funerals
   
70.20   Eluding a police officer
Vehicle Equipment Prohibitions
   
70.35   Injurious or obstructive vehicles or objects
   
70.36   Size and weight of vehicles; truck routes
   
70.37   Use of safety belts required
Motor Vehicle Security Verification
   
70.50   Security verification required; exemptions
   
70.51   Definitions
   
70.52   Possession of security verification form while operating or using
certain vehicles required
   
70.53   Failure to maintain security an offense
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The State Highway Traffic Safety Code (47 O.S., as amended and
supplemented) is hereby adopted and incorporated in the code of ordinances of
the town, as if set out at length herein, for the purposes of establishing
locally appropriate rules and regulations for the control of traffic within
said municipality.
   (B)   The definitions of words used in this title shall be the same as those
definitions in 47 O.S. §§ 1-130 through 1-147 (as amended).
(Prior Code, § 22-1)
§ 70.02 TOWN BOARD MAY ADOPT AND ENFORCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby empowered to adopt and enforce
regulations necessary to make the provisions of this title and any other
traffic or related ordinances of the town, effective, and to adopt and enforce
temporary regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions.
   (B)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of the Chief of Police, any police officer, firefighter, or
any other authorized municipal employee.
(Prior Code, § 22-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 CITATION TAGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Police officers are hereby authorized to give notice to persons
violating provisions of this title by delivering citation tags to violators or,
in cases where vehicles without drivers are parked or stopped in violation of
this title, by affixing such tags to the vehicles by means of which the
violation occurred. Such citation tags shall indicate briefly the charge shall
bear the registration number of the vehicle, and shall direct the violator to
present the tag at the police station or other designated place within five
days, or such other reasonable time as may be specified thereon. Nothing in
this section shall abridge the power to arrest any violator, to take him or her
into custody, or to file a complaint against him or her at any time.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may require that police officers use
serially numbered citation tags furnished by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, and said
Town Board may also regulate the use and handling of citation tags.
   (C)   If a violator of any provision of this title who has been given a
citation tag as provided in division (A) above fails to appear, in accordance
with the instructions of such tag, the Chief of Police or his or her authorized
agent shall send a letter or other written notice to the owner of the vehicle
involved, informing him or her of the violation, warning him or her to appear
and directing that, in the event such letter or notice is disregarded for a
period of five days, a complaint will be filed and a warrant of arrest issued;
provided, that nothing in this section shall abridge the power to file a
complaint against him or her prior to the expiration of such time.
   (D)   In the event any person fails to comply with a citation tag given to
such person, or attached to a vehicle, the Chief of Police shall have a
complaint entered against such person before the Municipal Judge, and said
Judge shall issue a warrant for his or her arrest.
(Prior Code, § 22-7)
§ 70.04 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of a law
or ordinance, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm,
may exercise the following privileges:
      (1)   Park or stand (irrespective of the provisions of this title);
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or sign (slowing down as may be
necessary for safe operation);
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   (B)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of audible and/or
visual signals, except that an authorized emergency vehicle, operated as a
police vehicle, need not be equipped with, or display, a red light visible from
the front of the vehicle.
   (C)   Upon the immediate approach of any authorized emergency vehicle making
required use of audible and/or visual signals, or of a police vehicle properly
and lawfully making use of an audible signal only, the driver of every other
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway
clear of any intersection, or shall clear the roadway in the safest possible
manner, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (D)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from
the consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 22-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, applicable to traffic in
said municipality, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents, to cooperate with other municipal officials in the administration of
the traffic laws and in developing ways to improve traffic conditions, and to
carry out those duties specifically imposed upon said officers by this title
and any other traffic or related ordinances of said municipality.
   (B)   The Chief of Police and his or her assistants are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic by voice, hand, or signal, in conformance with traffic laws
and ordinances. In the event of a fire, other emergency, or to expedite traffic
or safeguard pedestrians, such officers may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   (C)   Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist the
police in directing traffic.
(Prior Code, § 22-9)
§ 70.06 STOPPED SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   No person shall pass any school bus (as defined by state law) when
such bus is stopped for the purposes of discharging or taking on passengers and
is displaying flashing red lights, as required by state law.
   (B)   All persons shall stop upon approaching a stopped school bus (as
described in division (A) above), regardless of the direction of said approach.
(Prior Code, § 22-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 ACCIDENT REPORTS; LEAVING AN ACCIDENT SCENE.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in bodily injury to, or death of, any person, or damage to
any vehicle or other property to an apparent extent of more than $50, shall, as
soon as practicable, report such accident to the Chief of Police or to the
Police Department.
      (2)   Making out a written report of the accident in the Police
Department, as soon as practicable after the accident (to be forwarded to the
State Department of Public Safety in accordance with the law), shall be deemed
compliance with this section.
   (B)   Leaving the scene of an accident, as defined by current state law,
shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 22-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Application. Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals,
but, at all other places, shall be granted those rights and be subject to those
restrictions in this section.
(Prior Code, § 22-90)
   (B)   Pedestrians.
      (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if
need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave any place of safety and walk or
run into the path of a vehicle.
      (3)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 22-91)
   (C)   Drivers to exercise due care. Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B)
above, every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian upon any roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn
when necessary, and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child
or confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 22-92)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 OBEDIENCE TO TITLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to authorize
or knowingly to permit any vehicle registered in his or her name to be driven
or be parked in violation of any provisions of this title.
   (B)   The parent or guardian of any child or ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this title.
(Prior Code, § 22-110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States Government, and any state,
county, municipal, or other governmental unit or agency, as well as to other
vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by
state laws.
   (B)   This title shall not apply to the military forces of the United States
and organizations of the National Guard when performing military duty.
(Prior Code, § 22-111) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   (A)   No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinary observant person.
   (B)   Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required,
such section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 22-112)
§ 70.12 EQUIPMENT AND LICENSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which is not equipped as
required by law upon any street within the town. It shall also be unlawful to
fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, use it in a manner
prohibited by law, or to operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by
law upon any street within said town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of
the town unless such vehicle is licensed and displays a valid license plate
thereon, as required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 22-113) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
the streets of the town at any time, with reasonable cause, to determine
whether it is safe, properly equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper
adjustment and repair.
(Prior Code, § 22-114)
§ 70.14 MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter, or motor bicycle shall ride
only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereon and shall not carry
any other person, nor shall any other person ride on the vehicle, unless it is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event, a passenger may ride
only upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 22-115) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   Municipal personnel, contractors, or utility companies, while
repairing or improving the streets of the town, or when installing, improving,
or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized, subject to control by the Town Board of Trustees, to close any
street, or section thereof, to traffic.
   (B)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above and traffic control devices or barricades have been erected,
it shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle under, over, around,
or through such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter
the closed area (except that the provisions of this division (B) shall not
apply to persons while engaged in such construction, maintenance, and repair,
to persons entering therein for the protection of lives or property or to
persons having their places of residence or business within such closed area,
who may travel through such area at their own risk).
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street, utility
line, or facility is being performed, and the street is not closed to traffic
in accordance with this section, the municipal personnel, contractor, or
utility company concerned shall erect warning devices for the public. Every
person using such street shall obey such warning devices.
(Prior Code, § 22-116) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS.
   (A)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title,
except those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall
not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles,
and other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance, or
repair of public utilities; provided that all highway and public utility
operations shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices, or
flaggers.
   (B)   However, the provisions of this title shall apply to such persons and
vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(Prior Code, § 22-117)
§ 70.17 RIDING OR CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride upon any vehicle or portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or persons riding within
truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
   (B)   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or
toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 22-118) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 DANGEROUS OBJECTS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, cause to be placed, or let
fall and remain, in or upon any street, any scrap iron, nail, tack, glass,
stick, or other thing which is likely to injure persons, damage property, or
render a street unsafe for traffic.
(Prior Code, § 22-119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 FUNERALS.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, § 22-120) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 ELUDING A POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any operator of a motor vehicle who
has received a visual and/or an audible signal (red light and/or siren) from a
police officer driving a motor vehicle, with insignia showing the same to be an
official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car, directing the operator to
bring his or her vehicle to a stop, to willfully increase his or her speed or
extinguish his or her lights in an attempt to elude such police officer, to
willfully attempt, in any other manner, to elude the police officer, or to
elude such police officer.
(Prior Code, § 22-121) Penalty, see §
70.99
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT PROHIBITIONS
§ 70.35 INJURIOUS OR OBSTRUCTIVE VEHICLES OR OBJECTS.
   (A)   No vehicle or object which injures, or is likely to injure, any street
within the town shall be driven or moved on any street within said
municipality.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle which is in such condition, so
constructed, or so loaded as to cause, or be likely to cause, a delay in
traffic or constitute a hazard to persons or property, without having obtained
a permit from the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 22-35) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES; TRUCK ROUTES.
   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle, the width,
height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by state laws,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority. The Town Board of
Trustees may prescribe routes through the municipality for the use of trucks in
general or trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles, which are not
ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the town. The Town Board
of Trustees shall see that appropriate and adequate signs are placed along such
routes so that drivers of such vehicles may follow the routes. When such signs
are erected and in place, the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a
route has been so prescribed, while passing through the town, shall keep on
such route and shall not deviate therefrom, except in case of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 22-36) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 USE OF SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
this state shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to 49
C.F.R. § 571.208.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PASSENGER CAR shall mean vehicle as
defined in 47 O.S. § 1102. PASSENGER CAR shall include the passenger
compartment of pickups, vans, minivans, and sport utility vehicles. PASSENGER
CAR shall not include trucks, truck-tractors, recreational vehicles,
motorcycles, or motorized bicycles. PASSENGER CAR shall not include a vehicle
used primarily for farm use which is registered and licensed pursuant to the
provisions of 47 O.S. § 1134.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any person who possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in this state that the person is unable
to wear a safety seat belt system for medical reasons. Provided, the issuance
of such verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor
shall such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or
otherwise, to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety
belt system.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle while
performing official duties as a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
   (E)   No law enforcement officer shall make routine stops of motorists for
the purpose of enforcing this section.
(Prior Code, § 22-37) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTOR VEHICLE SECURITY VERIFICATION
§ 70.50 SECURITY VERIFICATION REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating
said vehicle within the town’s boundaries, shall carry in such vehicle at all
times a current owner’s security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been issued by the State Department of Public Safety,
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by said collision.
   (B)   The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or operator’s
security form or any equivalent form from the State Department of Public Safety
during operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such
form for vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol, or logo of the business,
corporation, or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law, being 47 O.S. §§ 7-600 et seq., according to records
of the State Department of Public Safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-
insurance, or fleet policy;
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized (or operation, under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, or the State Corporation Commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer.
(Prior Code, § 22-100) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in 47
O.S. Article VI, Chapter 7.
   OPERATOR’S POLICY. Shall insure the named person against loss from the
liability imposed upon him or her by law for damages arising out of the
operation or use by him or her of any motor vehicle not owned by him or her,
subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner’s policy.
   OWNER’S POLICY.
      (1)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      (2)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in division (3) below of this definition, using an insured
vehicle with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against
loss from the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, operation, or use of such vehicle;
      (3)   May provide for exclusions from coverage with existing laws; and
      (4)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
   SECURITY.
      (1)   A policy or bond meeting the requirement of 47 O.S. § 7-204;
      (2)   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
      (3)   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 O.S. § 7-503,
having the equivalency of limits required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits or bond.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the State Board for property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
Compulsory Insurance Law of the state.
(Prior Code, § 22-101)
§ 70.52 POSSESSION OF SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM WHILE OPERATING OR USING
CERTAIN VEHICLES REQUIRED.
   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall, while
operating or using such vehicle within the town’s boundaries, carry either an
operator’s or an owner’s security verification form issued by a carrier,
providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon, or an equivalent
form issued by the Department of Public Safety, reflecting liability coverage.
(Prior Code, § 22-102) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.53 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN SECURITY AN OFFENSE.
   (A)   Any owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the State Department of Public Safety upon request of any peace officer of the
Town Police Department shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   (C)   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the State
Department of Public Safety reflecting this liability coverage for such person
was in force at the time of the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal
of such charge.
   (D)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture, or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public Safety within
ten days reflecting the action taken by the court.
(Prior Code, § 22-103) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
title, performs any unlawful act as defined in this title, or fails to perform
any act required in this title shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 22-135)
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
70.37 shall be punished by a fine of $10 and shall pay court costs of $10.
(Prior Code, § 22-37)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Installation of traffic control devices
   
71.02   Specifications for traffic control devices
   
71.03   Turn signs and indicators
   
71.04   Designation and marking of one-way streets
   
71.05   Marking of traffic lanes
   
71.06   Designation and marking of crosswalks
   
71.07   Unauthorized signs or devices
   
71.08   Classification of streets
§ 71.01 INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall have traffic control signs, signals, and
devices placed and maintained, when and as required under the ordinances of the
town to make the provisions of such ordinance effective.
(Prior Code, § 22-45)
§ 71.02 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   “The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices,” Eleventh Edition,
published 2023, as approved by the Federal Highway Administrator and as adopted
by the State Department of Transportation, is adopted and incorporated as
currently approved, or as subsequently amended.
   (B)   All traffic control signs, signals, and devices and other highway and
street markings shall conform to the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices” as approved by the Federal Highway Administrator and as adopted by the
State Department of Transportation. All signs and signals required hereunder
for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type
and location throughout the municipality. All traffic control devices so
erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter shall be
official traffic control devices.
(Prior Code, § 22-46)
§ 71.03 TURN SIGNS AND INDICATORS.
   (A)   The Town Board Trustees is hereby authorized to determine those
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-
turn and shall have placed proper signs at such intersections. The making of
such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at
other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on said signs.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected, indicating that no right, left,
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
   (C)   Unless otherwise indicated by such signs, a right turn on red or stop
shall be permitted after the vehicle has come to a complete stop.
(Prior Code, § 22-47) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Whenever the Town Board of Trustees designates any street, alley, or part
thereof as a one-way street or alley, said Town Board shall have signs placed,
giving notice thereof. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 22-48)
§ 71.05 MARKING OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to have traffic lanes
marked upon the roadway of any street where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
   (B)   Where traffic lanes have been marked, is shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of such lanes, except when lawfully passing another vehicle,
preparing to make a lawful turning movement or as otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 22-49) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF CROSSWALKS.
   The Town Board of Trustees shall have the authority to designate, by
appropriate devices or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at
intersections or other places where, in its opinion, there is particular danger
to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 22-50)
§ 71.07 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS OR DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display, upon or in view of any
highway, an unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad
sign or signal, which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, which
projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway, any traffic sign, signal, or device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the placement, upon
private property, of signs giving useful directional information and of a type
that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and the Town Board is hereby empowered to
remove the same, or cause it to be removed.
(Prior Code, § 22-51) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may adopt, by resolution, a street
classification system for the town. Whenever such a system is adopted, it shall
be the duty of said Town Board to have stop signs placed and maintained, or if
deemed more appropriate at any intersection, yield signs, on each and every
street involved in the implementation of the classification system (unless
traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by traffic control
signals).
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to determine and
designate intersections where a particular hazard exists and to determine:
      (1)   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more intersections to any
such intersection, in which event, it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at
every such place where a stop is required; or
      (2)   Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection, in which event, it shall cause to be
erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
   (C)   Every stop and yield sign shall be erected as near as practicable to
the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the nearest line of the
intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 22-52)
CHAPTER 72: MOVING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Speed regulations
   
72.02   Driving by unauthorized persons prohibited
   
72.03   Careless driving; reckless driving
   
72.04   Driving while ability impaired
   
72.05   Driving while under influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs; actual
physical control
   
72.06   Vehicles not to be driven on sidewalk
   
72.07   Following too closely
   
72.08   Backing
   
72.09   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
72.10   Crossing fire hose
   
72.11   Obstruction of driver’s view
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on any street within the corporate
limits of the town at a speed greater or less than is reasonable or prudent
under the conditions then existing (including, among other things, the
conditions of the vehicle, roadway, weather, visibility, amount of traffic,
presence of pedestrians, and any obstruction of view).
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street at a speed greater
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (C)   No person shall drive any vehicle, except an authorized emergency
vehicle (as provided in this title), at a speed greater than:
      (1)   Twenty mph on any street adjacent to any school between 8:00 a.m.
and 4:00 p.m. on days when school is in session; and
      (2)   Twenty-five mph on other streets and on streets adjacent to schools
at other times than that specified in division (C)(1) above, unless otherwise
posted.
(Prior Code, § 22-6) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 DRIVING BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not have a valid driver’s
license, as required by state law, to operate a motor vehicle within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit an
unlicensed driver to operate a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to authorize, or
knowingly permit, any vehicle owned by him or her, or under his or her control,
to be driven upon any of the streets or highways of the town by any person who
is not authorized under the laws of the state to operate such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 22-12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 CARELESS DRIVING; RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle within the
corporate limits of the town in a careless, negligent, or reckless manner,
without regard for the safety of persons, property, or the lawful use of the
streets. Such person shall be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 22-13) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 DRIVING WHILE ABILITY IMPAIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle within the corporate
limits of the town in violation of the conditions outlined in 47 O.S. § 761-A,
as amended.
(Prior Code, § 22-14) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 DRIVING WHILE UNDER INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR DRUGS; ACTUAL
PHYSICAL CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle within the corporate
limits of the town in violation of the conditions outlined in 47 O.S. § 11-902,
as amended.
(Prior Code, § 22-15) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive upon any sidewalk or sidewalk
area, except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 22-16) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of both vehicles and
the traffic upon, and the condition of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 22-17) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same a greater distance
than is necessary to permit it to enter the immediately available proper
driving lane. No extended backing shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 22-18) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than when on official business, shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet, or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 22-122) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of any Fire Department,
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 22-123) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are, in the front seat, such a number of persons exceeding three as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 22-124) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provisions of §
72.05 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine not to exceed $200 plus costs and may be imprisoned for any
amount of time not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 22-14)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
72.06 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine not to exceed $200 plus costs and may be imprisoned for any
amount of time not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 22-15)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
72.05 or
72.06 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine not to exceed $200 plus costs and may be imprisoned for any
amount of time not to exceed 30 days. Each such violation is committed or
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable
as such.
(Prior Code, § 22-135)
CHAPTER 73: STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Section
   
73.01   Stopping or parking prohibited in specified places
   
73.02   Angle parking
   
73.03   Standing or parking close to curb; brakes
   
73.04   Parking on private property
   
73.05   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
73.06   Loading zones
   
73.07   Parking prohibited for trucks exceeding one ton
   
73.08   Jake brakes
§ 73.01 STOPPING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
a conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law, ordinance, the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, or in an emergency
situation, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On any sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of or obstructing any driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant (except in an officially marked
parking space);
      (5)   Within or on a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
      (7)   Near any street work or excavation, when stopping or parking would
obstruct traffic;
      (8)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street (double-parking or double-stopping);
      (9)   In any alley where less than ten feet of the roadway will be left
available for the movement of vehicular traffic; or
      (10)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to establish parking
time limits, and to prohibit parking on designated streets and parts of streets
by having appropriate signs placed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 22-65) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees shall determine upon what streets and parts
of streets angle parking shall be permitted and shall have such streets marked
or signed.
   (B)   On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle
parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the
curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings or outside of
the area enclosed by said markings.
(Prior Code, § 22-66) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB; BRAKES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to, and within 18
inches of, the right-hand curb; provided that every vehicle stopped or parked
upon the left-hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs,
shall be parked or stopped with the left-hand wheels parallel to, and within 18
inches of, the left-hand curb.
   (B)   Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 22-67) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or park a motor vehicle or a trailer
upon the posted private property of another, without first obtaining permission
from the person in charge of such property, except where said placing or
parking is involuntary.
   (B)   (1)   A landowner, or other person in charge of the land, may cause
any motor vehicle or trailer which is left on private properly after posted
hours to be removed and impounded by an appropriate wrecker service. The Police
Department or any police officer is also authorized to remove any unauthorized
vehicles from private property upon direction of the owner of the property or
persons in charge of the property.
      (2)   The town, any landowner, or person in charge of the property shall
not be liable for any damages which may occur to the trespassing vehicle or
trailer under the terms of this section while the same is trespassing, while it
is being removed from his or her property, or while it is in storage.
(Prior Code, § 22-68) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
   (B)   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
of giving a citation tag has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 22-69)
§ 73.06 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to determine the
location of passenger and freight curb loading zones, and shall have
appropriate signs placed, indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this section are applicable. By the same authority,
such loading zones may be changed or discontinued.
   (B)   When such a loading zone is established upon the request of any
person, firm, or corporation, the Town Board of Trustees shall not have signs
placed until the applicant has paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer an amount of
money estimated by said Town Board to be adequate to reimburse the town for all
costs of establishing and signing the same.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
(Prior Code, § 22-70) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 PARKING PROHIBITED FOR TRUCKS EXCEEDING ONE TON.
   All trucks, truck tractors, and trailers and other motor vehicles which
exceed a weight limit of one ton, except moving vans and rental trucks and
trailers during a reasonable period of time for loading and unloading, are
hereby prohibited from using the streets and alleys of the residential areas of
the town for parking purposes.
(Prior Code, § 22-71) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 JAKE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to decelerate
said motor vehicle in any manner that will cause said motor vehicle to create
any noise that may be annoying to any person within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 22-19) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Purpose and effect of impoundment
   
74.02   Place of impoundment
   
74.03   Duration of impoundment
   
74.04   Redemption and release of vehicles
   
74.05   Authority to impound vehicles
   
74.06   Causes for impoundment
§ 74.01 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed an enforcement procedure for protection of the public peace,
safety, welfare, and safeguarding of property, and shall be used generally for
the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and abatement of
public nuisances existing from traffic hazards, prevention and abatement of
public nuisances existing from traffic law violations, protection of the public
rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares in the town from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 22-25)
§ 74.02 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the nearest garage, or other place of safekeeping designated by
the Town Board, and shall not be removed to any other place.
(Prior Code, § 22-26) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided hereinafter, any vehicle impounded under the
provisions of this code of ordinances shall be stored and held safely until a
written order for its release, signed by the Chief of Police (or his or her
designated representative) has been issued.
   (B)   The written order for release shall be conditioned upon:
      (1)   Payment of all impoundment costs and accrued storage charges
assessed against the vehicle, by the person to whom the release is issued; and
      (2)   Payment of all fines and costs due the town because of traffic law
or other law violations involving the vehicle, or proper security posted for
said fine or law violation.
(Prior Code, § 22-27)
§ 74.04 REDEMPTION AND RELEASE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The person holding the written order for release shall be entitled to
obtain possession of the vehicle upon presentation of the order for release at
the place of impoundment, together with payment (or tender of payment) of all
impoundment costs and accrued storage charges due.
   (B)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer is hereby authorized to release vehicles
which have been impounded (and accept agreements and bonds to save the town
harmless by such release) to persons other than the registered owner of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Any party claiming an interest in an impounded vehicle shall submit
(by written instruments or other documents) to the Chief of Police proof of
compliance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Proof of interest;
      (2)   Agreement to save and hold harmless the town and all of its
employees; and
      (3)   Proof of financial responsibility showing the net worth of the
party seeking the vehicle to be in excess of $20,000 or a surety bond in an
amount no less than double the value of the vehicle sought to be released.
(Prior Code, § 22-28)
§ 74.05 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the town and members of the Municipal Police
Department are hereby authorized, within the limits set forth in this chapter,
to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an authorized
police officer, and in strict adherence to the procedures established in this
chapter and by other policies of the town.
(Prior Code, § 22-29)
§ 74.06 CAUSES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   If left unattended and improperly parked on a street or highway;
      (2)   If left unattended longer than 48 hours on the shoulder of any
highway; or
      (3)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
   (B)   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, causeway, or
within the structure of grade separation, may be impounded.
   (C)   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest, taken into custody, and detained by police under circumstances which
leave, or will leave, a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the
vehicle may be impounded.
   (D)   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley, or thoroughfare, and
so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic, shall be impounded.
   (E)   When any derelict vehicle is discovered by the Police Department to
have been parked upon any street in the town for a period of 72 hours or more,
the Police Department is authorized to impound the vehicle, and if the owner of
the vehicle may be ascertained by reasonable diligence, the owner shall be
notified of the action by the Police Department.
   (F)   A trespassing, unattended vehicle found may be impounded when the
required complaint has been properly made and filed. The owner or legal
occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking the
vehicle on the owner’s (or legal occupant’s) property. If the identity of the
person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed against
the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified and shall
allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of the
property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing. Upon filing of the
complaint by the property owner or legal occupant, and if there appears to be
proper cause to believe a violation has occurred, the Police Department shall
cause the vehicle to be impounded and placed in storage.
   (G)   Any unattended vehicle parked at the street curbing of any zone where
parking is prohibited, and where official signs are in place giving notice
thereof in violation of the prohibition, may be impounded.
   (H)   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire
escape, ladder, or exit, or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant, shall be
impounded.
   (I)   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection
shall be impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection, with the person in
charge of the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and
to the nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
   (J)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time, not exceeding eight hours, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identification in
the vehicle (or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars), the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of
impoundment and the registered owner of the vehicle notified of the location of
the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department. If the
registered owner is identified, located, and notified of the recovery of the
stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his or her own
arrangements for the removal of the vehicle within a period of 24 hours from
the time he or she is actually notified of its recovery. If the owner is unable
or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified, the vehicle may
be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 22-30)
CHAPTER 75: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
75.01   Traffic laws applicable to persons riding bicycles
   
75.02   Bicycle equipment
   
75.03   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
75.04   Riding on bicycles
Cross-reference:
   Clinging to a vehicle while bicycle riding, see §
70.17
   Recreational vehicle parks, see
Chapter 153
BICYCLES
§ 75.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring the rules of the road applicable to
vehicles, or by the ordinances of the town applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and to those
provisions of laws or ordinances which, by their nature, can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 22-80)
§ 75.02 BICYCLE EQUIPMENT.
   Every bicycle in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the front
which shall emit a white light visible from all distances up to 500 feet to the
front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall be visible
from all distances up to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 22-81) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left,
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 22-82) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at a time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (B)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a vehicle standing or proceeding in the same direction.
   (C)   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and not the roadway.
   (D)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (E)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or
building shall yield the right-of-way to all approaching pedestrians, and upon
entering a roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
such roadway.
   (F)   The Town Board of Trustees is authorized to have signs placed on any
trafficway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person. When such
signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
(Prior Code, § 22-83) Penalty, see, §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: RAILROADS
Section
   
76.01   Railroads to improve certain streets and alleys
   
76.02   Climbing on trains
   
76.03   Speed of trains
   
76.04   Loitering on railroad premises
   
76.05   Blocking of streets by trains
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 RAILROADS TO IMPROVE CERTAIN STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   When a railway occupies or crosses any portion of a street with its
tracks either on or adjacent thereto, the railroad company shall improve as
much of the street as is occupied by its tracks and two feet on either side
thereof, in a manner satisfactory to the Town Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever a railroad company crosses or occupies an alley with its
tracks, such company shall improve, drain, grade, and/or pave such alley, in
order to eliminate problems created by the presence of its tracks.
   (C)   When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of 100
feet (measuring from inside rail to inside rail), the railroad company shall
grade, drain, and curb the street area between its tracks and surface, in a
manner satisfactory to the Town Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in
good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 23-1) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.02 CLIMBING ON TRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any
manner attach himself or herself to any train or railroad car while such is in
motion within the town unless such person is acting in the line of duty.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to board any train or railroad car
(passenger, freight, or other) without a proper ticket or the permission of the
person in charge of the train or railroad car, or not in the line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 23-2) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.03 SPEED OF TRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a train or railroad
car(s) at a speed greater than 25 mph within the corporate boundaries of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 23-3) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.04 LOITERING ON RAILROAD PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not acting within the line of duty, not
having any proper business, or not being on any proper mission requiring his or
her presence there, to loiter anywhere within a railroad yard or upon other
railroad premises.
(Prior Code, § 23-4) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05 BLOCKING OF STREETS BY TRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any train to block any street
intersection within the corporate boundaries of the town at any time for more
than five minutes; provided, that this shall not apply to cars in motion, other
than those engaged in switching.
(Prior Code, § 23-5) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and costs as provided in §
10.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 23-30)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
93.   PARKS, RECREATION, AND PUBLIC FACILITIES
      
94.   CEMETERIES
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large; regulation and taxation
   
90.03   Animals not to be at large, except cats
   
90.04   Disturbances by animals; public nuisance abatement
   
90.05   Keeping animals
   
90.06   Responsibilities of owners
   
90.07   Cruelty to animals
   
90.08   Turning confined animals at large unlawful
   
90.09   Pasturing in public areas unlawful
   
90.10   Rabies control; vaccination requirements
   
90.11   Confining female dogs and cats
   
90.12   Certain dogs running loose to be killed
   
90.13   Pet shops and kennels
   
90.14   Inspections to enforce chapter
   
90.15   Zoning ordinance to prevail
   
90.16   Vicious dogs and animals
   
90.17   Tethering dogs; care of dogs
License and Permit Requirements
   
90.30   Dog tax, registration, tag
   
90.31   Other licenses
Municipal Pound
   
90.45   Municipal pound authorized
   
90.46   Impoundment of animals
   
90.47   Impounded animals; fees for keeping and redemption
   
90.48   Sale of impounded animals of value
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. All vertebrate and invertebrate animals, whether domesticated or
wild, including, but not limited to, bees, birds and fowl (including
parakeets), cattle, cats, chickens, dogs, ducks, geese, goats, horses,
livestock of all types, mammals (including elephants), rabbits, all reptiles,
rodents, sheep, swine, and turkeys.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person(s) responsible for enforcement of the
ordinances and regulations pertaining to animal control in the town.
   ANIMAL SHELTER or MUNICIPAL POUND. Any premises formally designated by the
Town Board of Trustees for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals
held under the authority of this chapter, regardless of whether or not said
premises are within the municipality’s corporate boundaries and regardless of
whether or not said premises are under actual municipal ownership or provided
for under a contractual arrangement between the town and private owner(s).
   AT LARGE. Not under restraint, as defined herein.
   DANGEROUS BIRDS. Any warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate which may constitute
a physical threat to human beings.
   HARBORING. Allowing any animal habitually to remain or be fed on-premises.
   KENNEL. Any structure or place where three or more dogs, over six months of
age, are kept, bred, or trained, at any single time, or any facility designed
or built to accommodate the temporary boarding of more than three dogs over six
months of age.
   LIVESTOCK. All animals, other than dogs, cats, small caged birds, or small
aquatic or amphibian animals.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, or corporation owning, harboring, or keeping an
animal. Occupants of any premises to which a domesticated or tamed animal
customarily returns for a period of ten days or more shall be deemed to be
harboring or keeping the animal and thereby considered to be an OWNER of said
animal.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   RESTRAINT. An animal shall be deemed to be under RESTRAINT if confined on
the premises of its owner, if on a leash and accompanied by a responsible
person, or in the case of a hunting dog, if accompanied by its owner engaged in
the act of hunting.
   VICIOUS DOG OR ANIMAL. Any dog or animal which has bitten or attempted to
bite any person without provocation, or which attacks, barks, or growls at and
acts as if it intended to attack or bite any person or persons when not
provoked. The owner or owners of such DOGS or ANIMALS shall be liable to the
full amount when such ANIMAL bites or injures any person while such person is
in or on a place where he or she has a lawful right to be.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which can normally be found living in a naturally
wild state and is not ordinarily tamed or domesticated. The term shall include
animals which may be owned by a circus or wild animal show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 3-1)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; REGULATION AND TAXATION.
   The town shall regulate and prohibit animals running at large. The Board of
Trustees of the town may provide for pens, pounds, and buildings for the use of
the municipality. They may also regulate and provide for taxing the owners and
harborers of such animals and may authorize the extermination of animals which
are found at large in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2)
§ 90.03 ANIMALS NOT BE AT LARGE, EXCEPT CATS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any owner to permit any
animals (including chickens and other fowl) owned, harbored, or kept by him or
her, except a cat, to be at large.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to:
      (1)   Keep, own, harbor, or possess any dog within the corporate limits
of the town without providing a substantial and secure pen or fenced in area in
which said dog shall be confined (which pen or fenced in area shall be
sufficient in size that no sanitation or health problem shall be created); or
      (2)   Place a dog on a leash which permits the dog to reach or bite any
person who may be using the public thoroughfares of the town, to reach beyond
the limits of the lot or premises upon which said dog is kept and confined, or
to reach any person who may be rendering necessary services to the premises
where said dog may be kept, harbored, or possessed.
(Prior Code, § 3-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DISTURBANCES BY ANIMALS; PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or other
animal which, by barking, howling, or otherwise, disturbs the peace and quiet
of, or creates a nuisance for, any person or persons.
   (B)   It shall also be a public nuisance for any person to keep any dog or
other animal which attacks other animals or damages private or public property.
   (C)   Abatement of such public nuisances shall be handled in accordance with
the provisions of §§
92.20 through
92.31.
(Prior Code, § 3-4) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere herein, it
shall be unlawful and an offense for any person or entity to keep any animals,
except dogs and cats, within the corporate limits of the town. Specific animals
(except dogs and cats) presently within the corporate limits of the town may
remain until death or until any specific animal is kept elsewhere (other than
within the corporate limits of the town) for a period of 14 consecutive
calendar days, whichever event shall occur first. Such animals may not be
replaced by similar animals at any time for any reason.
   (B)   No swine shall be kept within the corporate limits of the town, with
the exception of not more than two Asian potbellied pigs or similar small swine
per lot or premises shall be allowed under the following conditions.
      (1)   For purposes of this chapter, POTBELLIED PIG shall mean: Asian
potbellied pigs, Shar-pei pigs, Vietnamese, Chinese, Asian pigs, or other
similar swine meeting the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Each potbellied pig shall be a pet that is kept for personal
enjoyment and not kept or raised for human consumption.
      (3)   Each potbellied pig shall be licensed with the town under such
conditions as the Animal Control Division deems appropriate, including, but not
limited to, rabies vaccination, if available, and registry through a bona fide
registry firm.
      (4)   A potbellied pig shall not exceed 75 pounds in weight and 21 inches
in height.
      (5)   There shall not be more than two potbellied pigs more than three
months of age per lot or residence.
      (6)   The keeping of potbellied pigs for commercial breeding purposes is
prohibited in the town.
      (7)   The premises where potbellied pigs are kept shall be cleaned
regularly and shall be maintained so that noxious odors are controlled.
      (8)   Any person who keeps, maintains, or harbors a potbellied pig shall
keep it confined on the premises. The confinement shall be accomplished by the
following means:
         (a)   A fence or similar closure to prevent escape;
         (b)   Keeping inside the house or other building; or
         (c)   Keeping on a leash to prevent escape.
   (C)   Every structure wherein any authorized animal is kept within the
corporate limits of the town shall be constructed of such material and in such
a manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times and it shall be
maintained in said condition, devoid of rodents and vermin and free from
objectionable odors, in order to avert the creation of a nuisance to the public
health. Every such structure, if located within 200 feet of any tenement,
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building
used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes, or residence (other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal
is kept), shall be provided with a watertight and flytight receptacle for
manure or such size as to hold all accumulations of manure. Such receptacle
shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner as to prevent it from
being or becoming a nuisance and shall be kept covered at all times, except
when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be
allowed to accumulate on the premises except in such receptacle.
   (D)   In locations where animals are confined by fence, said fence shall be
of sufficient construction to ensure that the animal(s) shall not escape.
   (E)   The keeping or raising of bees within the corporate limits of the town
shall be permitted only on large lots (over two acres). A permit shall be
required to keep or raise bees.
   (F)   The keeping or raising of horses, sheep, cattle, and chickens (or
similar fowl), shall be permitted throughout the town as long as the premises
are in accordance with the provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above and State
and County Health Department requirements and standards.
   (G)   The raising of parakeets and/or other small birds or similar fowl
shall be permitted within the town without license or permit requirements,
subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   All activities associated with the raising of such fowl shall be
completely enclosed and out of the public view.
      (2)   Premises used for the raising of such fowl shall be maintained in
accordance with divisions (C) and (D) above.
   (H)   The raising or keeping of dangerous birds shall be permitted, in
accordance with the provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above, and the license
and permit requirements outlined in §§
90.30 and
90.31.
   (I)   The raising or keeping of rodents, for any purpose, shall be
permitted, in accordance with the provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above,
and the license and permit requirements outlined in §§
90.30 and
90.31.
   (J)   The raising or keeping of rabbits shall be permitted, in accordance
with the provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above.
   (K)   The keeping or raising of any wild animals shall be prohibited within
the town, except for those wild animals which may be under the care of
traveling shows or circuses and for which the license requirements of §§
90.30 and
90.31 are met and a permit obtained.
   (L)   The keeping of pets or other animals not specifically mentioned or
regulated within this chapter shall be subject only to such generally
applicable provisions requiring the maintenance of sanitary conditions and the
avoidance of a nuisance.
   (M)   No venomous snakes may be kept within the corporate limits of the
town, except under the conditions and provisions of the license required for
such snakes in §
90.31. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to keep or
raise such snakes within said town, without having met permit requirements and
obtained a permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-5) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   In addition to any duties previously outlined, the owner of any animal shall
have the following additional responsibilities.
   (A)   Owners shall exercise proper care and control of their animals to
prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (B)   Owners shall provide proper care and treatment of their animals.
   (C)   Owners shall not abandon their animals.
(Prior Code, § 3-6) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly, willfully, or
maliciously to overdrive, overload, torture, destroy, or kill, or cruelly beat
or injure, maim, or mutilate, any animal in subjugation or captivity, whether
wild or tame, and whether belonging to himself, herself, or to another, or
deprive any such animal of necessary food, drink, or shelter; or who shall
cause, procure, or permit same; or who shall willfully set on foot, instigate,
engage in, or in any way further any act of cruelly to any animal, or any act
tending to produce such cruelty.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight
between animals, or to keep a house, pit, or other place used for fights
between animals.
(Prior Code, § 3-7) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 TURNING CONFINED ANIMALS AT LARGE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which an animal
is confined (as required by ordinance), so as to turn such animal at large, or
to in any other manner turn such animal at large.
(Prior Code, § 3-8) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 PASTURING IN PUBLIC AREAS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stake, confine, or pasture any animal
on public property (federal, state, municipal, or other), or on any railroad
right-of-way, without the consent of the proper authorities.
(Prior Code, § 3-9) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 RABIES CONTROL; VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any warm blooded animal, capable of transmitting the rabies virus,
maintained or harbored at any time in the town shall be vaccinated against
rabies with an approved vaccine, either live or inactivated (killed virus).
      (1)   Live virus vaccine can only be sold to and administered by a
licensed veterinarian. Veterinarians shall be required to keep a record of the
type and/or brand of the rabies vaccine administered to each animal for a
period of three years.
      (2)   Inactivated (killed virus) vaccine may be administered by persons
who are not licensed veterinarians. The individual who administers the vaccine
must keep a record for three years which includes:
         (a)   Name and address of the owner of the animal;
         (b)   Date of vaccination;
         (c)   Brand name of vaccine used;
         (d)   Lot serial number of vaccine used;
         (e)   Person or firm from whom purchased;
         (f)   Their address and date of purchase;
         (g)   Expiration date of vaccine used; and
         (h)   The name, address, and telephone number (if any) of the
individual administering the vaccine.
      (3)   The owner of such animals shall be required to furnish such proof
of vaccination when requested to do so by the Animal Control Officer. Failure
to provide such evidence shall be prima facie evidence that such animal has not
been so vaccinated.
   (B)   The identity and address of the owner of any animal that bites a
person shall be promptly furnished to the Animal Control Officer and County
Health Department. The Animal Control Officer shall securely quarantine such
animal until reasonable determination has been made that the animal is not
infected with rabies. At the discretion of the Animal Control Officer, such
quarantine may be on the premises of the owner, at a veterinary hospital of the
owner’s choice (at the owner’s expense), or at the municipal pound. In case of
animals whose ownership is unknown, such quarantine shall be at the municipal
pound. Said animal may be reclaimed by the owner, if adjudged free of rabies.
Such owner shall then pay any related charges for confinement. Quarantined
animals shall be under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian for a period
of ten days.
   (C)   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid or
is suspected of having rabies by a licensed veterinarian, and dies while under
such observation, the Animal Control Officer, veterinarian, or other designated
person shall immediately send the necessary part of such animal to the State
Health Department for pathological examination and shall notify the proper
health officer of any reports of human contact.
   (D)   When a report gives a positive diagnosis of rabies and the County
Health Director feels that a rabies crisis may be imminent, the Health
Department may recommend to the Town Board of Trustees a town-wide quarantine.
Upon the invoking of such quarantine by the Town Board of Trustees, no animal
shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the streets, except for
short periods of exercise (under leash and control of a competent adult).
During such quarantine, no animal may be taken or removed from the town without
written permission of the Animal Control Officer.
   (E)   During such period of rabies quarantine, every animal bitten by an
animal adjudged to be rabid:
      (1)   Shall be destroyed forthwith;
      (2)   At the owner’s expense and option, shall be treated for a rabies
infection by a licensed veterinarian; or
      (3)   Shall be held under six-month quarantine by the owner in the same
manner as a female in season. The period of quarantine may be extended from
time to time.
   (F)   No person shall remove from the town any animal suspected of having
been exposed to rabies, or any animal which has bitten a human, except as
herein provided. The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be
surrendered to the Animal Control Officer upon demand. The Animal Control
Officer shall direct disposition of said animal. No person shall refuse to
surrender any animal for quarantine or destruction when such demand is lawfully
made by the Animal Control Officer.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or harboring any dog or
cat which is six months old or older within the corporate limits of the town to
obtain a rabies vaccination certificate from a graduate licensed veterinarian,
or agent authorized by the Town Board, showing that the vaccination has been
made, date of vaccination, by whom, and the date when such vaccination shall
expire.
   (H)   Failure to abide by the municipal vaccination requirements within 15
days of establishing residency within the town shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 3-10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 CONFINING FEMALE DOGS AND CATS.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such animal cannot come into contact with
another animal, except for planned breeding.
(Prior Code, § 3-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 CERTAIN DOGS RUNNING LOOSE TO BE KILLED.
   The Animal Control Officer, his or her designated representatives, or any
law enforcement officer of the town shall be required to kill any dog running
loose within the corporate limits of the town which is determined by the Animal
Control Officer or law enforcement officer to be vicious or crazed and a threat
to the public health and safety, and which dog is found running at large
without being restrained in a pen or on a leash, without keeping said dog in
the municipal pound for any period of time.
(Prior Code, § 3-12)
§ 90.13 PET SHOPS AND KENNELS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to maintain a pet shop
or kennel, including boarding kennel, for business, unless such owner shall
first pay to the town an occupation tax of $25 and obtain from the Town Clerk/
Treasurer a license. Said license, issued by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, shall be
posted at all times and shall be in lieu of all other registration fees
prescribed, provided that all animals in such a kennel or shop shall, at all
times, be confined on the premises. Should animals belonging to such owner or
keeper be allowed off the premises, the owner or keeper shall pay the same tax
and registration fee as required for all animals not kept under this provision.
   (B)   Pet shops and kennels shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times, and shall be subject to inspection by the Animal
Control Officer at any reasonable time.
   (C)   All pet shops and kennels, excluding private boarding kennels, shall:
      (1)   Maintain records and retain such records for a two-year period on
all animals maintained in such facility. Such records shall show type/breed,
color, markings, sex, age, date, and source of the animal, period for which the
animal is maintained, date of disposition of the animal (including name and
address of new owner), and disease prevention and/or treatment and by whom;
      (2)   Provide general environmental conditions to assure adequate
physical space for the animal, control of parasites, clean food and water,
weather protection, and clean and sanitary facilities; and
      (3)   Provide cages and pens of easily cleanable materials, if used for
confinement, and keep such cages and pens clean and sanitary.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation operating a private boarding kennel
shall maintain such kennel in a sanitary condition and shall be subject to the
provisions of this code of ordinances and any future zoning ordinance.
   (E)   No pet shop, kennel, private boarding kennel, stable, coop, or other
establishment wherein animals are kept shall be maintained closer than 40 feet
to any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boardinghouse, retail
food store, building used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes, or
residence, other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept.
(Prior Code, § 3-13) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 INSPECTIONS TO ENFORCE CHAPTER.
   (A)   The Local or County Health Officer, or any member of the Town Board of
Trustees, upon complaint of any person or on his or her own initiative, shall
inspect, or cause to be inspected, any structure or place wherein an animal is
kept.
   (B)   The Local or County Health Officer may issue any such reasonable order
as he or she may deem necessary to the owner of such animal, to cause such
animal to be kept as provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to
constitute a nuisance.
   (C)   The Local or County Health Officer may make a complaint before the
Municipal Judge against any person for violation of any provision of this
chapter or for any such reasonable order, but this shall not abridge the right
of others to make such complaints.
(Prior Code, § 3-14)
§ 90.15 ZONING ORDINANCE TO PREVAIL.
   In case of conflict between this chapter and any future zoning ordinance,
the provisions of the zoning ordinance shall prevail and supersede the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-15)
§ 90.16 VICIOUS DOGS AND ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any owner as herein defined,
within the corporate limits of the town to harbor, keep, or have possession of
any vicious dog or animal as herein defined.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer, Chief of
Police, or person authorized by them, to seize and impound any dog or animal by
him or her found to be vicious, and in such an event, to cause proceedings to
be instituted in the Municipal Court against the owner of said dog or animal
for violation of this section. If such seized and impounded dog or animal shall
have bitten a human being one or more times before such seizure or impounding,
then and in that event, the procedure set out in §
90.10 shall apply, provided that said procedure shall be subject to the
ultimate decision of the Municipal Court.
      (2)   In any event, if the court shall fail to find that the dog or
animal so seized and impounded is a vicious dog or animal, then the court shall
order, and it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, to cause the surrender
and return of said dog or animal to the owner thereof, but in the event that
such dog or animal is found by the court to be a vicious dog or animal, the
court shall order the Chief of Police or person designated by him or her to
destroy said vicious dog immediately.
(Prior Code, § 3-16) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 TETHERING DOGS; CARE OF DOGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for an owner or caretaker to leave a dog outside
unattended and restrained by use of a tether. The tethering of any dog by
leash, rope, cable, or chain is prohibited.
   (B)   All persons owning or caring for a dog shall confine the dog within an
adequate fence or enclosure or within a house or building.
   (C)   Any dog(s) confined within a fenced yard or enclosure shall provide
adequate space to exercise of at least 100 square feet, per dog.
   (D)   If kept in an enclosure or fenced yard, such enclosure shall be
constructed of chain link, wood, or similar type material. All sides must be
enclosed. The enclosure shall be of sufficient height to prevent dog or dogs
from escaping.
   (E)   (1)   The owner or caretaker of a dog shall at all times provide
adequate shelter, such as a fully enclosed dog house or enclosed building,
affording protection from the elements.
      (2)   Enclosed buildings in which a dog is kept must have proper
ventilation. Shade must be provided in summer.
   (F)   Owners or caretakers of dogs must supply bedding, food, and clean
water on a daily basis.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 3-11-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 90.30 DOG TAX, REGISTRATION, TAG.
   (A)   No person, without first obtaining a written license from the Town
Clerk/Treasurer, shall own, keep, harbor, or have custody of any dog over six
months of age.
   (B)   No license shall be required for animals temporarily brought and kept
within the town or for seeing-eye dogs, when such dogs are actually used to aid
blind persons.
   (C)   Licenses shall be issued only upon presentation of proof of current
vaccination for rabies, as required by this chapter.
   (D)   The owner of the dog shall, at the time of paying the license foe,
register the dog by giving the Town Clerk/Treasurer the name and address of the
owner, the name, breed, color and sex of the dog and such other reasonable
information as said Town Clerk/Treasurer may request.
   (E)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall deliver an appropriate tag for the dog,
in addition to the written receipt. The tag shall constitute the license.
   (F)   The owner shall cause the tag received from the Town Clerk/Treasurer
to be affixed to the collar or harness of the dog upon which the license fee
has been paid, and the owner shall see that the tag is so worn at all times.
   (G)   Dog license tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another,
and no refunds shall be made for any dog license fee because of the death of
the dog or the owner’s departure from the town.
   (H)   No person shall counterfeit, or attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued
for a dog, as provided in this chapter.
   (I)   A tax of $7 per year for every male, spayed female, or unsprayed
female dog more than six months of age, is hereby levied upon the owner of any
such dog kept or harbored within the town.
   (J)   All license fees shall be paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer, and shall
be due not later than October 1 of each year, or within one week after bringing
such an animal into the town after such date.
   (K)   In the event of loss of the tag before the end of the year for which
it was issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by presenting the
original receipt and the sum of $1 to the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-25) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor bees, dangerous birds, venomous snakes,
rodents, rabbits, or wild animals without first obtaining a license.
   (B)   The license shall be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer upon a
determination that issuance is consistent with public health, safety, and
welfare and upon prior payment of a license fee in the amount of $5.
(Prior Code, § 3-26) Penalty, see §
90.99
MUNICIPAL POUND
§ 90.45 MUNICIPAL POUND AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to establish a
municipal pound, under the jurisdiction of the Chief of Police or the Animal
Control Officer who shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded
and shall treat them in a humane manner.
   (B)   The municipal pound may be established on a shared or contractual
basis with other units of government or with a private individual or firm and
need not be physically located within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-35)
§ 90.46 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer (or any other
designated officer or employee of the town) to take into custody and impound
any animal running at large in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall also proceed to impound any dog that
is running at large within the corporate limits of the town, regardless of
whether the dog bears a tag or the owner has a permit.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officer shall immediately capture and impound any
and all dogs which are kept, owned, possessed, or harbored in violation of any
of the terms and provisions of this code.
   (D)   Any person appearing at the municipal pound who shall satisfy the
keeper of the same of the fact of ownership or the right to the possession of
any dog therein impounded, shall have such dog returned to him or her, upon the
payment of the charges due, as authorized by the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Animals of no apparent value, taken into custody as provided in this
chapter, shall be destroyed in a humane manner by the Animal Control Officer,
provided that no animal taken into custody shall be destroyed until such animal
shall have been impounded at least three days. During such time, the owner may
reclaim the animal or a proper home may be established for such animal by any
person desiring the animal as a pet and willing to pay applicable license fees
and expenses incurred in the dog’s detention.
   (F)   Should any licensed institution request of the Animal Control Officer
that animals be delivered to it for scientific or educational research, such
animals may be released to said institution, provided that no animal taken into
custody shall be delivered to such institution until such animal has been
impounded for at least 15 days for dogs without a license and at least 30 days
for dogs with license, and unclaimed and unredeemed by their owner or any other
person desiring such animal as a pet and willing to pay applicable license fees
and the reasonable expenses incurred in the dog’s detention.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, obstruct the
duties and activities of the municipal official or employee responsible for
impounding animals.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person, unauthorized by Animal Control
Officer, to remove or assist to remove any animal from the municipal pound.
(Prior Code, § 3-36) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.47 IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; FEES FOR KEEPING AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   An owner or harborer of an impounded dog may redeem the animal prior
to its sale, destruction, or delivery to an institution by obtaining the
license and tag and paying the tax hereinabove set forth or by showing proof
that he or she has obtained the aforementioned, and by paying an additional $10
for every 24 hours or portion of 24 hours during which such dog has been
impounded.
   (B)   The fees for impounding and keeping animals, other than dogs to be
paid upon redemption, shall be $10 for every 24 hours or portion of 24 hours
during which said animal has been impounded and by obtaining any required
license set forth in §§
90.30 and
90.31.
   (C)   All fees shall be paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer. Receipt for
payment of fees on an impounded animal shall be presented to the Animal Control
Officer before the animal shall be released.
(Prior Code, § 3-37) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48 SALE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS OF VALUE.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after any animal of apparent value has been
impounded the Animal Control Officer or the Chief of Police shall post a
conspicuously visible notice thereof at the Town Hall. Such notice shall
describe the animal, notify the owner to pay the charges thereon prior to the
time fixed for the sale, and also state that, unless the animal is claimed, the
animal will be sold at public auction at the time and place specified in the
notice. Such sale for all animals shall not occur before the tenth day after
the posting of the notice.
   (B)   Sales provided herein shall be for cash to the highest bidder. The
minimum bid shall cover fees for impounding and keeping the animal until the
date of sale, plus a $5 fee to reimburse the town for sale expense and shall be
conducted by, or under the direction of, the Chief of Police. If there is no
bid, the Chief of Police may provide for and conduct another sale after posting
notice thereof at the Town Hall if he or she believes that a bid would be made
at a later time; otherwise, the animal shall be disposed of by the Animal
Control Officer in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   A purchaser of an animal at a sale held as provided herein shall
acquire absolute title to the animal purchased.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall transfer to the Town Clerk/Treasurer all
money received from the sale of impounded animals on the day it is received or
on the next day upon which the office of said Town Clerk/Treasurer is open for
business.
   (E)   The owner of an impounded animal sold as provided herein, may claim
the excess of the sale price of the animal above the fees for impounding and
keeping the animal and a fee of $5 to reimburse the town for the expense it has
incurred in making the sale. Such claim may be made at any time within 90 days
after the sale. If a claim is so made and approved by the Town Board of
Trustees, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall pay the claimant the excess. If a
claim is not so made, the excess shall belong to the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-38)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
or who violates or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by any
Health Officer, the Chief of Police or the Animal Control Officer, pursuant to
this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by fine and costs as provided for in 10.99. Each day upon which a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to any fine
or imprisonment, licenses issued under this chapter may be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 3-45)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Volunteer Fire Department
   
91.02   Minimum rules and regulations of Volunteer Fire Department
   
91.03   Fire Prevention Code; enforcement; variances
Fireworks and Explosives
   
91.15   Unlawful sale or possession of fireworks
   
91.16   Unlawful discharge of fireworks
   
91.17   Definition
   
91.18   Explosives
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire alarm offenses, see
Chapter 135
   Fire Chief, see §
31.25
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established for the town a Volunteer Fire Department
under the provisions of the State Volunteer Firefighters Act, being 11 O.S. §§
29-101 et seq.
   (B)   The Town Volunteer Fire Department will consist of not less than six
and not more than 20 members.
(Prior Code, § 8-1)
§ 91.02 MINIMUM RULES AND REGULATIONS OF VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall adopt a code of minimum rules and
regulations in substantial compliance with the following.
      (1)   Fire Chief.
         (a)   The Chief shall be the head of the Department, subject to the
laws of the state, ordinances of this municipality, and the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to this section. The Chief shall be appointed in
the manner provided by the law applicable to this municipality for the
appointment of municipal officers.
         (b)   The Chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the Department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him or her by law or the
municipality.
         (c)   The Chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
Department, the municipal fire hydrants, cisterns, and other sources of water
supply of the municipality at least twice a year.
         (d)   The Chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on
fire prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best
advantage of all members.
         (e)   The Chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and shall
direct the officers and members in the performance of their duties.
         (f)   The Chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the Department.
         (g)   The Chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause and, in the case of suspicion of incendiarism, shall notify
proper authorities. The Chief shall secure and preserve all possible evidence
for future use in the case of suspicious incendiarism.
         (h)   The Chief shall file the appropriate activity report forms with
the office of the State Fire Marshal in Oklahoma City on an annual basis. The
activity report forms shall be designed by the State Fire Marshal and shall
include, but not be limited to, the amount of property and vehicle fire loss,
types of fires, inspections, and investigations. The report shall include
notification of all fire-related civilian deaths and injuries in the respective
jurisdiction and of the firefighter deaths in the line of duty and of
firefighter injuries in the line of duty requiring the services of a hospital
or physician, or both.
      (2)   Assistant Chief. In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief
on duty shall command the Department and shall have the full powers and
responsibilities of the Chief.
      (3)   Company officers. The company officers shall be selected upon
their:
         (a)   Knowledge of firefighting;
         (b)   Leadership ability; and
         (c)   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
      (4)   Secretary/Treasurer. One member elected by the Fire Department
shall be Secretary/Treasurer. His or her duties shall consist of the following:
         (a)   Calling the roll at the opening of such meeting;
         (b)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
         (c)   Collecting any money due the Department by the members.
      (5)   New members.
         (a)   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment.
         (b)   New volunteer members, upon completion of their probation
period, must be approved by the majority of the Fire Department.
      (6)   Bylaws. The bylaws of the Department shall include, but shall not
be limited to, the following.
         (a)   All volunteer firefighters are required to respond to alarms of
fire and other emergencies when notified.
         (b)   A volunteer firefighter is required to be present at all regular
meetings, call meetings, and schools presented for the benefit of the
firefighters.
         (c)   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month.
         (d)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in
succession or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be
expelled from the Fire Department rolls.
         (e)   Volunteer firefighters leaving the municipality for an extended
period of time will be expelled from the rolls.
         (f)   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes
provided for him or her will be expelled from the rolls.
         (g)   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be expelled
from the rolls for the following offenses:
            1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
            2.   Any act of insubordination;
            3.   Neglect of duty;
            4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
            5.   Conviction of a felony.
         (h)   All volunteer firefighters shall report for duty in such a
condition as to perform their assigned duties in a safe, appropriate, and
effective manner, and does not pose a threat to the safety or himself, herself,
or others.
   (B)   Copies of this code of ordinances and any amendments thereto relating
to the Volunteer Fire Department of the town shall be submitted to the State
Insurance Commission when such ordinances are adopted or amended by the Town
Board.
(Prior Code, § 8-2)
§ 91.03 FIRE PREVENTION CODE; ENFORCEMENT; VARIANCES.
   (A)   (1)   The Fire Prevention Code adopted by the Town Board of Trustees
shall be enforced by the Town Volunteer Fire Department under the supervision
of the Fire Chief.
      (2)   Members of said Department may be detailed as inspectors by the
Fire Chief, if he or she deems it necessary.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of the Town Volunteer Fire Department, with the
approval of the Town Board of Trustees, shall have the power to grant a
variance to any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code, upon application
in writing by the owner or lessee (or his or her duly authorized agent), when
there are practical difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of said
code; provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety
secured, and substantial justice done.
      (2)   The particulars of such modifications, when granted or allowed, and
the decision of the Fire Chief thereon, shall be entered upon the records of
the Department, and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8-3)
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.15 UNLAWFUL SALE OR POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to
offer for sale or to possess any fireworks within the corporate limits of the
town at any time during the year; provided however, nothing herein shall
prohibit the sale or possession of most fireworks within the corporate limits
of the town between June 20 and the July 5 of each year; further provided, sale
or possession of airborne or aerial fireworks of any kind are absolutely
prohibited at all times during the year.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed - -2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to
discharge fireworks within the corporate limits of the town, except on July 4
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. (midnight); provided, that no
fireworks shall be discharged at any time within the fire zone of the town or
within 300 feet of any hospital, church, school, public meeting place, or
flammable agricultural crop; further provided, discharge of airborne or aerial
fireworks of any kind is absolutely prohibited at all times during the year.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed - -2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible
or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation and
which is defined as common or special fireworks by the United States Department
of Transportation (DOT). The term FIREWORKS shall not include toy cap pistols
and caps, blank cartridges, railroad flares, and model rockets.
(Prior Code, § 8-22)
§ 91.18 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to store, keep, have on
their premises or in their possession, any explosive materials of any kind or
nature without first certifying to the Fire Chief that such person has complied
fully with the laws of the state for the purpose of selling, storing, or
keeping such articles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or store any explosive on
any premises which are occupied as a dwelling or school. Any person storing
explosives for sale to the general public must comply with the laws of the
state concerning the sale and storage of said explosives.
(Prior Code, § 8-23) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall fail to do anything required by
this chapter or by any code adopted by this chapter, who shall otherwise
violate any provision of the chapter or of any code adopted by this chapter, or
who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the officers
provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as set forth in §
10.99. Each day in which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-30)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Abandoned ice boxes, refrigerators, and containers
   
92.02   Food Service Sanitation Code adopted
   
92.03   Milk Ordinance adopted
   
92.04   Sanitary facilities
   
92.05   Contagious diseases
Nuisances
   
92.20   Nuisance unlawful
   
92.21   Town Board may determine and define nuisances
   
92.22   Nuisance defined
   
92.23   Public nuisances; possible remedies
   
92.24   Private nuisances; possible remedies
   
92.25   Person liable
   
92.26   Procedures cumulative
   
92.27   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
92.28   Abatement of public health nuisances
   
92.29   Cleaning and mowing of property
   
92.30   Removal of unsafe structures
   
92.31   Boarding and securing of dilapidated building; definitions
Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.45   Definitions
   
92.46   Junk automobiles
   
92.47   Impounding
   
92.48   Authority to impound vehicles
   
92.49   Impoundment for certain causes
   
92.50   Impoundment for certain causes; complaint, fines, and cost
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ABANDONED ICE BOXES, REFRIGERATORS, AND CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to leave in a
place accessible to children any abandoned or discarded ice box, refrigerator,
or other container which has an airtight door with a lock or other fastening
device which cannot be easily released for opening from the inside of the ice
box, refrigerator, or container, without first removing the door, lock, or
fastener.
(Prior Code, § 10-20) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 FOOD SERVICE SANITATION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The United States Public Health Service “Food Service Sanitation
Ordinance and Code,” current edition, is hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   From the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions
of said code, as herein modified, shall be controlling in the regulation of
food service establishments within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   One copy of said code is on file in the office of the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (D)   No fee shall be required for a municipal permit to operate a food
service establishment.
(Prior Code, § 10-35)
§ 92.03 MILK ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The production, transportation, processing, handling, sampling,
examination, grading, labeling, and sale of all milk and milk products sold for
the ultimate consumption within the town; the inspection of dairy herds, dairy
farms and milk plants; the issuing and revocation of permits to milk producers,
haulers and distributors shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions
of the “Milk Ordinance Recommendations of the Public Health Service,” revised
to comply with Oklahoma State Statutes.
   (B)   From the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions
of said ordinance, as herein modified, shall regulate milk and milk products
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   One copy of said ordinance is on file in the office of the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 10-36)
§ 92.04 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
      SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt, or constructed to
conform to the specifications approved by the State Department of Health.
      SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush-type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
(Prior Code, § 10-10)
   (B)   Owner to provide proper toilet facilities.
      (1)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans
reside, are employed, or congregate, shall install, equip, and maintain
adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement. This
requirement shall include a sanitary water closet or closets, a water closet or
closets connected to an approved septic tank, or a sanitary pit privy or
privies.
      (2)   The closets and toilets required herein shall be of the sanitary
water closet type when located within 300 feet of any municipal sanitary sewer
line and accessible thereto. It shall be the duty of every owner of property so
located, to connect, or cause to be connected, his or her toilet(s) with the
municipal sanitary sewer system and to ensure that each toilet is properly
connected with said sewer system.
      (3)   When no so located, the closet or toilet shall be of:
         (a)   The sanitary water closet type, so connected to a sanitary sewer
(notwithstanding the distance from it);
         (b)   The water closet type, connected to a septic tank approved by
the County Health Officer; or
         (c)   The sanitary pit privy type, approved by the County Health
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-11)
   (C)   Proper disposal of human excrement required. All human excrement shall
be disposed of in closets and privies of the type hereinbefore described. It
shall be unlawful for any owner of property to permit the disposal of human
excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to dispose of human
excrement in any other manner.
(Prior Code, § 10-12)
   (D)   Unauthorized facilities declared public nuisances. All facilities for
the disposal of human excrement in a manner different from that required by
this code of ordinances, and all privies and closets so constructed, situated,
or maintained as to endanger the public health, are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and may be dealt with, and abated, as such.
(Prior Code, § 10-13)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
   (A)   Introducing diseases.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person affected with or exposed to any
contagious or infectious disease to be upon any street or in any public place
in the town. The purpose of this provision is to avoid exposing other persons
to such a disease.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person having
charge of any child or children to allow or permit such child or children to
attend any classes, school, or any gathering of people, or to appear upon any
street or in any public place in the town, while infected with, or exposed to,
any contagious or infectious disease, or in any manner to allow other persons
to be exposed to such a disease.
      (3)   No person suffering from, or infected with, the communicable form
of a venereal disease or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) shall
engage in any occupation involving food or food products or intimate contact
with persons.
(Prior Code, § 10-1)
   (B)   Report of contagious diseases.
      (1)   Every physician practicing in the town shall report to the County
Health Official, within six hours alter the diagnosis of the same, the
appearance of any of the following diseases: diphtheria (including membranous
croup), scarlet fever, smallpox, yellow fever, typhoid fever, acute anterior,
poliomyelitis (infantile paralysis), epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis,
whooping cough, mumps, or any other pestilential, infectious, or contagious
disease.
      (2)   Syphilis, gonococcus infection, and cancroids are hereby and
hereinafter recognized and declared to be contagious, infectious, communicable,
and dangerous to the public health. The term VENEREAL DISEASE, as used in this
section, shall include all such diseases.
      (3)   The statutes of the state governing prevention and control of the
diseases stated in this division (B) shall apply to all cases of this nature,
after said report is made.
(Prior Code, § 10-2)
   (C)   Quarantine.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, or go upon, any
ground or premises under quarantine, without first having obtained permission
to do so from the Local or County Health Officials.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person whom the Local or County Health
Official shall have ordered to be detained in quarantine, to neglect or refuse
to be so detained, or to willfully violate any quarantine regulation thereof.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear down, remove, deface,
mutilate, or destroy any order, notice, or flag that may be posted or displayed
by the Local or County Health Official.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully violate, or refuse
to comply with, any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule, or regulation
of any officer or official charged with enforcement of such order, direction,
prohibition, rule, or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 10-3)
Penalty, see §
92.99
NUISANCES
§ 92.20 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person (owner, lessee, or other) to create or
maintain a nuisance or to permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his or
her control, within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 TOWN BOARD MAY DETERMINE AND DEFINE NUISANCES.
   The Town Board has the power to determine what is and what shall constitute
a nuisance within the corporate limits of the town and, for the protection of
the public health, parks, and water supply, shall have power outside of said
town corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 14-2)
§ 92.22 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   A NUISANCE consists of unlawfully doing an act, omitting to perform a duty,
or any thing or condition which:
   (A)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety
of others;
   (B)   Offends public decency;
   (C)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for use, any lake, drainage way, stream, stream basin, public park,
street, or other public property; or
   (D)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
(Prior Code, § 14-3)
§ 92.23 PUBLIC NUISANCES; POSSIBLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   A PUBLIC NUISANCE is one which affects, at the same time, an entire
community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   (B)   The possible remedies against a public nuisance are:
      (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Prosecution of information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      (3)   Civil action; and
      (4)   Abatement:
         (a)   By the person injured; or
         (b)   By the municipality, in accordance with law or ordinance.
   (C)   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 14-4)
§ 92.24 PRIVATE NUISANCES; POSSIBLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Every nuisance not included in §
92.23(A) is a PRIVATE NUISANCE.
   (B)   The possible remedies against a private nuisance are:
      (1)   Civil action; and
      (2)   Abatement:
         (a)   By the person injured; or
         (b)   By the municipality, in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14-5)
§ 92.25 PERSON LIABLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property created by a former owner is
liable therefor in the same manner as the person who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 14-6)
§ 92.26 PROCEDURES CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this subchapter
and by other provisions of law and ordinances shall be cumulative one to the
other. The Town Board may elect to follow any such procedure which is
applicable in abating any particular nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 14-7)
§ 92.27 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Whenever it is practical to do so, the Town Board has the power
summarily to abate any such nuisance, after notice to the owner and an
opportunity for him or her to be heard, if this can be done.
   (B)   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of one or
more persons of the public generally, and it is recognized that, in such
circumstances, the Mayor (or his or her representative) may be justified or
required to take immediate and proper action summarily to abate such nuisances,
or to reduce or suspend the danger, until more deliberate action can be taken
toward such abatement.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, Chief of Police, Town Attorney, Health Officer, any
Trustee, any resident of the town, or any other officer subordinate to the Town
Board, may submit to said Town Board a statement as to the existence of a
nuisance defined by state law or the ordinances of the town and a request or
recommendation that it be abated.
   (D)   The Town Board shall determine whether or not the alleged nuisance is
a nuisance in fact and, before proceeding to have the nuisance abated, the said
Town Board shall give notice of a hearing on the proposed abatement to the
owner of any property concerned and to any other person alleged or deemed
responsible for, or to be causing, the nuisance and an adequate opportunity to
be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing can be given. Such
notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be given in writing by
mail or by service (by a police officer), if his, her, or their names and
addresses are known; if the names and addresses are not known, and the peace,
health, safety, morals, or welfare of the person, persons, or public adversely
affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a notice of
the hearing shall be posted on the premises or published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the town or county.
   (E)   If the Town Board finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it shall
direct the owner and/or other persons responsible for, or causing the nuisance,
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare of the person, persons, or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay. If such peace, health, safety,
morals, or welfare would be unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if
the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate
it within the specified time, the Town Board shall direct the Mayor to abate
the nuisance or have it abated, if summary abatement is practicable.
   (F)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall send a statement of the cost of such
summary abatement to the owner and/or other persons responsible for, or
causing, the nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if his, her, or
their names and addresses are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a
debt to the town, collectible as other debts of the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 14-10)
§ 92.28 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES.
   (A)   The Local or County Health Officer shall have the authority to order,
in writing, the owner or occupant of any private premises in the town to remove
from such premises, within a reasonable length of time and at his or her own
expense, any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the
breeding of insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of
disease, or any other condition adversely affecting the public health. Failure
to do so shall constitute an offense. Such order shall be served on the owner
or occupant (or his or her agent) of the premises by the Local or County Health
Officer or a police officer. If the premises are unoccupied and the residence
of the owner, occupant, or agent is unknown or is without the state, the order
may be served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at
least one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town or
county.
   (B)   If the order is not complied with, the Health Officer may cause the
order to be executed and the cost thereof shall be certified to the Town Clerk/
Treasurer. The cost of abating such nuisance shall be added to the municipal
utility bill of the owner or occupant (if he or she is a user of any municipal
utility service) and shall become due and payable and be subject to the same
regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If
such owner or occupant is not a user of any municipal utility service, such
costs, after certification to die Town Clerk/Treasurer, may be collected in any
manner in which any other debt due the town may be collected.
(Prior Code, § 14-11)
§ 92.29 CLEANING AND MOWING OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The town may cause property within the municipal limits to be cleaned
of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the following
procedure.
      (1)   (a)   At least ten days’ notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the
County Treasurer’s office before the Board of Trustees holds a hearing or takes
action. The notice shall order the property owner to clean the properly of
trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate, and
said notice shall further state that unless such work is performed within ten
days of the date of the notice the work shall be done by the town and a notice
of lien shall be filed with the County Clerk against the property for the costs
due and owing the town. At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner,
the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which
receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the
mailee. However, if the property owner cannot be located within ten days from
the date of mailing by the Town Board of Trustees governing body, notice may be
given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication, (as
defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102) one time not less than ten days prior to any
hearing or action by the town.
         (b)   If the Board of Trustees anticipates summary abatement of a
nuisance in accordance with the provisions of division (B) below, the notice,
whether by certified mail, posting or publication, shall state: that any
accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the owner’s
property occurring within six months after the removal of trash or cutting or
mowing of weeds or grass on the property pursuant to such notice may be
summarily abated by the Board of Trustees, that the costs of such abatement
shall be assessed against the owner, and that a lien may be imposed on the
property to secure such payment, all without further prior notice to the
property owner.
      (2)   The owner of the property may give his or her written consent to
the town authorizing removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds or grass.
By giving said written consent, the owner waives his or her right to a hearing
by the municipality.
      (3)   A hearing may be held by the Board of Trustees to determine whether
the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused the
property to become detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the
public and the community or a hazard to traffic or creates a fire hazard to the
danger of property.
      (4)   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard and that the properly would benefit by the removal of such
conditions, the agents of the town are granted the right of entry on the
property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass and performance of
the necessary duties as a governmental function of the town. Immediately
following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the Town Clerk/Treasurer
shall file a notice of lien with the County Clerk describing the property and
the work performed by the town and stating that the town claims a lien on said
property for the cleaning or mowing costs.
      (5)   The Board of Trustees shall determine the actual cost of such
cleaning and mowing and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection
therewith, including the cost of notice and mailing. The Town Clerk/Treasurer
shall forward by mail to the property owner specified in this division (A) a
statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If the cleaning and mowing
is done by the town, the cost to the property owner for said cleaning and
mowing shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and
equipment required. If the cleaning and mowing are done on a private contract
basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      (6)   If payment is not made within 30 days from the date of the mailing
of the statement, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward a certified statement
of the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer and the same shall be levied
on the property and collected by the County Treasurer as other taxes authorized
by law. Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the
personal obligation of the property owner for and after the date the cost is
certified to the County Treasurer. In addition the cost and the interest
thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the cost is
certified to the County Treasurer, co-equal with the lien of ad valorem taxes
and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and superior to all other
titles and liens against the property, and the lien shall continue until the
cost shall be fully paid. At the time of collection, the County Treasurer shall
collect a fee of $5 for each parcel of property. Said fee shall be deposited to
the credit of the General Fund of the county. At any time prior to the
collection as provided in this division (A)(6), the town may pursue any civil
remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon including an
action in person and against the property owner and an action in rem to
foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from
the surface interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject
to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving
payment, if any, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer
a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien.
      (7)   The town may designate by ordinance an administrative officer or
administrative body to carry out the duties of the Board of Trustees in this
division (A). The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the Town Board
of Trustees from any order of the administrative officer or administrative
body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the
Town Clerk/Treasurer within ten days after the administrative order is
rendered.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees of the town causes property within the
municipal limits to be cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed
in accordance with the procedures provided for in division (A) above, any
subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed or grass growth on the
property occurring within a six-month period may be declared to be a nuisance
and may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the property owner.
At the time of each such summary abatement, the town shall notify the property
owner of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the
property owner may request a hearing within ten days after the date of mailing
the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in division (A)
above. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing the cost of such abatement
shall be determined and collected as provided for in divisions (A)(5) through
(A)(7) above.
   (C)   The Town Board of Trustees may enact ordinances to prohibit owners of
property or persons otherwise in possession or control located within the
municipal limits from allowing trash to accumulate or weeds to grow or stand
upon the premises and may impose penalties for violation of said ordinances.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CLEANING. The remove of trash from property.
      OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
      TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste, or matter of any kind or form, which is not
cared for, discarded, or abandoned.
      WEED.
         (a)   Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or
poison sumac, and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
            1.   Exceeds 12 inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs, or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community or a hazard to
traffic or a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the mowing
of said WEEDS;
            2.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposit or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
            3.   Harbors rodents or vermin;
            4.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
            5.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
            6.   Is dead or diseased.
         (b)   The term WEED shall not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use, which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agriculture purposes.
(Prior Code, § 14-12)
§ 92.30 REMOVAL OF UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the town may cause dilapidated buildings
within the municipal limits to be torn down and removed in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   At least ten days’ notice that a building is to torn down or removed
shall be given to the owner of the property before the Board of Trustees holds
a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be affected.
In addition, a copy of said notice shall be sent by mail to the property owner
at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls in the office of the
County Treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as
shown by the records in the office of the County Clerk to the last known
address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to any property
owner or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of mailee. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage
holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on
the property, or by publication (as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102). Such notice
may be published once not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action by
the municipality pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   (C)   A hearing shall be held by the Board of Trustees to determine if the
property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the general public and the community or if said property creates a
fire hazard which is dangerous to other property.
   (D)   Pursuant to a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or a hazard and that the property would benefit by the removal of
such conditions, the Board of Trustees may cause the dilapidated building to be
torn down and removed. The Board of Trustees shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and completion of the work. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall
immediately file a notice of dilapidation and lien with the County Clerk
describing the property, the findings of the town at the hearing, and stating
that the town claims a lien on said property for the destruction and removal
costs and that such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date of filing of said notice. The agents of the town are
granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the necessary
duties as a governmental function of the town if the work is not performed by
the property owner within dates fixed by the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Town Board of Trustees shall determine the actual cost of the
dismantling and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses that
may be necessary in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the
buildings, including the cost of notice and mailing. The Town Clerk/Treasurer
shall forward a statement of the actual cost attributable to the dismantling
and removal of the buildings and a demand for payment of such costs, by mail to
the property owner. In addition, a copy of said statement shall be mailed to
any mortgage holder at the address provided for in division (B) above. At the
time of mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage
holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service,
which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of
the mailee. If the town dismantles or removes any dilapidated buildings, the
cost to the properly owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor,
maintenance, and equipment required for the dismantling and removal of the
dilapidated buildings. If dismantling and removal of the dilapidated buildings
is done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the
lowest and best bidder.
   (F)   (1)   When payment is made to the town for costs incurred, the Town
Clerk/Treasurer shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to
the actual cost of the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made
within six months from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of
such properly, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the County Treasurer. Said cost shall be levied on
the property and collected by the County Treasurer as are other taxes
authorized by law.
      (2)   Until finally paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall be the
personal obligation of the properly owner from and after the date of the notice
of dilapidation and lien is filed with the County Clerk. In addition the cost
and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the
notice of the lien is filed with the County Clerk. Said lien shall be co-equal
with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments
and shall be prior and superior to all other titles and liens against the
property. The lien shall continue until the cost is fully paid. At the time of
collection, the County Treasurer shall collect a fee of $5 for each parcel of
property. Said fee shall be deposited to the credit of the General Fund of the
county.
      (3)   At any time prior to collection as provided for in this division
(F), the town may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing
and interest thereon including an action in person and against the property
owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property.
      (4)   A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, the Town Clerk/
Treasurer shall forward to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and
shall direct discharge of the lien.
   (G)   The town may designate, by ordinance, an administrative officer or
administrative body to carry out the duties of the Board of Trustees specified
in this section. The property owner shall have the right of appeal to the Board
of Trustees from any order of the administrative officer or administrative
body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of appeal with the
Town Clerk/Treasurer within ten days after the administrative order is
rendered.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DILAPIDATED BUILDING. A structure, which through neglect or injury, lacks
necessary repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such
an extent that said structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of
the general public.
      OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   (I)   Nothing in the provisions of this section shall prevent the town from
abating a dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its police
power to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the general public.
   (J)   The officers, employees, or agents of the town shall not be liable for
any damages or loss of property due to the removal of dilapidated buildings
performed pursuant to the provisions of this section or as otherwise prescribed
by law.
   (K)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 14-13)
§ 92.31 BOARDING AND SECURING OF DILAPIDATED BUILDING; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   After a building has been declared dilapidated, as provided in §
92.30, and before the commencement of the tearing down and removal of a
dilapidated building, the Board of Trustees may authorize that such a building
be boarded and secured.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may cause the premises on which an unsecured
building is located to be cleaned of trash and weeds in accordance with the
provisions of §
92.29.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may cause an unsecured building to be boarded
and secured in accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   Before the Board of Trustees orders such action, at least ten days’
notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and secured shall be given
by mail to any property owners and mortgage holders, as provided in §
92.30. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or mortgage
holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service,
which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of
the mailee. A copy of the notice shall also be posted on the property to be
affected. However, if neither the properly owner nor mortgage holder can be
located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or
by publication (as defined in 11 O.S. § 1-102). Such notice shall be published
one time not less than ten days prior to any hearing or action by the town
pursuant to the provisions of this section. If the Board of Trustees
anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the provisions
in this division (C), the notice shall state that any subsequent need for
boarding and securing the building within a six-month period after the initial
boarding and securing of the building pursuant to such notice may be summarily
boarded and secured by the Board of Trustees, that the costs of such boarding
and securing shall be assessed against the owner, and that a lien may be
imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further prior
notice to the property owner or mortgage holder.
      (2)   The owner of the property may give his or her written consent to
the town authorizing the boarding and securing of such unsecured building and
the payment of any costs incurred thereby. By giving said written consent, the
owner waives his or her right to a hearing by the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   (a)   If the property owner does not give his or her written
consent to such actions, a hearing may be held by the Board of Trustees to
determine whether the boarding and securing of such unsecured building would
promote and benefit the public health, safety, or welfare. Such hearing may be
held in conjunction with a hearing on the accumulation of trash of the growth
of weeds or grass on the premises of such unsecured building held pursuant to
the provisions of §
92.29(A)(3).
         (b)   In making such determination, the Board of Trustees shall apply
the following standard: the Board of Trustees may order the boarding and
securing of the unsecured building when the boarding and securing thereof would
make such building less available for transient occupation, decrease a fire
hazard created by such building, or decrease the hazard that such building
would constitute an attractive nuisance to children.
         (c)   Upon making the required determination, the Board of Trustees
may order the boarding and securing of the unsecured building.
      (4)   After the Board of Trustees orders the boarding and securing of
such unsecured building, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall immediately file a
notice of unsecured building and lien with the County Clerk describing the
property, stating the findings of the town at the hearing at which such
building was determined to be unsecured, and stating that the town claims a
lien on said property for the costs of boarding and securing such building and
that such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and
after the date of filing said notice.
      (5)   Pursuant to the order of the Board of Trustees, the agents of the
town are granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the
boarding and securing of such building and for the performance of all necessary
duties as a governmental function of the town.
      (6)   After an unsecured building has been boarded and secured, the Board
of Trustees shall determine the actual costs of such actions and any other
expenses that may be necessary in conjunction therewith including the cost of
the notice and mailing. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward a statement of
the actual costs attributable to the boarding and securing of the unsecured
building and a demand for payment of such costs, by mail, to any property
owners and mortgage holders as provided in §
92.30. At the time of mailing of the statement of costs by mail to any property
owner or mortgage holder, the town shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the
postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name
and address of the mailee. If the town boards and secures any unsecured
building, the cost to the property owner shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, materials, and equipment required for the performance of such
actions. If such actions are done on a private contract basis, the contract
shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
      (7)   (a)   When payment is made to the town for costs incurred, the Town
Clerk/Treasurer shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to
the actual costs of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not
made within 30 days from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner
of such property, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall forward a certified statement
of the amount of the costs to the County Treasurer. Said costs shall be levied
on the property and collected by the county treasurer as are other taxes
authorized by law.
         (b)   Until fully paid, the costs and the interest thereon shall be
the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date the
notice of unsecured building and lien is filed with the County Clerk. In
addition the costs and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the County Clerk.
Said lien shall be co-equal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other
taxes and special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all other
titles and liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the cost
and interest are fully paid.
         (c)   At any time prior to collection as a provided for in this
division (C)(7), the town may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the
amount owing and interest thereon including an action in person and against the
property owner and an action in rem to foreclosure its lien against the
property.
         (d)   A mineral interest, if severed from the surface owner, shall not
be subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon
receiving payment, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward to the County
Treasurer notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
      (8)   The town may designate by ordinance an administrative officer or
administrative body to carry out the duties of the Board of Trustees specified
in this section. The property owner or mortgage holder shall have a right of
appeal to the Board of Trustees from any order of the administrative officer or
administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of
appeal with the Town Clerk/Treasurer within ten days after the administrative
order is rendered.
      (9)   If the Board of Trustees causes a structure within the municipal
limits to be boarded and secured, any subsequent need or boarding and securing
within a six-month period constitutes a public nuisance and may be summarily
boarded and secured without further prior notice to the property owner or
mortgage holder. At the time of each such summary boarding and securing, the
town shall notify the property owner and mortgage holder of the boarding and
costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may request an
appeal with the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten days after the mailing of the
notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in division (C)(1)
above. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such boarding
and securing shall be determined and collected as provided for in divisions (C)
(6) and (C)(7) above.
      (10)   The Town Board of Trustees may determine that a building is
unsecured and order that such building be boarded and secured in the manner
provided for in this division (C) even though such building has not been
declared by the Board of Trustees to be dilapidated.
      (11)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         BOARDING AND SECURING or BOARDED AND SECURED. The closing, boarding,
or locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
structure.
         UNSECURED BUILDING. Any structure which is not occupied by a legal or
equitable owner thereof, or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner and into
which there are one or more unsecured openings, such as broken windows,
unlocked windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes
in the roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar
hatchways, or other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an
unauthorized entry into the structure.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 14-14)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines or every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purpose of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, and tractors.
(Prior Code, § 15-71)
§ 92.46 JUNK AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other
entity to permit an inoperative automobile or other vehicle, or a junk
automobile or other vehicle, to be parked on any street, alley, or highway
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, or allow to be kept, an inoperative
automobile or other vehicle, or a junk automobile or other vehicle, to be
parked, maintained, or otherwise kept on any private property within the town
closer than 25 feet to the traveling surface of any street, alley, or highway
in said municipality.
(Prior Code, § 15-72) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47 IMPOUNDING.
   Any car, truck, or other vehicle parked, left, or abandoned in violation of
the provisions of this subchapter shall be removed from the place the same is
illegally parked, left, or abandoned, to any appropriate place to be stored
until claimed by owner or person having possession thereof. A charge shall be
made for the removal of such car, truck, or vehicle in the same rates and
amounts as established by the Interstate Commerce Commission or any other
applicable state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 15-73)
§ 92.48 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove a vehicle
from a street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to
a garage designated or maintained by the Police Department, or otherwise
maintained by this town, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   (A)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct, or
causeway, or in a tube or tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction
to traffic;
   (B)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are,
by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable
to provide for its custody or removal; or
   (C)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 15-74)
§ 92.49 IMPOUNDMENT FOR CERTAIN CAUSES.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, the Chief of Police of
the town shall be and he or she is hereby authorized and directed to cause the
impoundment in any public or private storage (garage) or yard or place of
vehicle storage under the following circumstances:
   (A)   When such vehicle is parked on private property without the consent
first had and obtained of the owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
private property, and after complaint in written form is signed by said owner,
occupant, or person in charge of such property;
   (B)   When any such vehicle is found parked in front of, or blocking, any
private driveway or public alley;
   (C)   When such vehicle is found parked between the curb of a public street
and a private property line, unless permitted under the code of the town; or
   (D)   When such vehicle has had issued against it three or more parking
tickets, which parking tickets are delinquent and unpaid on the date of such
impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 15-75)
§ 94.50 IMPOUNDMENT FOR CERTAIN CAUSES; COMPLAINT, FINES, AND COST.
   (A)   Prior to the impoundment of any vehicle found in violation of the
provisions of § 94.49, a written complaint shall be signed by the owner of
private property, or the occupant or person in charge thereof, or by the
investigating officer, and said complaint shall be verified by the Town
Attorney after investigation. Said complaint shall thereafter be filed with the
Clerk of the Municipal Criminal Court of the town.
   (B)   Upon the payment of the fine hereinafter fixed, either on plea of
guilty or after conviction, and after conviction, and after the payment of any
other penalties, and in particular those required in §
92.49, the Town Clerk/Treasurer or said court shall issue to the owner of any
such vehicle a receipt for the payment of the fine and other penalties lawfully
assessed against the owner.
   (C)   The owner of said vehicle, upon presentation of the receipt to the
owner or person in charge of the storage yard or place in which his or her said
vehicle has been impounded, shall be entitled to have delivered over to him or
her his or her vehicle after the payment of towing and storage charges, which
shall be in the rates and amounts as established by the U.S. Interstate
Commerce Commission or any other applicable state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 15-76)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.05 or any ordinances, codes, or standards adopted by reference by §§
92.01 through
92.05, or maintains or permits to continue any public nuisance as defined by §§
92.01 through
92.05, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-37)
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.20 through
92.31 by doing any act prohibited, declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared
to be a nuisance, an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who fails to do any act
required by any such provision, who fails to do any act when such provision
declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, who
violates any legal order or regulation made pursuant to §§
92.20 through
92.31, or who maintains any nuisance as defined in §§
92.20 through
92.31, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99 of this code. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 14-25)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS, RECREATION, AND PUBLIC FACILITIES
Section
Public Parks
   
93.01   Public parks
   
93.02   Defacing property
   
93.03   Driving in parks
   
93.04   Speed
   
93.05   Injuring trees and the like
   
93.06   Nuisance or indecency
   
93.07   Throwing stones, rubbish, or glass containers; glass beverage
containers prohibited in lake areas
   
93.08   Hunting or molesting animals or fowl
   
93.09   Bill posting
   
93.10   Disorderly behavior
   
93.11   Vending and retailing
   
93.12   Fouling water
   
93.13   Keep to right
   
93.14   Trespassing
   
93.15   Disturbing picnics
   
93.16   Domestic fowl or animal at large
   
93.17   Firearms, camping, fireworks, and open fires prohibited in any town
park area; exceptions
Public Library
   
93.30   Library system established; jurisdiction
   
93.31   Governing board
   
93.32   Ad valorem tax
   
93.33   Town in district
   
93.34   Board appointment
   
93.35   Library incorporated
 
   
93.99   Penalty
PUBLIC PARKS
§ 93.01 PUBLIC PARKS.
   All places heretofore owned by the town and used as parks or lakes or
municipal water supply are hereby declared to be public parks within the
meaning of this subchapter and are subject to all rules and regulations set out
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-10)
§ 93.02 DEFACING PROPERTY.
   No person shall write upon or mark, or deface in any manner, or use in any
improper way any water closet, park seat, building, fence, or other property in
any park.
(Prior Code, § 17-11) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Damaging or destroying property an offense, see §
134.03
§ 93.03 DRIVING IN PARKS.
   No person shall drive or ride upon the grass or footways or walks or
elsewhere in any town park other than upon established roads provided for the
use of automobiles and other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 17-12) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 SPEED.
   No person shall drive or ride at a greater speed than 20 mph within any town
park.
(Prior Code, § 17-13) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 INJURING TREES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall break, cut, mutilate, or injure, remove, or carry away any
trees, shrubs, plants, flowers, stone, stone walk, bench, chair, seat, bower,
stand, structure, fence, property, or anything whatsoever in, upon, or near any
town park, or any street, avenue, or highway around the same.
(Prior Code, § 17-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 NUISANCE OR INDECENCY.
   No person shall commit any nuisance or any offense against decency and good
morals in any town park.
(Prior Code, § 17-15) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 THROWING STONES, RUBBISH, OR GLASS CONTAINERS; GLASS BEVERAGE
CONTAINERS PROHIBITED IN LAKE AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall throw stones, rubbish, or glass containers of any kind
into any lake or pond or stream, or other place in the parks, except into
receptacles designated for that purpose.
   (B)   No person shall bring or use glass beverage containers within lake
areas owned by the town designated “no glass containers.”
(Prior Code, § 17-16) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 HUNTING OR MOLESTING ANIMALS OR FOWL.
   No person shall hunt, chase, kill, set snares for, pet, or tease any rabbit,
duck, goose, squirrel, bird, fish, or any other fowl, animal, or thing in any
town park.
(Prior Code, § 17-17) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 BILL POSTING.
   No person shall paste, affix, or inscribe any handbill, poster, card,
device, or inscription to or upon or against any fence, structure, or property
of or on any town park or highway, street, or avenue surrounding the same.
(Prior Code, § 17-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 DISORDERLY BEHAVIOR.
   No person shall curse, swear, or use abusive language or fight, throw
stones, or behave in a riotous or disorderly manner in any town park.
(Prior Code, § 17-19) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 VENDING AND RETAILING.
   No person shall set up any booth, table, stand, or other device for vending
or retailing any article or services, without prior approval of the Town
Administrator or Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 17-20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 FOULING WATER.
   No person shall foul in any manner any pool, spring, drinking fountain, or
stream in any park.
(Prior Code, § 17-21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13 KEEP TO RIGHT.
   All automobiles, vehicles, or equestrians, when meeting on the driveway in
any park, shall keep to the right and also comply with all other requirements
of the traffic ordinances of the town in the use of the driveways by
automobiles or other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 17-22) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 TRESPASSING.
   No person shall go or walk upon any space in the parks reserved for flowers
or other plants or otherwise invade any plot reserved by the town for
shrubbery, grass, or flowers or for any other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 17-23) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.15 DISTURBING PICNICS.
   No person shall disturb or interfere with any picnic or social gathering or
program of any group or persons in any town park.
(Prior Code, § 17-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 DOMESTIC FOWL OR ANIMAL AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any domestic fowl or animal to run at large in any
town park.
(Prior Code, § 17-25) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 FIREARMS, CAMPING, FIREWORKS, AND OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED IN ANY TOWN
PARK AREA; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or discharge a firearm in any town park.
   (B)   No person shall camp overnight in any town park.
   (C)   No person shall possess or discharge fireworks in any town park.
   (D)   No person shall build an open fire in any town park, except in grills
sturdily constructed for safe cooking and minimization of risk of wildfire.
(Prior Code, § 17-30) Penalty, see §
93.99
PUBLIC LIBRARY
§ 93.30 LIBRARY SYSTEM ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.
   A multi-county library system, legally organized and operated according to
the laws of the state in accordance with the State Library Code (65 O.S. §§ 1-
101 et seq.) and the Constitution of the state (Article X, § 10A), serves the
following counties: Custer, Dewey, Roger Mills, and Washita; provided however,
that additional counties may be added to the district if approved by the State
Department of Libraries Board.
(Prior Code, § 19-22)
§ 93.31 GOVERNING BOARD.
   The governing Board of said multi-county library system consists of three
members from each county appointed by the Board of County Commissioners;
provided, that by April 6, 1970, Board membership shall be reconstituted to
conform with the provisions of 65 O.S. § 4-103.
(Prior Code, § 19-23)
§ 93.32 AD VALOREM TAX.
   The multi-county library system is supported by a special recurring ad
valorem tax levy approved by vote of the people for this purpose and by funds
from other sources as provided by the State Library Code, being 65 O.S. §§ 151
et seq., and the Constitution of the state.
(Prior Code, § 19-24)
§ 93.33 TOWN IN DISTRICT.
   (A)   The town is located within the district served by said multi-county
library system legally established and operating.
   (B)   The town is the possessor of the library and operates it for the
benefit of the people of the town, and under the provisions of the State
Library Code, being 65 O.S. §§ 151 et seq., the town is a legal and active
participant in said multi-county library system.
(Prior Code, § 19-25)
§ 93.34 BOARD APPOINTMENT.
   The town agrees to appoint one person to represent the town on the Multi-
County Library Board, at such time as the Multi-County Library Board elects to
come under the provisions of 65 O.S. § 4-103.
(Prior Code, § 19-26)
§ 93.35 LIBRARY INCORPORATED.
   The library is hereby incorporated into the multi-county library in
accordance with the provisions of the State Library Code, being 65 O.S. §§ 151
et seq., and the town will provide maintenance and necessary utility services
of the library quarters, and the multi-county library will assume the operation
and direction of said library and bear all other expenses, except that the town
may, from time to time at its option, appropriate funds for operation and/or
improvements of said library.
(Prior Code, § 19-27)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provisions of
§§
93.01 through
93.17 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided in §
10.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 17-31)
CHAPTER 94: CEMETERIES
Section
Administration
   
94.01   Administration
   
94.02   Cemetery Board created; exception provided
   
94.03   Cemetery Board; duties
   
94.04   Cemetery Care Fund; purchase of lands, investment of funds
   
94.05   Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund; established
   
94.06   Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund; receipts, cemetery records
Rules and Regulations
   
94.20   Purchase of cemetery lot
   
94.21   Municipal responsibilities
   
94.22   General regulations
   
94.23   Construction and maintenance provisions
   
94.24   Grave markers, monuments, vaults, and mausoleums
 
   
94.99   Penalty
ADMINISTRATION
§ 94.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Cemetery shall be controlled and administered by the town through a
Cemetery Board or by the Mayor and Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 6-1)
§ 94.02 CEMETERY BOARD CREATED; EXCEPTION PROVIDED.
   (A)   A Board of Cemetery Trustees is hereby created and established which
shall be composed of three members, appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the Town Board of Trustees. The terms of each member shall be six years, except
that when the Board is first appointed, one member shall serve a term of two
years, one member shall serve a term of four years, and one member shall serve
a term of six years.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the Mayor and Town Board of
Trustees may elect to serve as Trustees for the cemetery. In the event the
Mayor and Town Board of Trustees elect to serve as Trustees of the Cemetery
Board, no Cemetery Board shall be appointed.
   (C)   The Mayor and Town Board of Trustees may, at any time it chooses,
become the Trustees of the Cemetery Board and relinquish such duty when it
deems the same to be in the best interest of the town to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6-2)
§ 94.03 CEMETERY BOARD; DUTIES.
   The Cemetery Board, if created, shall, on the first Monday in January and
July of each year, make a full report to the Town Board of Trustees of all lots
or spaces sold, all monies received and expended by the Board, and make
recommendations for improvement in the maintenance and operation of the
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
§ 94.04 CEMETERY CARE FUND; PURCHASE OF LANDS, INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Twelve and one-half percent of all monies received from donations,
bequests, or sale of lots or spaces shall be segregated and set aside as a
permanent fund to be known as the Cemetery Care Fund. The Cemetery Care Fund
principal shall be expended for purchasing land for cemetery purposes and for
making capital improvements.
   (B)   The balance of the Fund may be invested in the manner provided by law
for investment of municipal funds.
   (C)   The interest from the investment shall be used for the same purposes
as the principal in improving, caring for, and embellishing the lots, spaces,
walks, drives, parks, and other necessary improvements on such cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)
§ 94.05 CEMETERY PERPETUAL CARE FUND; ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Donations or bequests may be made in trust for the special care of
specified lots, spaces, monuments, or mausoleums in the cemetery. These funds
shall be segregated and set aside as a permanent fund to be known as the
Perpetual Care Fund to be invested in like manner as the Cemetery Care Fund. A
separate account shall be kept of each amount so donated or bequeathed for
special care of specified lots or spaces.
   (B)   Only the interest derived from the Perpetual Care Fund shall be used
in the care, maintenance, and repair of such lots, spaces, monuments, and
mausoleums, unless otherwise specified by the donor.
(Prior Code, § 6-5)
§ 94.06 CEMETERY PERPETUAL CARE FUND; RECEIPTS, CEMETERY RECORDS.
   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall execute and deliver to the donor a receipt
showing the amount of money received and the particular use, if any, to be made
of the net proceeds of the money. The attested receipts and all other reports
and papers relevant to the fund shall be filed and recorded by the Town Clerk/
Treasurer in a book to be known as the cemetery record.
(Prior Code, § 6-6)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 94.20 PURCHASE OF CEMETERY LOT.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, shall determine
the price of lots or spaces in the cemetery, as well as certain charges to be
made for other services.
   (B)   Deeds to cemetery lots or spaces shall not be issued until the lots or
spaces are fully paid for. The town shall cause the deeds to be recorded in the
office of the County Clerk immediately after payment in full.
   (C)   Sales are payable in advance at the office of the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (D)   No burial shall be made on any cemetery lots or spaces until said lots
or spaces are fully paid for.
(Prior Code, § 6-11) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 MUNICIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The town will not be responsible for the negligence of undertakers.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees will take every reasonable precaution to
protect all private property of lot and grave owners in the cemetery from loss
or damage, but distinctly disclaims all responsibility for loss or damage from
causes beyond its control, including, but not limited to, vandalism, and from
all acts of providence or winds, tornadoes, fires, hail, snow, and frost,
whether the damage be direct or incidental.
(Prior Code, § 6-12)
§ 94.22 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town must have 24 hours’ notice before a grave opening.
   (B)   Hours of admission to the cemetery shall be from daylight to dark.
   (C)   All persons are prohibited from pulling flowers, breaking any tree,
plants, or shrubs, or in any manner defacing any monument, building, or
structure within the cemetery.
   (D)   No hunting, picnics, intoxicated persons, children (unless accompanied
by parents or guardians), peddlers, solicitors, drinking, gambling, disorderly
conduct, dogs, or livestock shall be allowed in the cemetery at any time.
   (E)   No person shall be allowed to burn any trash or grass inside of the
cemetery or to set fire to any article within the cemetery.
   (F)   No sign shall be placed in the cemetery indicating that lots or spaces
are for sale, nor shall any sign, card, or advertising of any nature be
permitted within the cemetery.
   (G)   No disinterment will be allowed without permission from the Town Board
of Trustees and a permit from the proper authorities.
   (H)   Two bodies shall not be interred into one space, except parent and
infant child or twins. No interment of any body other than that of a human
being will be permitted.
   (I)   No lot or space owner shall have the right to have a body interred
within bounds of a lot or space for remuneration, sale, or hire, without
special permission of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (J)   Disinterment for profit is absolutely forbidden.
   (K)   The Town Board of Trustees expressly reserves the right to make
additions and exceptions to the rules in this chapter deemed beneficial to the
cemetery.
   (L)   From and after May 12, 2003, no person or entity shall plant any tree,
shrub, bush, or flower within the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 6-13) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Both family monuments or grave markers may be erected on all burial
lots or spaces.
   (B)   All lots are marked by the town. Any other boundary posts are
unnecessary.
   (C)   The town shall maintain all lots and spaces unless requested not to by
owners. The town will not be responsible for flowers, grass, or other seeds
planted on cemetery lots or spaces by owners, unless the Town Board of Trustees
is notified.
   (D)   On grass lots or spaces, the mound shall be maintained at ground
level.
   (E)   (1)   In the erection of stone work, no worker shall enter on any lot
or space when the surface is in a soft condition. Before leaving the area of
work, it must be cleaned up.
      (2)   Workers engaged in the erection of stone work cannot attach ropes
to monuments, trees, or permanent structures without special permission from
the Town Board of Trustees.
   (F)   No lots or spaces shall be enclosed except by a sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 6-14) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 GRAVE MARKERS, MONUMENTS, VAULTS, AND MAUSOLEUMS.
   (A)   Grave markers.
      (1)   Granite or marble markers must be of an acceptable quality of at
least four inches in depth and must be set on a foundation except when
extending into the ground 18 inches or more.
      (2)   All lettering and designs on granite or marble markers must be
indented or sunken.
      (3)   The top dimensions of a marker must be no less than ten by 20
inches.
      (4)   Only one marker will be permitted on a space.
      (5)   All markers must be of granite, marble, or U.S. standard statutory
bronze.
   (B)   Monuments.
      (1)   The foundation of all monuments must be at least six inches in
depth with six inches’ extended border, the monument base flush with the
ground. The foundation shall be of wet cement poured in place, or pre-
fabricated base may be used, provided it meets the above six inches standards
and silicon sealing material is used to secure the monument to the pre-
fabricated base.
      (2)   Foundations will be installed by the monument company and debris
hauled away before the monument is set.
      (3)   Only one family monument will be permitted on any lot, and the
monuments on said lot shall be constructed of bronze, granite, or marble.
      (4)   All bronze shall be U.S. standard statutory bronze, and all granite
or marble shall be of good quality.
      (5)   Vaults and mausoleums will be permitted on certain lots designated
by the Town Board of Trustees, when design and construction has been approved
by said Town Board of Trustees.
      (6)   (a)   Vaults built partially or entirely above ground must be
granite, unpolished marble, or reinforced concrete. They must, in all cases, be
furnished with catacombs where interments may be separately made, hermetically
sealed at the time of depositing a body. Walls of vaults erected above ground
must be at least 16 inches in thickness.
         (b)   Any lot owner desiring to erect a vault or mausoleum shall
submit to the Town Board of Trustees a statement in writing, giving the lot
number, the section where the structure is to be placed, and detailed plans and
specifications as to the materials and construction. No work shall be done
until approved by the Town Board of Trustees.
         (c)   No vault or mausoleum shall be built on lots or spaces having
less than 400 feet in area.
   (C)   Prohibitions. The Town Board of Trustees reserves the right to forbid
the placing of any structure or object within the cemetery which they shall
deem objectionable.
(Prior Code, § 6-15) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-21)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
95.07   Exemption
   
95.08   Administration
   
95.09   Education and conciliation
   
95.10   Enforcement
   
95.11   Investigations; subpoenas; giving of evidence
   
95.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
95.13   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
95.14   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-15)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.04 through
95.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock corporations, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupants.
(Prior Code, § 5-16)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
95.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in §
95.04 shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in §
95.04 shall apply to any single-family house sold or rented by an owner;
provided that such private individual owner does not own more than three such
single-family houses at any one time; provided further that in the case of the
sale of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing
in such house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident
of such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (B)
shall apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period.
      (2)   Provided further that such bona fide private individual owner does
not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf,
under any express or voluntary agreement, title to, or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale of rental of, more than three such
single-family houses at any one time.
      (3)   Provided further that the sale or rental of any such single-family
house shall be excepted from the applications of this title only if such house
is sold or rented without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson, or person and without the publication, posting, or mailing,
after notice of any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title, or rooms or units in
dwellings containing living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no
more than four families living independently of each other, if the owner
actually maintains and occupies one of such living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
IN THE BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING DWELLINGS if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent other than in the sales or his or her own personal residence in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by or occupied by five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 5-17) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §§
95.03 and
95.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, or familial status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provisions of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, or familial status;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental or
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, sex, color, religion, or national origin, handicap, or familial status,
or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available; or
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons, of a particular race, sex, color,
religion, or national origin, handicap, or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 5-18) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building, or loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, construction, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance, because of the race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, or familial status of such person or of any person associated
with him or her in connection with such loan or other financial assistance, or
of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given; provided, that nothing contained in this
section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
95.03.
(Prior Code, § 5-19) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, rental, or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or
her in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, handicap, or familial
status.
(Prior Code, § 5-20) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such person, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, sex, color,
national origin, handicap, or familial status. Nor shall anything in this
chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an
incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or
operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or
occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its
members.
(Prior Code, § 5-21)
§ 95.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering the act shall be in
the Chief Executive Officer of the town.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties, and powers to employees of the town or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties, and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or
otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter under this chapter. The
Chief Executive Officer shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his or her hearing examiners or to himself or herself as shall be
appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-22)
§ 95.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purpose of this chapter. He or she shall conference with persons in the housing
industry and other interest parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it and shall
endeavor, with their advice, to work other programs of voluntary compliance and
of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 5-23)
§ 95.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by
a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter person
aggrieved) may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be such form as the
Chief Executive Officer requires.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Chief Executive Officer shall
furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons who allegedly committed or
about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days
after receiving a complaint or within 30 days after the expiration of any
period of reference under division (C) below, the Chief Executive Officer shall
investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved
whether he or she intends to resolve it.
      (3)   If the Chief Executive Officer decides to resolve the complaints,
he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged
discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the aggregations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive
Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The Chief Executive Officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   (1)   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the persons aggrieved
may, within 30 days hereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate
court, against the respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights
granted or protected by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the
subject of the complaint.
      (2)   If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from
engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   (E)   If any proceeding is brought against this section, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Chief Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 5-24)
§ 95.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Chief Executive Officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and
copy such materials and take record the testimony or statements of such persons
as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided
however, that the Chief Executive Officer first complies with the provisions of
the Fourth Amendment of the United States Constitution relating to unreasonable
searches and seizures. The Chief Executive Officer may issue subpoena to
complete his or her access to or the production of such materials, or the
appearance of such person and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the
same extent and subject to the same limitations that would apply if the
subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in
the United States District Court for the district in which the investigation is
taking place. The Chief Executive Officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the Chief Executive Officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show
on their face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they
were issued at this request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Executive Officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in the United States District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The Chief Executive Officer shall grant the petition if he or she
finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable
time or place, that it does not relate to any matter under investigation, that
it does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced,
that compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief
Executive Officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the Municipal or State Court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, to transact
business.
   (F)   The Town Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Chief
Executive Officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-25) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
95.04 through
95.06 may be enforced by civil action in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided however, that the
court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
95.10 from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes that
the conciliation efforts of the Chief Executive Officer are likely to result in
satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complaint made
to the Chief Executive Officer and which practice forms the basis for the
action in court, and provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance, or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be effected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the case of
a prevailing plaintiff. Provided, that the said plaintiff, in the opinion of
the court, is not financially able to assume said attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 5-26)
§ 95.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
95.04 through
95.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Prior Code, § 5-27) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, or familial status and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of person from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, national origin, handicap, or familial status, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in this section;
or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Prior Code, § 5-29) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any employee of the Chief Executive Officer who shall make public any
information in violation of §
95.10(A) and shall be (upon conviction) fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-24)
   (C)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the Chief Executive Officer, as described in §
95.11, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisonment not more than one
year, or both.
(Prior Code, § 5-25)
   (D)   Any citizen because he or she is nor has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, or familial status, in any of
the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
95.14 or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to so participate shall be guilty of an offense and
shall be punished as provided for in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-29)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   OIL AND GAS DRILLING
      
112.   ALCOHOL
      
113.   MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Occupations subject to license or registration
   
110.02   Sale of merchandise on vacant property
   
110.03   Shooting galleries
   
110.04   Short weights and measures prohibited
   
110.05   Itinerant occupations
Occupation Licenses and Taxes
   
110.20   Licenses and taxes
   
110.21   Transfer of license prohibited
   
110.22   Revocation of license
   
110.23   Suspension of license
   
110.24   Expiration of license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 OCCUPATIONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE OR REGISTRATION.
   Occupations other than itinerant occupations which are subject to license or
registration under other provisions of this code include:
   (A)   Alcoholic beverage manufacturers, distributors, and sellers;
   (B)   Non-alcoholic beverage retail dealers;
   (C)   Pet shops and kennels;
   (D)   Plumbers; and
   (E)   Electricians.
(Prior Code, § 5-35)
§ 110.02 SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON VACANT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, trade, or
transfer any merchandise of any kind on or in any vacant property without the
consent of the owner or person exercising dominion over said property.
(Prior Code, § 5-36) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 SHOOTING GALLERIES.
   Every shooting gallery constructed, established, set up, or operated
hereafter within the corporate limits of the town shall be constructed,
established, set up, and operated in accordance with the standards,
specifications, and requirements of state law. No shooting gallery shall be
operated until any permits or licenses required by this code of ordinances have
been secured therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-37) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell or offer
for sale any food, fuel, clothing, or any other commodity which does not weigh
or measure fully as much, according to standard weights or measures of the
state, as the weight or measure for which it is sold or offered for sale.
(Prior Code, § 5-38) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ITINERANT OCCUPATIONS. Those occupations, trades, and businesses having
no permanent warehouse, building, structure, residence, or place of business
within the town at which a permanent business is carried on throughout the year
or usual production season in good faith (and not for the purpose of evading
the provisions of this section) and shall include occupations, trades, and
businesses housed in temporary stands or quarters (including permanent quarters
occupied pursuant to any temporary arrangement) or carried on by means of
house-to-house solicitation upon the streets and sidewalks of the town;
provided however, that no occupation, trade, or business engaged in a
charitable, educational, or religious organization, association, or club,
having a membership duly enrolled in accordance with the rules, regulations,
and bylaws of said organization, association, or club and the majority of said
members being residents of the town or of the county shall be considered an
ITINERANT OCCUPATION.
(Prior Code, § 5-10)
   (B)   Itinerant occupation licenses; fees.
      (1)   It shall be an offense for any persons to engage in any kind of
itinerant occupation in the town without first having obtained an itinerant
occupation license from the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   There is hereby levied an itinerant occupation tax in the amount of
$10 per day or $50 per year against persons, firms, associations, and
corporations engaged in itinerant occupations within the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-11)
   (C)   Itinerant occupation license provisions.
      (1)   Every person, firm, association, or corporation who engages in an
occupation or business for which an itinerant occupation license is required
shall pay the tax and secure a separate license for each such business or
occupation.
      (2)   Every holder of an itinerant occupation license shall carry the
license and shall display it to any person who requests to see it.
      (3)   Whenever an itinerant occupation license has been lost or destroyed
without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the Town Clerk/Treasurer,
on application, may issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before
the duplicate is issued, the holder shall make and file with said Town Clerk/
Treasurer an affidavit that the license has not been transferred, that is has
been lost or destroyed without any wrongful act or connivance by the holder,
and that, if believed lost, has made a diligent search for it and has not been
able to find it. The fee for every duplicate license issued shall be $3.
      (4)   No person, firm, association, or corporation to whom an itinerant
occupation license has been issued shall conduct or pursue the business or
occupation for which such license is issued at any time on a Sunday or holiday
or between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. (on the following day), on any
day unless expressly authorized by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-12)
Penalty, see §
110.99
OCCUPATION LICENSES AND TAXES
§ 110.20 LICENSES AND TAXES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees hereby levies a license tax upon
occupations as set forth in this chapter and elsewhere in this code. The taxes
so levied shall be collected by the Town Clerk/Treasurer prior to issuance of
each license.
   (B)   Revenues from said taxes shall be deposited by the Town Clerk/
Treasurer into the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 5-1)
Cross-reference:
   Sales tax, use tax, and gross receipts tax, see
Chapter 34
§ 110.21 TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   No license shall be assigned or transferred.
(Prior Code, § 5-2) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   A license may be revoked by the Town Board of Trustees, after adequate
notice and opportunity for hearing, if:
   (A)   The licensing is pursuing or engaging in a business or occupation in
such a manner that he or she has created or is creating a public nuisance; or
   (B)   The licensee has committed a serious or repeated violation of state
law or municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-3)
§ 110.23 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   A license may be suspended by the Town Board of Trustees in any case in
which revocation action has been initiated. A suspension of license may remain
in effect until conclusion of revocation action or for 45 days, whichever
occurs first.
(Prior Code, § 5-4)
§ 110.24 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued by the Town Board shall expire one year after the date of
issuance or on June 30 each year, unless earlier specified.
(Prior Code, § 5-5)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as
provided for in §
10.99. In addition to any such fine and costs, any license issued hereunder may
be revoked. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-45)
CHAPTER 111: OIL AND GAS DRILLING
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permits
   
111.03   Permit regulations and bond
   
111.04   Applications for permits; explosives, locations of wells
   
111.05   Pooling of town lots or blocks
   
111.06   Right to refuse drilling permits
   
111.07   Zoning
   
111.08   Annual fee
   
111.09   Drilling and operation regulations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A tract of land within the corporate limits of the town, having for
its exterior boundaries, public streets, roads, highways, corporate limits of
the town, railway right-of-way, roads, or streets and highways shown on the
recorded plat of the town and additions thereto, but which are not open for
public use or bounded at its exterior limits by a combination of such.
Provided, however, if the laws and regulations of the United States of the
state prevent, or make it impracticable to drill an oil well in an area as
small as a town block, then it is the intention of this chapter that the word
BLOCK as here used shall mean and include, and be construed to mean and
include, such area of the town in addition to an ordinary block or blocks, as
will make the total area great enough to comply with such laws and regulations.
   OIL WELL. The ordinary and accepted meaning of such expression or name and,
in addition thereto, the term shall also include a natural gas well, casing
head gas well, and salt water well.
   PERSON. In both the singular and plural, the term shall have the ordinary
and accepted meaning of the word PERSON, and in addition thereto, shall include
any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or any other entity
operating as a person, partnership, association, or a corporation.
(Prior Code, § 16-1)
§ 111.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drill, maintain, or operate an oil or gas well
within the corporate limits of the town, except by a permit to do so, obtained
as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Each such permit shall cover and provide for the drilling,
maintaining, and operating of one oil or gas well only, and more than one oil
or gas well shall be drilled in any block; provided however, that, at the
discretion of the Town Board of Trustees, a permit as herein provided for may
be issued for the drilling of a second well in any one or more blocks, if the
first well is producing in substantially paying quantities. Such second well
may then be drilled to a new horizon and/or source of supply, where such new
horizon, sand, or source of supply is substantially different from that to
which the first well was drilled and in which the first well is operating.
(Prior Code, § 16-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 PERMIT REGULATIONS AND BOND.
   Permits for drilling, maintaining, and operating oil and gas wells in the
town shall be granted only to responsible persons who have met, to the
satisfaction of the Town Board of Trustees, all of the following requirements:
   (A)   Payment of $500 to the Town Clerk/Treasurer for:
      (1)   The issuance of such permit; and
      (2)   The annual fee for the first year of police, safety, and sanitary
inspection.
   (B)   Depositing with the Town Clerk/Treasurer, to become and remain a part
of the permanent records of the municipality, a valid and legal consent, in
writing, fully executed and acknowledged by the owner of the lot where the oil
or gas well is to be drilled, agreeing that all rents and royalties accruing
from oil, gas, or casing head gas produced from said well shall be prorated
among all the owners of the oil, gas, and other mineral rights in and under
said block, in the proportion that each owner’s interest in the block bears to
the whole of the block;
   (C)   Depositing with the Town Clerk/Treasurer, to become and maintain a
part of the permanent records of the municipality, a valid and legal consent,
in writing, fully executed and acknowledged by the owner or owners of not less
than 51% of the oil, gas, and other mineral rights of the block in well upon
the lot or lots as indicated in such application; and
   (D)   Depositing with the Town Clerk/Treasurer, to become and remain a part
of the permanent records of the municipality, good and sufficient bonds
covering each separate oil well for which permits are requested, executed by
one or more responsible bonding, insurance, or indemnity companies authorized
to do business within the state, such bond to run in the name of the town and
be conditioned that the applicant will pay for injury to the person or damages
to real or personal property, including death, drilling, operation, or
machinery, tanks pipe line or appurtenances thereto, and that such applicant
will also abide by and comply with all the provisions of this and other
ordinances of the municipality.
      (1)   Such bond or bonds shall further provide that insolvency or
bankruptcy of the insured shall not release the insurance company from any
payment due under such bond or bonds. If by reason of such insolvency or
bankruptcy, an execution on the judgment against the insured is returned and
unsatisfied, the judgment creditor shall have a right of action against the
insurance company to recover the amount of said judgment to the same extent
that the insured would have had to recover against the company, the insured
paid judgment.
      (2)   Such bond or bonds shall further provide against the cancellation
until 30 days’ notice in writing of such intended cancellation shall have been
given the Town Board of Trustees by the delivery of written notice to the Town
Clerk/Treasurer. Upon such notice being given, the person to whom such permit
has been issued shall be immediately notified thereof, and if such person shall
fail within 30 days after having received notice of such intended cancellation
to provide other sufficient bond or bonds in compliance with the terms and
provisions of this chapter, then the permit issued to such person shall be
automatically suspended for all purposes, and ah operations being carried on
under such permit shall cease until such other sufficient bond or bonds have
been posted with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and approved, by motion of the Town
Board of Trustees, at a regular or special meeting.
      (3)   Such bond or bonds, among other things, shall cover and indemnify
such town and the inhabitations thereof against loss of or damage to private or
public water supply.
      (4)   The total liability under such bond or bonds, in the case of each
oil or gas well, shall not be less than $50,000 and shall be made for a period
of not less than one year, and no oil or gas well shall be drilled, maintained,
or operated at any time or for any period of time, without currently valid and
legal bonds or bonds in such amount being on deposit with said Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 16-3)
§ 111.04 APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS; EXPLOSIVES, LOCATIONS OF WELLS.
   (A)   Application for permits to drill, operate, and maintain oil or gas
wells in the town filed with the Town Clerk/Treasurer, and said Town Clerk/
Treasurer, upon authorization of the Town Board of Trustees, shall issue
permits, by motion.
   (B)   Such permits shall, without so stating, also permit the use of such
explosives and amounts thereof as are used in such operations, but shall not
permit the storage of any amount of explosive, at any time, within the town.
   (C)   Applications shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or some
person in his, her, or its behalf duly authorized, and shall state the block
and exact lot and location thereof where the proposed oil well will be drilled.
There shall be attached thereto a list of the persons owning or having an
interest in any of the lots in the block together with the last known post
office address of each of them.
(Prior Code, § 16-4)
§ 111.05 POOLING OF TOWN LOTS OR BLOCKS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent, or be construed to prevent, the
pooling of lots or blocks of the town with land adjacent to and outside the
corporate limits of the town, for gas or oil wells drilled, maintained, or
operated on any of such lots or blocks, so pooled without compliance with this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-5)
§ 111.06 RIGHT TO REFUSE DRILLING PERMITS.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, the Town Board of Trustees
may, at its discretion, refuse to grant to any person a permit to drill,
maintain, or operate an oil or gas well within the corporate limits of the town
and may refuse to grant a renewal of any prior permit granted; provided
however, that the applicant for such permit or renewal thereof has not obtained
a vested property right in reliance upon his or her right to obtain such permit
or renewal, prior to the effective date of the original ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 16-6)
§ 111.07 ZONING.
   Oil, gas, or disposal wells shall be located only in those zoning districts
which permit such uses, as outlined in the municipality’s adopted zoning
ordinance, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 16-7) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 ANNUAL FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual police, safety, and sanitary
inspection fee of $500 for the first year and $100 for each succeeding year
thereafter, for each oil or gas well drilled, operated, or maintained in the
town.
   (B)   The initial fee paid with and accompanying the application in the
first instance shall also include the granting of the permit.
   (C)   Each successive annual fee paid after the first shall also cover and
include permission to continue such drilling, operation, and maintenance
operations.
(Prior Code, § 16-8)
§ 111.09 DRILLING AND OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   In the drilling, operation, and maintenance of any oil or gas wells in the
town, all of such operations shall be subject to the following regulations, and
violations thereof are hereby declared unlawful and an offense.
   (A)   No oil, liquid with oil content, gasoline, other oil product, surface
mud, rotary mud, sand, or salt water shall be disposed of by draining or
diverting the same into or upon any public highway, street, alley, drainage
ditch, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, gutter, or paving. Nor shall any such
substances be permitted to escape from the property owned, leased, or
controlled by the person carrying on such operations by seepage or overflow.
   (B)   No steam, gasoline, natural gas, diesel, or other internal combustion
engine, shall be operated within corporate limits of the town without being
muffled so as not to create a nuisance.
   (C)   All slush pits and other excavations shall be filled and leveled off
upon the completion of any oil or gas well, or upon the abandonment of any of
the operations covered in this chapter.
   (D)   All storage tanks, or other tanks intended to contain inflammable
substances, shall be protected by earthen embankments constructed about the
same in such manner as to adequately contain all the contents or installed
nearer than 30 feet to any dwelling house, established business structure,
church, or school building.
   (E)   No oil or gas well shall be drilled, operated, or maintained, nor
shall any of the operation in connection therewith be carried on, nearer than
100 feet, by the shortest distance, to any previously established church or
school building.
   (F)   Approved equipment, devices, and methods for the safety of life and
property, such as are commonly known in the oil drilling and producing
business, must be used in the municipality in the carrying on of all the
operations covered by this chapter, and the failure to use any of such
equipment, devices, or methods in any substantially important operation, shall
be grounds for immediately stopping further work until such failure has been
corrected.
   (G)   The premises upon which any oil or gas well is drilled, operated, or
maintained shall be kept free from accumulations of rubbish, litter, unused
materials, or equipment, excessive rotary mud and slush pits waste oil or oil
substances, or other waste oil product, so far as such premises may be
reasonably kept free of the same in carrying on the operations covered by this
chapter.
   (H)   Where, in the installation, erection, or construction of work being
done by virtue of permits issued under this chapter, sidewalks or the surface
of streets, alleys, other rights-of-way, or any other public property is
disturbed, damaged, or destroyed, the same must be replaced or restored to its
original condition, or better, in as short a period of time thereafter as may
be reasonably done.
   (I)   (1)   All derricks must be erected and operated in compliance with the
rules, regulations, and specifications promulgated by the Corporation
Commission of the state and the various departments of said Commission.
      (2)   Failure to abide by such rules and regulations and specifications
in the case of any substantially important operation shall, in addition to the
other penalties provided in this chapter, automatically operate as a forfeiture
and cancellation of all permits obtained in the case of the particular well
where such violations occur, and automatically terminate the right to continue
such work or any part thereof, excepting such as may be necessary for safety or
to prevent serious loss. Such operation shall not be continued until a new
permit has been obtained and paid for on the same basis as a new and original
permit.
   (J)   Full and accurate drilling floor information, and any and all other
full and accurate information operations under permits procured under this
chapter, shall be furnished the Chief of Police, the Town Board of Trustees, or
any of its duly authorized agents at any time. Such information shall be
supplied upon demand and without unnecessary delay.
   (K)   Full police authority for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter are hereby given to the Chief of Police or to any other duly
authorized agent of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (L)   No pipelines of any kind, no power transmissions systems of any kind,
no communication systems of any kind, and no other transmission systems of any
kind shall be erected or installed in, along, across, under, or over any
street, alley, highway, or railroad right-of-way in the town, except by special
consent, by motion, of the Town Board of Trustees.
   (M)   At the conclusion of drilling operations, a fence shall be erected
around both the well and the machinery used in connection with the operation of
the well.
(Prior Code, § 16-15) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day such violation is committed or continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense and be punishable as such. In addition, violation
of any of the provisions hereof declared to be a public nuisance shall be a
basis for injunction at the suit of the town or at the suit of any person,
firm, or corporation adversely affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 16-20)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act adopted
   
112.02   Definitions and interpretations
Alcoholic or Intoxicating Beverages
   
112.15   Occupation tax
   
112.16   Payment required
   
112.17   Annual report
   
112.18   Application for certificate; investigations
   
112.19   Issuance of certificate of compliance
   
112.20   Retail package stores
Low-Point Beer
   
112.35   Definitions
   
112.36   License
   
112.37   Retail dealers in low-point beer beverages
   
112.38   Location restrictions for certain retail dealers
   
112.39   Hours of sale
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic or intoxicating beverage offenses, see §
131.10
   Contributing to the delinquency of minors, see §
133.02
   Low-point beer offenses, see §
131.11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ACT ADOPTED.
   The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq., as
amended) is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in the code of
ordinances of the town. Applicable provisions of the Act are hereby declared to
be in full force, as if included herein in complete detail.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   All words, phrases, and terms used in this and other chapters relating to
the use of alcoholic beverages and not defined herein, shall be interpreted and
construed in conformity with the definitions of the same set forth in the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being 37A O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq. For the purpose
of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGES. Beverages containing more than 3.2% alcohol by
weight.
   LOW-POINT BEER. Beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume and
not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
ALCOHOLIC OR INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 112.15 OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual occupation tax on every
business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages as specifically
enumerated herein and in the amount herein stated:
      (1)   Brewer: $1,250;
      (2)   Distiller: $3,125;
      (3)   Winemaker: $625;
      (4)   State winemaker: $75;
      (5)   Rectifier: $3,125;
      (6)   Wholesaler: $3,500;
      (7)   Class B wholesaler: $625;
      (8)   Retail package store: $305;
      (9)   Bottle club:
         (a)   Initial: $1,000; and
         (b)   Renewal: $900.
      (10)   Agent: $55 (initial);
      (11)   Carrier: $23 (initial);
      (12)   Storage: $23 (per day); and
      (13)   Special event: $55 (per day).
   (B)   The occupation tax for those war veteran organizations which are
exempt under I.R.C. § 501(c)(19), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(19), for bottle club
licenses shall be $500 per year.
   (C)   If a brewer or a class B wholesaler also holds a license from the
state to manufacture or wholesale any low-point beer, the occupation tax for
such brewer or class B wholesaler shall be reduced by 75%.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
§ 112.16 PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any state licensee originally entering upon any occupation herein
listed shall pay the tax therefore at the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer on
or before the date upon which he enters upon such occupation. Said licensee
shall provide a copy of his or her current state license before payment of an
occupation tax will be accepted. Thereafter, the licensee shall pay the tax
annually on or before July 1.
   (B)   The occupation tax subject to this chapter shall be prorated on a
monthly basis for the year in which an occupation begins operations.
   (C)   Upon payment of the said occupation tax, the Town Clerk/Treasurer
shall issue a receipt to said state licensee. Said licensee shall post the
receipt in a conspicuous place on the premises wherein he or she carries on his
or her occupation.
(Prior Code, § 2-6) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall make an annual report to the ABLE Commission,
covering the fiscal year, showing the number and class of licensees subject to
the occupation tax and the amount of money collected from said tax.
(Prior Code, § 2-7)
§ 112.18 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the Fire, Health,
and Safety Codes of the town required by 37 O.S. shall apply at the office of
the Town Clerk/Treasurer by:
      (1)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office;
and
      (2)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount as set by
the Town Board of Trustees at the time of filing.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of compliance, the
Town Clerk/Treasurer shall cause an investigation to be made to determine
whether the premises proposed for licensed operations comply with the
provisions of any Health, Fire, Building, and other Safety Codes applicable to
it.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall act on all such applications within 20
days of receipt thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 112.19 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is in
compliance with all applicable Fire, Safety, and Health Codes, a certificate of
compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission.
   (B)   The certificate of compliance in division (A) shall be signed by the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-9)
§ 112.20 RETAIL PACKAGE STORES.
   (A)   The location of a retail package store is specifically prohibited
within 300 feet of a public school, or any church property primarily and
regularly used for worship services and religious activities; provided that, if
any such church or school shall be established within 300 feet of any licensed
retail premises after such premises have been licensed, this shall not be a bar
to the renewal of such license so long as it has been in continuous force and
effect, The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such church or school to the nearest public entrance
door of the premises of such package store, along the street right-of-way line
providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by pedestrians between such
points. For the purpose of determining measured distance, property situated on
the opposite side of the street from such church or school shall be considered
as if it were located on the same side of the street with such church or
school. A license shall not be issued for a location on any block where a
school or church is located.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain, or to
assist in the operation or maintenance of, any retail package store when the
premises are not separated from the premises on which any other goods, wares,
or merchandise are sold or services are rendered, by nontransparent wails
(which may be broken by a passageway to which the public is not admitted). It
shall be unlawful for any person to take any alcoholic beverage from such store
through said passageway to which the public is not admitted, for the purpose of
selling, reselling, or delivering in connection with the sale of said alcoholic
beverages.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license for a retail
package store, or any employee or agent thereof, to keep the premises of the
retail package store open tor the purpose of selling, or to sell, any alcoholic
beverages at any hour other than between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
Monday through Saturday; or to keep such premises open for such purposes on the
day of any general, primary, runoff primary or special election while the polls
are open; or on New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day,
Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day.
   (D)   Retail package stores may sell alcoholic beverages only in retail
containers in the original package for consumption off the premises and only at
ordinary room temperature.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license for a retail
package store, or any employee or agent thereof, to:
      (1)   Knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish any alcoholic beverages to any
person under 21 years of age, an intoxicated person, or any person who has been
adjudged insane or mentally deficient;
      (2)   Employ any person under 21 years of age in the selling or handling
of alcoholic beverages;
      (3)   Permit any person under 21 years of age to enter into, remain
within, or loiter about a licensed premises; or
      (4)   Permit any person to open a retail container or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail package store.
(Prior Code, § 2-10) Penalty, see §
112.99
LOW-POINT BEER
§ 112.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any person, firm, corporation, association, or concessionaire
who sells, distributes, or dispenses, at retail, any low-point beer within the
corporate limits of the town, without regard as to any place where such
beverages may be consumed or used.
(Prior Code, § 2-15)
§ 112.36 LICENSE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied upon each retail dealer of low-point beer for
consumption on and off the premises, an annual municipal license fee of $20. An
annual license fee of $10 is hereby levied upon each retail dealer for sale of
low-point beer for consumption off the premises only.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any retail dealer, whether permanent or
temporary, to sell, distribute, or dispense any low-point beer without having
first received a municipal occupation license, as herein required.
   (C)   No municipal occupation license shall be issued to any retail dealer
by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, until the applicant has obtained all required
state and county permits. All such occupation licenses shall expire on June 30
of the year following reissuance. License fees shall be paid to the Town Clerk/
Treasurer, and no license shall be transferable from one person to another.
   (D)   The Town Board shall have the power, after public hearing, to revoke
any license granted hereunder for violation of law or ordinance by the license
holder.
(Prior Code, § 2-16) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.37 RETAIL DEALERS IN LOW-POINT BEER BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation operating or
maintaining a place of business where low-point beer is sold for consumption on
the premises to:
   (A)   Sell, offer for sale, give away, procure for, or otherwise dispense
to, any person under 21 years of age any low-point beer;
   (B)   Permit any person under 21 years of age to loiter or remain in or
around such place of business, except where such business is an eating place
where the service of such beer is incidental to the main business of serving
food, unless said person’s parent or legal guardian is present;
   (C)   Employ any person under 21 years of age to work in such a place,
except where said place is an eating place where the service of such beer is
incidental to the main business of serving food;
   (D)   Sell, deliver, or knowingly furnish low-point beer to an intoxicated
person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally deficient;
   (E)   Permit therein gambling, betting, or operation of a lottery;
   (F)   Permit sale, furnishing, or drinking of intoxicating liquor; or
   (G)   Permit disorderly conduct, loud or disturbing language, or any other
violation of state law or of the code of ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-17) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.38 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS FOR CERTAIN RETAIL DEALERS.
   It shall be unlawful for retail dealers who sell low-point beer for
consumption on the premises to be located within 300 feet from any public
school or church; provided however, that if any public school or church shall
be established within 300 feet of any such retail dealer, license renewal shall
not be affected adversely so long as there has not been a lapse of more than 60
days.
(Prior Code, § 2-18) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.39 HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful and a criminal offense for low-point beer (as herein
defined) to be sold, given away, or otherwise dispensed for consumption on the
premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day, except
Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 2-19) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violation any provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and cost as provided for in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense. In addition to any fine or imprisonment, any license issued hereunder
may be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 2-50)
   (B)   Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by §
112.16 without paying said occupation tax imposed therefor in advance of such
operation is guilty of an offense against the town and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by fine, costs, and imprisonment as provided for in
§
10.99. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-6)
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
112.20 shall be guilty of a criminal offense and shall be fined and/or
imprisoned in accordance with §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 2-10)
CHAPTER 113: MARIJUANA
Section
   
113.01   Retail marijuana establishments
   
113.02   Prohibited facilities
   
113.03   Inspection
   
113.04   Marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use; security
   
113.05   Smell or noxious odor
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   All operators of retail marijuana establishments are required to
obtain a retail marijuana establishment permit from the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT is defined as any retail marijuana establishment
licensed by the state.
   (B)   The municipal governing body will establish by resolution a fee to
obtain the retail marijuana establishment permit. The fee shall be used to
offset municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration, and enforcement of retail marijuana establishments.
   (C)   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location is on or adjacent to Third Street, Main
Street, Howell Street, or West Highway 55 to the boundaries of the town.
   (D)   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within 1,320 feet of
any of the following uses:
      (1)   Private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational, or
trade school, college, or university;
      (2)   Any library or museum;
      (3)   Any public playground;
      (4)   Any child care center;
      (5)   Any place of worship or religious assembly;
      (6)   Any public park, pool, or recreation facility;
      (7)   Any juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility, or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      (8)   Any residence or residentially zoned district; or
      (9)   Within 1,320 feet of another medical marijuana or retail marijuana
store.
   (E)   For the distance requirements outlined in this chapter, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
division (C) above is located to the nearest property line of the building or
unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located.
   (F)   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off-
premises.
   (G)   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail marijuana establishment permit.
   (H)   It is the intent of the town that nothing in this chapter be construed
to:
      (1)   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a
public nuisance;
      (2)   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      (3)   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 6-22-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 PROHIBITED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Commercial marijuana growth facilities are hereby prohibited within
the municipal boundaries of the town.
   (B)   Wholesale marijuana facilities are hereby prohibited within the
municipal boundaries of the town.
   (C)   Marijuana storage facilities other than in a retail outlet are hereby
prohibited within the municipal boundaries of the town.
   (D)   Marijuana processing facilities are hereby prohibited within the
municipality of the town.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 6-22-2018; Ord. 2019-2, passed 3-11-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)    All permits outlined in this chapter will be subject to inspection by
an authorized municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   (B)   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the Municipal Inspector.
   (C)   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 6-22-2018)
§ 113.04 MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL MEDICAL USE; SECURITY.
   (A)   All owners of marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use
are required to obtain a permit from the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The municipal governing body will establish by resolution a fee to
obtain the marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use permit. The
fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to
licensing, inspection, administration, and enforcement of marijuana growing
facilities for personal medical use.
   (C)   All marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use shall be
subject to security provisions as stated herein prior to the granting of a
permit. Failing to comply with security provisions as stated herein will result
in revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for marijuana
cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key or
equivalent, at all times except when the residential facility is actively being
supervised in person by the permit holder.
   (E)   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to the
interior of a single private residence.
   (F)   The growing area, including any lighting, plumbing, or electrical
components used, shall comply with municipal Building and Fire Codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold, or
other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed 1,000 watts per light. The
use of gas products (CO2, butane, and the like) or CO2 and ozone generators in
the growing area is prohibited.
   (G)   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes
a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing
marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor, or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (H)   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is
grown shall remain at all times a residence with legal and functioning cooking,
eating, sleeping, and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper ingress and
egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such cultivation will
impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating, sleeping, or sanitation/
bathing.
   (I)   If the residence is rented, consent of the property owner shall be
obtained prior to any cultivation commencing. This consent must be evidenced by
a signed and notarized statement from the property owner permitting the growth
of marijuana in the residence.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 6-22-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 SMELL OR NOXIOUS ODOR.
   The smell or noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of marijuana
by a person possessing a valid state-issued medical marijuana license shall be
treated as a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 6-22-2018)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as
provided for in §
10.99. In addition to any such fine and costs, any license issued hereunder may
be revoked. Each day upon which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-45)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY, MORALITY, AND POLICY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Offense defined
   
130.02   Attempts to commit an offense
   
130.03   Effect of intoxication
   
130.04   Aiding in an offense
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 OFFENSE DEFINED.
   An OFFENSE is hereby defined as the doing of any act or thing which, by this
title or any ordinance of the town, is prohibited, forbidden, or declared to be
unlawful, or the failure or refusal to do any act or perform any duty which, by
any provision of this title or by any ordinance of the town, is commanded or
required to be done.
(Prior Code, § 15-1)
§ 130.02 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the code of
ordinances of the town and, in such attempt, does any act toward the commission
of such offense, but fails, is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration
thereof, shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished in the manner
prescribed for the offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 15-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EFFECT OF INTOXICATION.
   No act committed by any person while in a state of voluntary intoxication,
whether from alcoholic beverages or drugs, shall be deemed less an offense by
reason of his or her being in such condition.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)
§ 130.04 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such shall be guilty of an
offense and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 15-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
title shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine and costs as provided in §
10.99. Each day’s continuation of any such violation shall be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-100)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY, MORALITY, AND POLICY
Section
   
131.01   Gambling prohibited
   
131.02   False or bogus checks
   
131.03   Harmful deception
   
131.04   Loitering
   
131.05   Offenses relating to controlled dangerous substances
   
131.06   Illicit use of certain chemical compounds
   
131.07   Immoral conduct, shows, or exhibitions; nudity
   
131.08   Prostitution; illicit sexual relations
   
131.09   Certain conduct prohibited on or near school grounds
   
131.10   Alcoholic or intoxicating beverages
   
131.11   Low-point beer
   
131.12   Truancy
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol regulations generally, see
Chapter 112
   Marijuana regulations generally, see
Chapter 113
§ 131.01 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation (or agent or employee thereof) shall play,
open, or cause to be opened, operate, carry on, or conduct any game of
roulette, craps, or any percentage played with dice, for money, checks, chips,
credit, or any other things of value; or shall set up, operate, or permit to be
operated any slot machine or other device whatsoever where money, checks,
chips, credit, or any other things of value are played, when the act of playing
the same might result in a gain or loss to the party playing; or shall gamble
knowingly in any other similar manner; or knowingly shall permit his, her, or
its premises, houses, lots, or other property to be used in connection with or
for, any act declared unlawful in this title.
(Prior Code, § 15-10) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat or defraud,
to obtain, or attempt to obtain, from any person, firm, or corporation, any
money, property, or valuable thing, of the value of $50 or less, by means of
any false or bogus check or by any other written, printed, or engraved
instrument or spurious coin. The term FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK shall include checks
or orders given for money or property which are not honored on account of
insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer
thereof.
   (B)   The making, drawing, issuing, or delivering of a check, draft, or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit
with, such bank or other depository; provided, such maker or drawer shall not
have paid the drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees,
within five days from the date the same is presented for payment; and, provided
further, that said check or order is presented for payment with 30 days after
same is delivered and accepted.
(Prior Code, § 15-11) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another (whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise), when such deception results
in, or contributes to, the loss, damage, harm, or injury of the person deceived
or of a third party or results in or contributes to the benefit of the
deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 15-12) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 LOITERING.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
      (2)   (a)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstances makes it
impractical, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself or herself
and to explain his or her presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of
an offense under this section if the police officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
person was true and, if it had been believed by the police officer at the time,
would have dispelled the alarm.
         (b)   Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by
a police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall, or that portion of private
property utilized for public use so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to block, obstruct, or prevent
free access to the entrance to any building open to the public.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beacons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passers-by in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop
motor vehicles by engaging their operators in hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution.
      (2)   No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (C) unless
the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain his or
her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division (C) if it
appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. An area generally visible to public view, including
streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots,
automobiles (whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public,
including those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the
doorways and entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing
them.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 OFFENSES RELATING TO CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of any narcotic or
other controlled dangerous substance, to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley, place of business, or other public place within the town, or for any
person to use any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance upon or in
any street, alley, place of business or other public place within said town, or
for any person to use any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance in
any place within said town, except as legally prescribed by a physician
licensed to practice medicine, or for any person to loiter about a place where
any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance is sold or furnished
illegally, or for any person to sell or furnish illegally to another person any
narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance, or for any person to be in
possession of any narcotic or other controlled dangerous substance in any place
within said town, except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed to
practice medicine.
(Prior Code, § 15-14) (Ord. 335, passed 1-5-1984) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 ILLICIT USE OF CERTAIN CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliberately smell, inhale,
breathe, drink, or otherwise consume any compound, liquid, chemical, narcotic,
drug, or any other substance or chemical containing any ketones, aldehydes,
organic acetones, ether, chlorinated hydrocarbons, such as gasoline, glue,
fingernail polish, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope, paint, or any other
substance or combination thereof containing solvents releasing toxic vapors,
with the intent to cause conditions of intoxication, inebriation, excitement,
elation, stupefaction, paralysis, irrationality, dulling of the brain or
nervous system, or any other changing, distorting, or disturbing of the
eyesight, thinking processes, judgment, balance, or coordination of such
person.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not pertain to any person who
inhales, breathes, drinks, or otherwise consumes such material or substance
pursuant to the direction or prescription of any licensed doctor, physician,
surgeon, dentist, or podiatrist, or to the consumption of intoxicating liquor.
(Prior Code, § 15-15) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 IMMORAL CONDUCT, SHOWS, OR EXHIBITIONS; NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in a
lewd or immoral manner in any public place within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to show obscene or immoral motion pictures or
present any kind of a show or exhibition within the town which is obscene or
immoral.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place
within the town in a state of total nudity, or for any person to make an
indecent public exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 15-16) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 PROSTITUTION; ILLICIT SEXUAL RELATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, ILLICIT SEXUAL RELATIONS shall mean
sexual relations with any person other than one’s lawful husband or wife.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer, submit, or give himself
or herself to a lewd or immoral use, such as illicit sexual relations, or to
engage in any lewd or immoral act for money or any other thing of value.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in illicit sexual
relations or any other immoral act, to knowingly consort with a prostitute or
other person of immoral vocation, or to consort with another for an immoral
purpose, in any public place within the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or any
agent or employee thereof, to keep, or assist in keeping, a house of
prostitution or a house or place within the town where persons meet or assemble
for illicit sexual relations or for any other lewd or immoral purpose, or to
permit a known prostitute or other person of known immoral vocation to become
or remain a guest in a hotel or rooming house.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to act as a
procurer for any house or place of prostitution or for any prostitute or other
person engaged in an immoral vocation, or to procure, assist in procuring, or
attempt to procure any person for another for illicit sexual relations or any
other immoral purpose.
(Prior Code, § 15-17) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 CERTAIN CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON OR NEAR SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   No person shall engage in any conduct or commit any of the acts enumerated
herein around or on the grounds of any school in the town or in any street or
alley adjacent to a school:
   (A)   Loitering by any person not having lawful business in connection with
the school, an employee thereof, or student therein;
   (B)   Any conduct that disturbs the orderly conduct of the school;
   (C)   Annoying or molesting any student or employee of the school;
   (D)   Lewd or wanton conduct; or
   (E)   Moving or parking any vehicle in the vicinity of any school or in any
street or alley adjacent thereto, in such a manner as to annoy or molest any
student or employee of the school.
(Prior Code, § 15-18) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 ALCOHOLIC OR INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
misrepresent his or her age through false documentation, for the purpose of
inducing any person to sell him or her alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to have in
his or her possession any alcoholic beverages while such a person is upon any
street, alley, road, or highway, or in any public place within the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to open a retail container or
consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of a retail package store.
   (D)   No person drunk or in a state of intoxication shall appear, or be upon
or in, any street, alley, place of business, or other public place, nor shall
any person drink any alcoholic beverage upon or in any street, alley, place of
business, or other public place within the town.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport in any vehicle upon
any street, alley, or other public way within the town any alcoholic beverage
except in the original container, which shall not have been opened, the seal of
which shall not have been broken, and from which the original cap or cork shall
not have been removed, unless the opened container be in the trunk or any
closed compartment or other container out of public view and out of reach of
the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to buy,
receive, possess, sell, barter, give away, manufacture, or use any alcoholic
beverages in violation of the State Constitution and laws or the code of
ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-19) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 LOW-POINT BEER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to be, or
remain within, any place of business where low-point beer is sold for
consumption on the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase,
receive, or procure any low-point beer.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to work in a
place where low-point beer is sold for consumption on the premises, except an
eating place where the service of such beverages is incidental to the main
business of serving food.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age, to be
in possession of, or to drink, any low-point beer while such person is upon any
public street, alley, or other public highway, or in any public building or
other public place, within the town; provided, that this shall not prohibit a
person who is of age from drinking such beverage in a place licensed to sell it
for consumption on the premises.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any
moving vehicle, upon any public highway, street, alley, or roadway within the
corporate limits of the town or in or upon any property owned by said town
outside of its corporate limits, any low-point beer, except in the original
container which shall not have been opened and from which the original cap or
seal shall not have been removed, unless the opened container is in the rear
trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a
station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 15-20) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 TRUANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a parent of a minor who is over the age of
six and under the age of 18 years to neglect or refuse to cause or compel such
minor to attend and comply with the rules of public, private, or other school
of the parent’s choosing in which the minor is enrolled.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any minor who is over the age of six and who
has not finished four years of high school work to neglect or refuse to attend
and comply with the rules of some public, private, or other school, or receive
an education by other means for the full term the schools of the district in
which the minor attends are in session. Provided that the following shall not
apply:
      (1)   If any such minor is prevented from attending school by reason of
mental or physical disability, as determined by the Board of Education of the
district upon a certificate of the school physical or public health physician
or, if no such physician is available, a duly licensed and practicing
physician;
      (2)   If any such minor is excused from attendance at school, due to an
emergency, by the principal of the school in which the minor is enrolled, at
the request of the parent of the minor;
      (3)   (a)   If any such minor is excused from attending school by:
            1.   The administrator of the school or district where the minor
attends school; and
            2.   The parent of the minor.
         (b)   Provided further that no minor shall be excused from attending
school by such joint agreement between a school administrator and the parent of
the minor unless and until it has been determined that such action is in the
best interest of the minor and/or the community and that said minor shall
thereafter be under the supervision of the parent until the minor has reached
the age of 18 years.
      (4)   If any such minor is observing religious holy days and, prior to
the absence, the parent of the minor submits a written request for the absence.
(Prior Code, § 15-21) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any adult person convicted of violating any provision of §
131.12 shall be punished on the first offense by a fine of not more than $50
and on the second offense by a fine of not more than $100, plus court costs.
Each separate day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any minor convicted of violating any provision of §
131.12 shall be punished on the first offense by a fine of not more than $50
and on the second offense by a fine of not more than $100, plus court costs.
Each separate day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-21)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Possession of weapons in or upon municipal buildings or facilities
   
132.02   Discharging firearms
   
132.03   Unlawful assembly
   
132.04   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
132.05   Disturbing the peace; obscene gestures and phone calls
   
132.06   Curfew for minors
 
   
132.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Firearms in town park areas, see §
93.17
   Unlawful throwing or shooting of objects, see §
134.08
§ 132.01 POSSESSION OF WEAPONS IN OR UPON MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS OR FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person, other than persons exempted in division (B) below, shall
enter or remain upon any municipal building or facility on which signs have
been posted prohibiting the possession of any weapons on said municipal
building or facility while such person is in possession of any weapon,
including, but not limited to, any pistol, revolver, shotgun, or rifle (whether
loaded or unloaded) or any dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife, switchblade knife,
spring-type knife, sword cane, knife having a blade which opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring, or other device in the handle of
the knife, blackjack, loaded cane, billy club, hand chain, metal knuckles, or
any other offensive weapon.
   (B)   The provision of this section shall not apply to commissioned law
enforcement officers.
(Prior Code, § 15-30) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the
corporate limits of the town, except when doing so in the line of duty, when
lawfully doing so in defense of oneself or of another person or property, when
otherwise authorized by law or ordinance, when doing so for the preservation of
the peace, health, or safety of residents or the abatement of nuisances, or
when engaged in authorized hunting or other related activities. It shall also
be unlawful to discharge an air rifle or BB gun within the town in such a
manner as to harm or damage persons or property.
(Prior Code, § 15-31) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together to act in
concert to do any unlawful act against the peace, to the terror of others, to
make any movement thereto or any preparation therefor, or otherwise to assemble
together for other unlawful purposes.
(Prior Code, § 15-32) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together without
authority of law and in such a manner as is likely to disturb the public peace
or excite public alarm.
(Prior Code, § 15-33) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE; OBSCENE GESTURES AND PHONE CALLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of another or
others by violent or improper conduct, by loud or unusual noise, by unseemly,
obscene, insulting, offensive, or abusive language, or by conducting oneself in
a disorderly manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a telephone to:
      (1)   Make any obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, or indecent comment,
suggestion, or proposal;
      (2)   Make a telephone call without disclosing his or her identity and
with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten, or harass any person at the called
number;
      (3)   Knowingly permit any telephone under his or her control to be used
for any purpose prohibited in this division (B); or
      (4)   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, make repeated
or continuous calls solely to harass any person at the called number.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, demonstrate, or otherwise
symbolize any obscene gesture by use of said person’s extremities, toward any
other human being or object within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-34) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words used in the plural include the singular, and
words in the singular include the plural. The word SHALL is always mandatory
and not merely directory. The word MAY is always directory and not mandatory.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years of age, or in equivalent
phrasing, any person of the age of 17 years old or younger.
      PARENT. Any natural parent of a minor or a legal guardian.
      PUBLIC PLACE IN PUBLIC VIEW. Any public street, highway, road, alley,
parking lot, park, playground, public building, parkway, vacant lot, yard,
driveway, automobile, or cycle in public view.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry and stay unnecessarily upon a public
place in public view.
      TIME OF NIGHT. The prevailing local standard of time at the date in
question, whether Central Standard Time, Central Daylight Saving Time, as
observed by the public. The time maintained by the Town Police Department shall
be prima facie evidence of the time of day for continued implementation of this
section.
      YEARS OF AGE. The time from one birthday, such as 17, to the next, but
not including the day of the next birthday. Thus, upon a person’s eighteenth
birthday, he or she will cease to be a minor regulated by this section.
   (B)   Curfew for minors. It shall be unlawful for any person 17 years old or
younger to be or remain in or upon any public place in public view within the
town between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section is intended as a clear general guide for minors, their
parents, and enforcement officials. In the following exceptional cases, a minor
in or upon any public place in public view shall not be deemed in violation of
this section:
         (a)   When the minor is accompanied by his or her parent;
         (b)   When exercising First Amendment Rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the rights of assembly. It shall be deemed a bona fide exercise of such
rights of assembly, whether parade or demonstration has been permitted by the
town or other bona fide religious, social activities involving the right to
assemble;
         (c)   When engaged in performing an errand or other legitimate
business at the direction of a parent, including travel to and from such
location by a direct route; or
         (d)   When the minor is engaged in employment activities, such as, but
not restricted to, newspaper delivery.
      (2)   All of the exceptions cited in division (C)(1) above include travel
to and from such activity by a direct route, and this division (C)(2) is in no
way to be construed as a limitation upon normal travel by a minor engaged in
interstate movement.
      (3)   Each of the exceptions in division (C)(1) above are severable and,
in addition, other exceptions may be added hereto in the future as warranted by
experiences as illuminated by the news of student government associations,
school personnel, citizens, neighborhood spokespersons, parents, officers, and
persons in authority concerned positively with minors as well as juvenile
delinquency.
   (D)   Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for a parent knowingly
to permit or, by insufficient control, to allow a minor in his or her care to
be or remain in any public place in public view other than for activities
during the curfew hours established by this section. The term knowingly
includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the whereabouts during the hours of curfew established by this
section.
   (E)   Police procedures.
      (1)   A police officer of the town, upon finding or having attention
called any minor in prima facie violation of this section, may take the minor
to the Town Police Station, where a parent shall immediately be notified to
come for such minor, whereupon the parent may be questioned. This is intended
to permit ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of relevant facts,
and to centralize responsibility in the personnel then on duty for accurate,
effective, fair, impartial, and uniform enforcement, and recording, thus making
available experienced supervisory personnel, the best of facilities, and access
to information and records. In the absence of convincing evidence such as a
birth certificate or driver’s license, a police officer on the street shall use
his or her best judgment in determining age.
      (2)   Police procedure shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience and may provide that the police officer may deliver to a parent
thereof a minor under appropriate circumstances.
      (3)   In any event, such police officer shall, within 24 hours, file a
written report with the Chief of Police, or shall participate to the extent of
the information for which he or she is responsible. Said report shall be
treated for purposes of juvenile records in accordance with state statutes.
      (4)   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor may be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that in accordance with police
regulations, approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor, or other person who will, on
behalf of a parent, assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent. However, the Police Department shall
have the discretion to refuse to turn the child over to persons other than
natural parents or legal guardians, if circumstances warrant such refusal in
their opinion.
(Prior Code, § 15-35) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating §
132.01 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200, plus court costs, or 30
days imprisonment, or any combination thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-30)
   (C)   (1)   If a parent violates §
132.06(D), this shall be treated as an offense by the parent. The penalty upon
a plea of guilty, nolo contendere, or finding of guilt shall be a fine of not
more than $100 and/or parental counseling classes and/or community service and
restitution when damages are a result of or involved in the violation.
      (2)   Any minor who shall violate any of the provisions of §
132.06 more than one time may be reported to the Juvenile Court for the
treatment, supervision, and rehabilitation of such minor.
(Prior Code, § 15-35)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
133.01   Assault and battery
   
133.02   Contributing to delinquency of minors
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSAULT. Any willful and unlawful attempt or offer, with force or
violence, to do a corporal hurt to another.
      BATTERY. Any willful and unlawful use of force or violence upon the
person of another.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery
within the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, without
justifiable or excusable cause, to knowingly commit any assault, battery, or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or officer of the law,
while said person is performing his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 15-40) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF MINORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Includes a minor who shall have been or is violating
any penal statute of this state or who commits any offense listed in this code
of ordinances.
      MINOR or CHILD. Includes male or female persons who shall not have
arrived at the age of 18 years at the time of the commission of the offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and willfully cause,
aid, abet, or encourage a minor to be, to remain, or to become a delinquent
child, as defined herein.
(Prior Code, § 15-41) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §
133.01 shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by fine not to exceed $200 plus costs and may be imprisoned for any
amount of time not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 15-40)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
134.01   Petty larceny
   
134.02   Receiving stolen property
   
134.03   Damaging or destroying property
   
134.04   Unlawful entry
   
134.05   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
134.06   Unlawful posting of advertising matter
   
134.07   Damaging utility poles
   
134.08   Unlawful throwing or shooting of objects
   
134.09   Littering
§ 134.01 PETTY LARCENY.
   (A)   PETTY LARCENY is the taking of personal property of value not to
exceed $50, accomplished by fraud or stealth, or with intent to deprive another
thereof when the property is not taken from the person of another.
   (B)   Petty larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits petty larceny
shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, receive, or bring into the town
any property that he or she knows has been stolen.
(Prior Code, § 15-51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 DAMAGING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or
molest any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real
or personal, public or private, belonging to another, including automobiles or
other vehicles, to use any such property wrongfully to the detriment of the
owner of other person entitled to its use, or to interfere wrongfully with the
use of any such property by its owner or any other person entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, § 15-52) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.04 UNLAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the property of another or
into an area of structure on such property (whether such property, area, or
structure is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by
signs or otherwise, or when the property, area, or structure is enclosed,
except when such entrance is in the line of duty, with the expressed or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge or otherwise by authority of law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 15-53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.05 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   Every person who intrudes or squats upon any lot or piece of land within the
town without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or who erects or
occupies thereon any hut or other structure without such license or authority,
and every person who places, erects, or occupies within the bounds of any
street, alley, or avenue of the town, any hut or other structure whatever,
shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-54) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.06 UNLAWFUL POSTING OF ADVERTISING MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, post, paint, mark, write, or
print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, device, or
inscription upon any public or private building, fence, sidewalk, bridge,
automobile, other vehicle, or other property of another, without the consent of
the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-55) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.07 DAMAGING UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to mark, write, print, paint upon,
or otherwise make any signs or marks by indentation or otherwise, or by posting
signs or posters upon any telephone, television, telegraph, electric, or power
pole, either wood, concrete, steel, or of any other substance, within the
corporate limits of the town. The word POLE shall be construed to mean any pole
supporting telephone, television, electric, or power wires or braces and any
device used to support or brace such a pole.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the owners of such poles who may make
such necessary or authorized marks or signs thereon.
(Prior Code, § 15-56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.08 UNLAWFUL THROWING OR SHOOTING OF OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot, or
other object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he or
she is likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to
throw or shoot any stone, shot, or other object at any person, vehicle,
structure, electric light, or other property of another, whether public or
private, except in the case where such is done in defense of oneself, of
another person, or of property.
(Prior Code, § 15-57) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.09 LITTERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, LITTER is defined to be any garbage,
refuse, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles,
paper, wrappings, cigarette butts, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves,
wood, grass, bedding, or crockery and similar materials commonly referred to as
RUBBISH or TRASH.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any open or vacant
property within the town, irrespective of the ownership of such property.
   (C)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place within the town, except in public receptacles,
authorized private receptacles or in the municipal sanitary landfill.
   (D)   No person shall sweep into, or deposit in, any gutter, street, or
other public place within the town, the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons
owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises
free of litter.
   (E)   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
town, unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents, or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley, or
other public place; nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the town, the wheels or tires of which carry onto, or deposit in, any
street, alley, or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or
foreign matter of any kind, in excessive or damaging amounts.
   (F)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill on or upon any sidewalk, street, or other public place within the
town. No person shall hand out, distribute, or sell commercial handbills in
public places.
   (G)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle; however, it shall not be unlawful, in any
public place, for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing
to accept it.
   (H)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporary or continuously
vacant.
   (I)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested not to do so or
if signs are posted bearing the words no trespassing, no peddlers or agents, no
advertisement, or similar notice, indicating that the occupants do not desire
to have their privacy disturbed.
   (J)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by transmitting them directly to the owner, occupant, or persons present upon
such private premises. In cases of inhabited private premises which are not
posted handbills must be placed securely, to prevent them from blowing on
sidewalks or other public places.
   (K)   The provisions of division (J) above shall not apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States nor to newspapers, except that
newspapers shall be placed on private property so as to prevent being carried
or deposited upon any street, sidewalk, or public place, or on other private
property.
(Prior Code, § 15-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
135.01   Resisting arrest
   
135.02   Impersonating municipal officer or employee
   
135.03   False representation to municipal officers
   
135.04   Escape of prisoners
   
135.05   Assisting prisoners to escape
   
135.06   Removal of barricades
   
135.07   Flight from an officer
   
135.08   Refusing or failing to assist a police officer
   
135.09   Interference with fire alarm systems
   
135.10   False fire alarms
§ 135.01 RESISTING ARREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to resist,
oppose, or obstruct the Chief of Police, any police officer, the Municipal
Judge, or other municipal officer or employee in the discharge of his or her
official duties; or by threats or otherwise; to intimidate, or attempt to
intimidate, any such officer or employee from the discharge of his or her
official duties; or to assault, beat, revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, or
use abusive or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee,
while such officer or employee is in the discharge of his or her official
duties.
(Prior Code, § 15-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.02 IMPERSONATING MUNICIPAL OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate any municipal officer,
employee, firefighter, emergency medical technician, or any other emergency
medical care provider, or exercise, or attempt to exercise, any of the duties,
functions, or powers of any municipal officer employee, firefighter, emergency
medical technician, or any other emergency medical care provider, without being
duly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 15-81) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.03 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO MUNICIPAL OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to make any material
misrepresentation to any municipal officer, employee, or agency in any official
application to, or official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or
agency, or to commit perjury before, any tribunal or office of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-82) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.04 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person confined in the municipal jail or other
place of confinement by the town, working upon the streets or other public
places of the town in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal
custody by authority of the town, to escape, or attempt to escape, from any
such municipal jail, prison, or custody.
(Prior Code, § 15-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.05 ASSISTING PRISONERS TO ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any unlawful manner, to set at
liberty, rescue, or attempt to set at liberty or rescue, any prisoner from any
officer or employee of the town having legal custody of such prisoner, or from
the municipal jail or other place of confinement by the town, or to assist such
prisoner in any manner to escape from such prison or custody, or to give such
prisoner any weapon or object which might be used as a weapon or instrument to
assist him or her in escape, or to give such prisoner any alcoholic beverages,
narcotics, or other controlled dangerous substances.
(Prior Code, § 15-84) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.06 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   No person, unless authorized by proper authority, shall remove any barricade
or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off any
pavement, street, curb, sidewalk, or other area.
(Prior Code, § 15-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.07 FLIGHT FROM AN OFFICER.
   A person commits the offense of flight from an officer if:
   (A)   He or she is the operator of a vehicle and refuses to stop his or her
vehicle as soon as is safely possible, when signaled to do so by a law
enforcement officer or upon stopping his or her vehicle at the signal of a law
enforcement officer, abandons said vehicle and leaves, or attempts to leave,
the immediate area without the permission of the law enforcement officer;
   (B)   He or she is a passenger in a vehicle and abandons the vehicle after a
law enforcement officer has signaled the vehicle to stop or, after the vehicle
has stopped, leaves the immediate area without the permission of the law
enforcement officer; or
   (C)   He or she is a pedestrian and leaves, or attempts to leave, the
immediate area after being directed by a law enforcement officer to stop or to
remain in said area for a reasonable length of time.
(Prior Code, § 15-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.08 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST A POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Any police officer of the town making or about to make an arrest, or
executing or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with
the code of ordinances of said municipality or with state or federal law, or
suppressing or about to suppress a riot, affray, or unlawful assembly, may call
upon a person or persons to assist him or her in making such arrest, executing
such process or suppressing such riot, affray, or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   No person lawfully called upon thus to assist any police officer of
the town shall refuse or fail to do so, whenever such assistance is reasonably
possible.
(Prior Code, § 15-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.09 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Cut or sever, or cause to be cut or severed, or interfere with, in
any manner, any wire of the fire alarm system in the town;
      (2)   Remove or change the same, or cut, injure, change, alter or remove
any pole, cross-arm, bracket, or other support upon which said wires rest or in
which said wires are enclosed;
      (3)   Disconnect said wires or any of them from the guns, alarm boxes, or
instruments connected with said fire alarm systems; or
      (4)   Cause, in any manner, the working of the same to become obstructed
or interfered with without being first duly authorized to do so by the Chief of
the Fire Department.
   (B)   Nor shall any person:
      (1)   Deface or in any manner injure any of the fire alarm boxes or any
instruments or appliances connected with or belonging to said fire alarm
system;
      (2)   Tamper with said fire alarm or obstruct in any manner whatever, the
boxes, keys, or glass upon any of said boxes;
      (3)   Make or cause to be made, without authority from the Chief of the
Fire Department, keys to any alarm box or boxes;
      (4)   Use, or cause to be used, any such key so made; nor shall any
person place or fasten over or upon any fire alarm box a handbill, notice, or
sign of any kind, except the signs placed upon the same at the direction of the
Chief of the Fire Department and pertaining to the fire; or
      (5)   Cause to be hitched any horse or animal to any pole on which is
situated a fire alarm box.
(Prior Code, § 15-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.10 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall turn in a false fire alarm, or in any manner shall deceive
or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or any officer of employee with
reference to any fire alarm or reported fire, or knowingly shall cause the Fire
Department or its officers or employees to make a useless run.
(Prior Code, § 15-89) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
151.   BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   MOBILE AND MODULAR HOUSING
CHAPTER 150: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
150.01   Trees and shrubbery
   
150.02   Rights-of-way and easements
   
150.03   Obstructions
   
150.04   Drainage of polluting substance
   
150.05   Mandatory street address numbers
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street shall trim all trees
and shrubbery growing in the public right-of-way and on any part of the
premises adjacent to any street or alley, in such a manner that the boughs or
limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage and travel along
any streets, sidewalks, or alleys. When such premises are occupied by some
person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery
in the same manner as herein required of the owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery
within any public right-of-way; provided, that this shall not prohibit the
lawful and proper care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 21-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct
or otherwise prevent access to any publicly used street, alley, easement, or
other municipally owned property, whether platted or unplatted; provided, that
the town may prevent or provide access to such streets, alleys, easements, and
municipally owned properties, from time to time, in the public interest.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees may permit certain streets, alleys,
easements, and municipal properties, which are dedicated but not required for
traffic or other public access or use, to be fenced or otherwise made
inaccessible to the public (as in the case of land being farmed or grazed as a
part of a larger field or pasture); provided, that said Town Board or any of
its officers or employees shall have the right of ingress, egress, and easement
for the purpose of installing or maintaining utilities, cleaning, grading,
mowing, or any other activity which is in the public interest.
   (C)   Persons, companies, corporations, or individuals who have fenced in,
or are farming or grazing dedicated, but unopened, streets, alleys, easements,
or municipally owned properties, as permitted above, shall:
      (1)   Not construct any building, structure, earthworks, or ponds, nor in
any other way disturb the general grade and slope of the land;
      (2)   Maintain the property so that no nuisance is created;
      (3)   Immediately relinquish any rights presumed to be held concerning
the property upon notice by the town; and
      (4)   Permit access to the property at any time when requested to do so
by a municipal officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 21-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or obstruct the sidewalks,
streets, alleys, easements, or public rights-of-way of the town in any manner
so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian or other lawful traffic and parking
thereon, or to interfere unduly with the purpose(s) of said easement or right-
of-way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit,
throw, or sweep into or upon streets, alleys, parking areas, or sidewalks any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes, or
other refuse of any kind.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting
upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area
adjacent to the property to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to permit to be
open or leave open any cellar door, manhole, or grating of any kind in or upon
any street, sidewalk, or alley of the town.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation or cutting
in any street, sidewalk, alley, or public grounds, or to remove any earth or
construction material therefrom, except where authorized to do so by the Town
Board of Trustees. Excavations so authorized shall be properly guarded and
protected to prevent said excavations from being or becoming dangerous to life
or limb.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct
any street, sidewalk, alley, or drainage easement by placing any approach,
driveway, or other obstruction or substance whatever, that will obstruct or
prevent the natural flow of water through the easement or into the storm sewers
or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or gutters.
(Prior Code, § 21-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 DRAINAGE OF POLLUTING SUBSTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any residence, business, or industry to allow
drainage of a polluting substance (as defined by 82 O.S. § 1084.2, as amended)
into any street, alley, sidewalk, or public right-of-way of the town.
(Prior Code, § 21-4) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 MANDATORY STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   All owners of residential or commercial real property in the town shall post
street address numbers conspicuously thereon.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant who fails, refuses, or neglects to trim trees
and shrubbery, as provided in §
150.01, after receiving ten days’ notice from the Chief of Police to do so,
shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Every day upon which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 21-20)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   House moving permit
   
151.02   Pavement cutting permits
   
151.03   Ditching permits
   
151.04   Permits for pipes and cables across streets
   
151.05   Liquefied petroleum gas state permits
   
151.06   Movement of frame buildings
   
151.07   Plumbing registration required; fees; revocation
   
151.08   Plumbing permit
   
151.09   Registration of electricians; fees; revocation
   
151.10   Electrical permits
   
151.11   Officers and employees not liable
Codes and Code Administration
   
151.25   Codes adopted
   
151.26   Modifications of adopted codes
   
151.27   Adopted codes on file
   
151.28   Codes in effect
   
151.29   Conflicts with code of ordinances
   
151.30   Appointment and duties of Building Inspector
   
151.31   Building permits
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dilapidated buildings; nuisances, see §
92.31
   Unsafe structures; nuisances and removal, see §
92.30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 HOUSE MOVING PERMIT.
   (A)   Before any person shall move any house, building, or heavy structure
(excluding mobile homes) on or over any street within or through the town, it
shall first be necessary to obtain a permit to do so from the office of the
Town Clerk/Treasurer. Said permit shall first be approved by the Mayor or
Acting Mayor as provided in this section.
   (B)   The fee for a permit to move such house or structure shall be set by
resolution of the Town Board but shall not be less than $50. In the event it is
necessary to move utility lines, poles, signs, or other structures to
facilitate the move, the cost therefor will be paid by the applicant in
addition to the normal fee.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to any person to move a house or structure
unless the person has posted a bond in the sum of $1,000, conditioned that the
mover will indemnify the owners of any property (public or private, including
pavement, curbs, and the like) for any damage thereto resulting from the moving
of any house or structure by him or her or by his or her agents or employees
and holding the town harmless from liability for any such damages.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor or Acting Mayor to approve and
determine the route that may be used and the potential for damages, if any, to
any property. He or she may prescribe such rules and regulations as are
necessary to promote an effective move and to protect persons and property. The
mover shall erect all necessary danger signals during the move.
   (E)   Any person moving any house or any other structure on or over any
street or alley shall be liable personally and upon his or her bond for any
damages to trees, public property, persons, or any matter whatsoever resulting
from such moving. This provision shall not be construed to authorize any person
to cut or trim any trees or commit any injury to any public or private property
which cannot be immediately restored to its former condition, and no permit
shall authorize any moving under conditions which will promote such damage.
(Prior Code, § 4-36)
§ 151.02 PAVEMENT CUTTING PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut any pavement on any street
or alley within the town without first obtaining a permit from the office of
the Town Clerk/Treasurer. Said permit shall be approved by the Mayor or Acting
Mayor as herein provided.
   (B)   The fee for said permit shall be as determined by motion of the Town
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The town may, at its option, either make repairs of the pavement which
has been cut under the provisions of this section and charge the costs of such
repairs to the deposit herein provided or require that the person cutting the
pavement to make the repairs. In the latter case, the person’s deposit shall be
returned upon satisfactory repair of the pavement. Any balance remaining after
all such costs are paid shall be returned to the person making said deposit.
   (D)   Any person cutting such pavement shall maintain proper safeguards with
lights during the night hours sufficient in number to give adequate warning of
danger to all persons.
(Prior Code, § 4-37) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 DITCHING PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to initiate any ditching operation
involving any public easement, right-of-way, place, area, or building within
the town without first obtaining a permit from the office of the Clerk/
Treasurer. Said permit shall first be approved by the Mayor or Acting Mayor.
   (B)   Ditching permits shall be issued only if the applicant meets the
following conditions.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide a map of the proposed project to the
Mayor prior to initiating work. Said map shall show or have placed upon it by
the Mayor all municipal utility line locations in the project area and all
areas of public easement, rights-of-way, places, areas, or buildings
potentially affected by the proposed project.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide written proof that he or she has
coordinated his or her project with all other applicable utility companies
(telephone, electric, gas, and CATV) and is aware of the locations of all such
lines.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide a cash deposit suitable to the Town
Board as to dollar amount and form but in no case less than $100, to ensure
that any damages will be repaired. Upon completion of the project, the Town
Board will review any damage claims and make appropriate arrangements.
      (4)   The applicant shall agree in writing to maintain proper safeguards,
particularly at night.
   (C)   Violation of any of these provisions shall be grounds for revocation
of the applicant’s permit at any time.
   (D)   The fee for such permit shall be as determined by resolution of the
Town Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 4-38) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 PERMITS FOR PIPES AND CABLES ACROSS STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   Oil and gas companies and other persons, firms, and corporations
not operating pursuant to a franchise granted by the municipality or not
operating pursuant to a license or permit granted by the State Corporation
Commission, shall secure a permit from the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer
before placing, installing, laying, constructing, operating, or maintaining any
pipe, cable, wire, conduit, or line across, over, under, along, through, or
upon any street, alley, public way, or public place within the corporate limits
of the town.
      (2)   Said permit shall first be approved by the Mayor or Acting Mayor as
herein provided.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall specify:
      (1)   The location of the pipe, cable, wire, conduit, or line; and
      (2)   The privileges and proposed terms which the applicant desires to
secure from the town and to exercise.
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor and Acting Mayor will grant the permit on written
terms which are mutually agreeable.
      (2)   The Town Board may revoke said permit after adequate opportunity
for a public hearing for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to abide by the terms on which the permit was granted;
         (b)   Violation of state law or municipal ordinances; or
         (c)   Protection of the public peace, health, safety, or welfare.
   (D)   The applicant shall pay such fees for such permit, and for its
periodic renewal, as the Town Board of Trustees may establish by resolution.
   (E)   The Mayor or Acting Mayor may refuse to renew a permit.
   (F)   The Town Board of Trustees may require an applicant to provide a bond
for the protection of the town and/or the public in such sum and with such
terms as said Town Board deems desirable. When the Town Board of Trustees
requires such a bond, a permit shall have no force or effect unless the
required bond is also in effect.
(Prior Code, § 4-39) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS STATE PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install, or repair any system, container, apparatus, or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing, or
utilization of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle, or store such
gas, unless such person has complied and complies with, all provisions of the
state law and local ordinances relating thereto and has any permit which may be
required by state law. No storage or liquefied petroleum gas, except by retail
customers in reasonable amounts for their own use, shall be permitted within
the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-40) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 MOVEMENT OF FRAME BUILDINGS.
   No frame building shall be moved from without to within the corporate limits
of the town which, by reason of its age, state of repair, condition of wiring,
or which, for any other reason, is unfit for human habitation or which might
endanger the public peace, safety, health, or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 4-42) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 PLUMBING REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEES; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any person engaged or about to engage in the business of plumbing in
the town shall register with and obtain a permit from the Town Clerk/Treasurer,
before they can engage in said business. Registration shall include proof of
state license. A registration fee of $25 shall be paid to the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (B)   No person shall do any gas fitting, extensions, connections of
fixtures, or repairs to any gas fitting, except a registered plumber, as
provided in this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Violations of relevant sections of this code may result in the
revocation of registration and, if warranted, prosecution in §
151.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-43) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 PLUMBING PERMIT.
   (A)   In addition to the registration fee required under §
151.07, the applicant shall obtain a permit from the Town Clerk/Treasurer. The
cost of such permit shall be $5 and shall be required prior to each plumbing
contract performed by the applicant within the town. The application for permit
shall contain a description of the work to be done.
   (B)   Nothing in this provision shall relieve a plumber from obtaining
ditching and pavement cutting permits as required in this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-44) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 REGISTRATION OF ELECTRICIANS; FEES; REVOCATION.
   (A)   All persons, firms, partnerships, corporations, or individuals engaged
locally or hereafter engaging in the business of installing electrical
fixtures, wiring, or apparatus in or on any building within the corporate
limits of the town shall register with the Town Clerk/Treasurer before they
engage in said business. Registration shall include proof that a state license
has been obtained. A registration fee of $25 shall be paid to the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (B)   Registration is current for a period of one year or any part thereof
and shall be renewed on June 10 of each year.
   (C)   Violations of the Electrical License Act, 59 O.S. §§ 1680 et seq., and
relevant sections of this code may result in the revocation of registration
and, if warranted, prosecution under §
151.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-45) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 ELECTRICAL PERMITS.
   (A)   In addition to the registration fee required under §
151.09, the applicant shall obtain a permit from the Town Clerk/Treasurer. The
cost of such permit shall be $5 and shall be required prior to each electrical
contract performed by the applicant within the town. The application for permit
shall contain a description of the work to be done.
   (B)   Nothing in this provision shall relieve an electrical contractor from
obtaining ditching and pavement cutting permits and posting bonds as required
in this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-46) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES NOT LIABLE.
   (A)   Any officer or employee of the town charged with the enforcement of
this subchapter and acting in good faith and without malice for the town in the
discharge of his or her duties shall not thereby render himself or herself
liable personally, and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act or
omission required or permitted in the discharge of such duties.
   (B)   Any person brought against such officer or employee because of such
act or omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provisions of
such codes may be defended by the Town Attorney until the final termination of
the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 4-47)
CODES AND CODE ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.25 CODES ADOPTED.
   The particular codes listed below (with revisions as may be hereinafter set
forth) are hereby adopted and incorporated in this code of ordinances, as fully
as if set out at length herein, for the purposes of establishing rules and
regulations for the following activities carried on within the corporate limits
of the town:
   (A)   Building Code. The construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use, occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings and
structures: Basic Building Code (recommended by Building Officials and Code
Administrators International (BOCA)), current edition;
   (B)   Plumbing Code. The installation of alteration of plumbing and drainage
systems for buildings and structures: Basic/National Plumbing Code (recommended
by Building Officials and Code Administrators International (BOCA)), current
edition;
   (C)   Electrical Code. The installation or alteration of electrical
equipment for buildings or structures: National Electrical Code (National Fire
Protection Association), current edition;
   (D)   Housing Code. The provisions of basic, minimum housing standards for
the preservation of the health, safety, and welfare of occupants: Basic Housing
and Property Maintenance Code (Building Officials and Code Administrators
International (BOCA)), current edition;
   (E)   Fire Prevention Code. The provision of basic safeguards to life and
property from the hazards of fire and explosion: Basic Fire Prevention Code
(National Fire Protection Association), current edition;
   (F)   Safety Code. The use and occupancy of buildings or structures: Life
Safety Code (National Fire Protection Association), current edition; and
   (G)   Mechanical Code. The installation of mechanical systems, including
alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliance, fixtures, fittings,
and/or appurtenances thereto: Standard Mechanical Code (recommended by the
Southern Building Code Congress), current edition.
(Prior Code, § 4-1)
§ 151.26 MODIFICATIONS OF ADOPTED CODES.
   (A)   Wherever the words CITY, TOWN, or MUNICIPALITY are used in those
codes, it shall mean the Town of Sentinel, Oklahoma.
   (B)   Wherever the words INSPECTOR, BUILDING INSPECTOR, or ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICIAL are used in those codes adopted, it shall mean the municipal official
currently assuming the duties and responsibilities of Municipal Building
Inspector for the town.
   (C)   All official titles used in those codes adopted shall be interpreted
as defined in this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Maximum penalties for violation of provisions of those codes are
provided in §
10.99.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provisions of those codes adopted by this
subchapter, wood shingles may be used for roofing.
   (F)   All limits referred to in any of those codes adopted by this
subchapter are hereby established as the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-2)
§ 151.27 ADOPTED CODES ON FILE.
   One copy of those codes adopted by the town shall be retained in the office
of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 4-3)
§ 151.28 CODES IN EFFECT.
   From the date on which this subchapter shall take effect, the provisions of
said codes, as herein modified, shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-4)
§ 151.29 CONFLICTS WITH CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Whenever any provision of those codes adopted by this subchapter conflicts
with the code of ordinances of the town, the latter provisions shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 4-5)
§ 151.30 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Town Board of Trustees may appoint or designate a municipal
official, employee, or other person to be responsible for enforcing the codes
adopted by these ordinances. Said person may bear such titles as Building
Inspector, Gas Inspector, Plumbing Inspector, Electrical Inspector, and the
like, as may be deemed appropriate to indicate their respective areas of
concern.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall:
      (1)   Enforce all the provisions of this code and shall act on any
question relative to the mode or manner of construction and the materials to be
used in the erection, addition to, alteration, repair, removal, demolition,
installation of service equipment, and the location, use, occupancy, and
maintenance of all buildings and structures, except as may otherwise be
specifically provided for by statutory requirements or as provided herein;
      (2)   Receive applications and issue permits for the erection and
alteration of buildings and structures, inspect the premises for which such
permits have been issued and enforce compliance with the provisions of this
code;
      (3)   Issue all necessary notices or orders to remove illegal or unsafe
conditions, to require the necessary safeguards during construction, to require
adequate exit facilities in existing buildings and structures and to ensure
compliance with all the code requirements for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the public;
      (4)   Make all the required inspections, or the Building Official may
accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals, and all
reports of such inspections shall be in writing and certified by a responsible
officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The Building
Official may engage such expert opinions as may be deemed necessary to report
upon unusual technical issues that may arise subject to the approval of the
appointing authority;
      (5)   Carry proper credentials of their respective office for the purpose
of inspecting any and all buildings and premises in the performance of duties
under this code;
      (6)   Have power as may be necessary in the interest of public health,
safety, and general welfare, to adopt and promulgate rules and regulations to
interpret and implement the provisions of this code to secure the intent
thereof and to designate requirements applicable because of local climatic or
other conditions, but such rules shall not have the effect of waiving working
stresses or fire resistive requirements specifically provided in this code or
violating accepted engineering practice involving public safety;
      (7)   Keep official records of applications received, permits and
certificates issued, fees collected, reports of inspections, and notices and
orders issued. Such records shall be retained in the official records so long
as the building or structure to which they relate remains in existence unless
otherwise provided by other regulations; and
      (8)   Submit annually to the Town Board of Trustees a written statement
of operations in the form and content as shall be prescribed by such authority.
(Prior Code, § 4-6)
§ 151.31 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, enlarge, construct, relocate, substantially
improve, repair, place, alter, move, or demolish any building, structure,
mobile or modular home, or other construction without first obtaining a
separate building permit for each such building or structure from the office of
the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The Town Board of Trustees shall establish policies and procedures for
the application and issuance of building permits. Said policies and procedures
shall be provided to applicants of building permits at the time application for
permit is made.
   (C)   Fees for building permits shall be as established by the Town Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 4-7) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall fail to do anything required by
this chapter or by any code adopted by this chapter, who shall otherwise
violate any provision of this chapter or of any code adopted by this chapter,
or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the officers
provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day in which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense. In addition to such fine or imprisonment, licenses issued under this
chapter may be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 4-70)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.08   Establishment of development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.14   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.15   Permit procedures
   
152.16   Variance procedures
   
152.17   General standards
   
152.18   Specific standards
   
152.19   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.20   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
152.21   Floodways
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the state has, in 82 O.S. §§ 1601 et seq., delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore the Board of Trustees of the town does ordain
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-15)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health, and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures tor flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood loses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 4-16)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Prior Code, § 4-17)
§ 152.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such users, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodations of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 4-18)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition, and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, or VO Zone on a community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% chance or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such FLOODING is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The AREA may
be designated as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed
ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE, or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.
      (1)   A non-basement building:
         (a)   Built, in the case of a building in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor above the ground level by means of
pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of the
water; and
         (b)   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity
of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
      (2)   In the cases of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D,
ELEVATED BUILDING also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of flood waters.
      (3)   In the case of Zones V1-30, VE, or V, ELEVATED BUILDING also
includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of ELEVATED BUILDING, even
though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway
walls meet the standards of § 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance
Program regulations, being 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(e)(5).
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA). The report contains flood profiles, water surface
elevation of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purposes ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended, and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a SYSTEM typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY). The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historical district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area that is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that
such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, being 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured homes for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the state of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   For other than new construction or substantial improvements under
the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348), includes substantial
improvement and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (2)   The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways, nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers, or
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms, nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      (3)   For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled or roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before start of construction of the improvement. This includes
structures which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual
repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or Local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the Local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
VARIANCE, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this chapter. For full requirements, see § 60.6 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Prior Code, § 4-19)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-20)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood
Insurance Study for the Town of Sentinel, Oklahoma,” dated July 3, 1985, with
accompanying flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRM
and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-21)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-22) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-23) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 4-24)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 4-25)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 4-26)
§ 152.13 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Business Manager is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (National Insurance Program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
(Prior Code, § 4-27)
§ 152.14 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building
site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency, which is the State Department of Civil Emergency
Management, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
152.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.17 through
152.21;
   (I)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community; and
   (J)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 65.12 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the community’s FIRM which increases
the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided
that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA
(conditional letter of map revision).
(Prior Code, § 4-28)
§ 152.15 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of 44 C.F.R. Article 5, § B(2);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with 44
C.F.R. Article 4, § B(2).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity of the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
(Prior Code, § 4-29)
§ 152.16 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
152.15 have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances are as follows.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction,
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use, provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in this section are met; and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Prior Code, § 4-30)
§ 152.17 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 4-31) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
152.07 and §
152.19, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certificate to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) as proposed in
§
152.15 is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having tire capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division (B). A record of such certification which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces;
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation, and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed that manufactured homes
be placed or substantially improved on sites in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision with Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM that
are not subject to the provisions of this division (D) be elevated so that
either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements of §
152.15 and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes in
this section. A recreational vehicle is READY FOR HIGHWAY USE if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Prior Code, § 4-32) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.19 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall be consistent with §§
152.02 through
152.04.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet development
permit requirements of §§
152.08,
152.15, and
152.17 through
152.21.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is less, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
152.07 or
152.14.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 4-33) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.20 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable
and where velocity flow may be evident.
   (B)   Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow. Therefore,
the following provisions apply.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified).
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in §
152.15, are satisfied.
   (D)   Require within Zones AH or AO are adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Prior Code, § 4-34) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 FLOODWAYS.
   Flood ways located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.07 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply.
   (A)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development, within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
152.17 to
152.20 and this section.
   (C)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the
adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood
elevations, provided that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM
and floodway revision through FEMA.
(Prior Code, § 4-35)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall fail to do anything required by
this chapter or by any code adopted by this chapter, who shall otherwise
violate any provision of this chapter or of any code adopted by this chapter,
or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the officers
provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine and costs as provided for in §
10.99. Each day in which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense. In addition to such fine or imprisonment, licenses issued under this
chapter may be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 4-70)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE AND MODULAR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Permitted placement
   
153.04   Nonresidential mobile trailers
   
153.05   Nonconforming homes
   
153.06   Structural additions or alterations
   
153.07   Manufactured home subdivisions
   
153.08   Mobile home subdivisions
Manufactured Homes
   
153.20   Exterior appearance standards
   
153.21   Type I manufactured home
   
153.22   Type II manufactured home
   
153.23   Type III manufactured home
   
153.24   Mobile homes
   
153.25   Uses permitted
   
153.26   Installation standards
Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle Parks
   
153.40   Licenses and temporary permits; requirements; procedures; fees
   
153.41   Inspection of mobile homes and recreational vehicle parks
   
153.42   Notices, hearings, and orders
   
153.43   Supervision
   
153.44   Posting of license and temporary permit
   
153.45   Location and design considerations for mobile home and recreational
vehicle parks
   
153.46   Service building for recreational vehicle parks
   
153.47   Sewage disposal for mobile home parks
   
153.48   Water supply for mobile home parks
   
153.49   Refuse disposal for mobile home parks
   
153.50   Insect and rodent control
   
153.51   Electricity; exterior lighting
   
153.52   Fuel
   
153.53   Fire protection
   
153.54   Alterations and additions
   
153.55   Registration of owners and occupants
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide areas within the corporate
boundaries of the town wherein the location and development of manufactured
homes, manufactured home subdivisions, mobile homes, mobile home parks,
recreational vehicle and mobile home subdivisions may be safely continued and
encouraged.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to encourage the provision of
alternative modest income housing in general residential areas by permitting
the use of Type I and Type II manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all
districts in which similar dwellings constructed on-site are permitted, subject
to the requirements and procedures set forth herein to assure acceptable
similarity in exterior appearance between such Type I and Type II manufactured
homes and dwellings that have been or might be constructed under these and
other lawful regulations on adjacent or nearby lots in the same district.
   (C)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to encourage the provision
of alternative modest income housing in certain residential areas by permitting
the use of Type III manufactured housing, as defined herein, in certain
specified districts, when they are shown to meet the requirements and
procedures set forth herein.
   (D)   It is the purpose of this chapter to recognize mobile homes
constructed prior to June 15, 1975, as distinct and different from units
designated as manufactured homes Types I, II, and III and to prescribe
appropriate procedures and requirements for their placement in the community.
   (E)   The regulations set forth in this chapter are designed to promote
stable neighborhoods, prevent health and safety hazards, and encourage the
economical and orderly development and operation of manufactured home
subdivisions, mobile home parks and subdivisions, and recreational vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADD-A-ROOM UNIT. A unit of manufactured housing, not designed as a part of
the original structure, which may have less occupied space than a manufactured
housing section.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables, turnbuckles, chains,
ties, or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or mobile home.
   ANSI/NFPA 501A STANDARD FOR INSTALLATION OF (MANUFACTURED) MOBILE HOMES.
Those mobile homes, as adopted and copywrited by the National Fire Protection
Association and the Manufactured Housing Institute.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the appropriate authority having jurisdiction, by
reason of investigation, accepted principles, or tests by nationally recognized
organizations.
   BUILDING CODE. The officially adopted Building Code in effect within the
municipality.
   EXPANDO UNIT. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   FOUNDATION CODE. The “Standard for the Permanent Installation of
Manufactured Homes,” as adopted by ordinance.
   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING. A type of wainscotting constructed of fire and
weather resistant material, such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated pressed
wood, or other approved materials, enclosing the entire under-carriage of the
manufactured or mobile home.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the town (or his
or her authorized representative), or the authorized representative of the
County Health Department or the State Department of Health.
   INSPECTION OFFICER. The Building Official of the town, or his or her
authorized agent.
   LICENSEE. Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park
under the provisions of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976, in
an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code. The three types of
MANUFACTURED HOMES (Type I, Type II, and Type III) are defined as meeting all
the appropriate requirements of §
153.04.
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY (PARK). A parcel of land on which two
or more manufactured mobile homes are occupied as residences.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land platted for subdivision
according to all requirements of the comprehensive plan, designed or intended
for lots to be conveyed by deed to individual owners for residential occupancy
primarily by manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title VI of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder (including information supplied
by the home manufacturer, which has been stamped and approved by a design
approval primary inspection agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules), which became effective for
mobile/manufactured home construction on June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure larger than 320 square feet, designed
to be used as a year-round residential dwelling and built prior to the
enactment of the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., which became effective for all mobile home
construction prior to June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT. Shall be considered to be the same as a recreational
vehicle, unless otherwise specified.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. Any mobile home which meets the minimum gross
floor area or habitable space requirement of any municipal regulations and
which has a flush toilet and a bath or shower. Unless otherwise indicated in
the text of this chapter, the term MOBILE HOME shall mean an INDEPENDENT MOBILE
HOME.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home and not located on a mobile home sales
lot.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision designed and intended for
residential use, where residence is in mobile homes exclusively and mobile home
lots are sold for occupancy.
   NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicle having the basic characteristics
of either a mobile home travel trailer, but which is used for purposes other
than residential and is not being offered for sale (as indicated by clearly
displayed sign on or near the trailer).
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures, such as, but not limited to,
garages, patios, and porches.
   PARK. A mobile home and/or recreational vehicle park.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structure system for transporting loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent perimeter system completely
enclosing the space between the floor joist of the home and the ground.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a temporary permit is issued to maintain or
operate a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter.
   PUBLIC WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM. Any such system built and owned by, or
dedicated to and accepted by, the town. All other such systems shall be deemed
PRIVATE SYSTEMS.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure not built to the
Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code (or the
obsolete ANSI 119.1 Mobile Home Design and Construction Standard) designed for
travel, recreational camping, or vacation purposes, either having its own motor
power or mounted onto or drawn by another vehicle and including, but not
limited to, travel and camping trailers, truck campers, and motor homes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more
recreational vehicles, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located,
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle
park designed for accommodation of one recreational vehicle.
   RURAL AREA. Any area within the existing or future corporate boundaries of
the town which is zoned agriculturally. This shall not include areas zoned for
low-density, residential estates type uses.
   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in width and
30 body feet in length.
   SERVICE BUILDING. Any building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
and/or women, and may also include buildings containing laundry facilities and
other facilities, as required by this chapter or desired by the park operator.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A device for permitting a use within a district
other than a principally permitted use.
   SUPPORT SYSTEM. A pad or a combination of footings, piers, caps, plates, and
shims which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or mobile home.
   URBAN. All areas within the existing or future corporate boundaries of the
town zoned for urban density development.
(Prior Code, § 12-2)
§ 153.03 PERMITTED PLACEMENT.
   The establishment, location, and use of manufactured homes as permanent
residences approved individually, by specific materials, or by design, shall be
permitted in any zone permitting installation of a dwelling unit, subject to
requirements and limitations applying generally to such residential use in the
district and provided such homes shall meet the following requirements and
limitations.
   (A)   The dwelling shall meet the appropriate exterior appearance standards,
as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   The dwelling shall be sited in a district where such use is permitted
in §
153.25.
   (C)   The dwelling shall receive all required permits and confirm with the
comprehensive plan and other ordinances of the town, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 12-3) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 NONRESIDENTIAL MOBILE TRAILERS.
   (A)   No nonresidential mobile trailers shall be permitted in the town
unless a license for its operation is issued by the Inspection Officer.
   (B)   Such license shall specify the permitted use of the nonresidential
mobile trailer, the location of such operation, and the termination date of the
permit.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for a use which would violate any local,
state, or federal ordinance, law, or regulation.
   (D)   An annual fee of $25 shall be charged for each nonresidential mobile
trailer license; provided, that no governmental or nonprofit agency shall be
charged for such a fee.
   (E)   Operation of nonresidential trailers by contractors or construction
projects for which building permits have been issued or which are otherwise
approved by governmental units is permitted during the term of such
construction project, without issuance of a license.
   (F)   This section shall not be construed as permitting or authorizing the
permanent location of any nonresidential mobile trailer within the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-4) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 NONCONFORMING HOMES.
   (A)   A manufactured or mobile home placed and maintained on a tract of land
and deemed to be a legal nonconforming use prior to the adoption of this
chapter shall continue to be a legal nonconforming use.
   (B)   If the nonconforming use is discontinued, the land thereafter must be
used in conformity with all provisions of the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 12-5) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 STRUCTURAL ADDITIONS OR ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Due to its integral design, any structural alteration or modification
of a manufactured or mobile home after it is placed on the site must be
approved by the Building Inspector or other authorized administrative official
of the town.
   (B)   All structural additions shall comply with the town’s Building Codes.
(Prior Code, § 12-6) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Manufactured home subdivisions shall comply with the adopted
subdivisions regulations and zoning ordinance of the town, except as otherwise
provided herein.
   (B)   The minimum size of a manufactured home subdivision shall be ten
acres.
   (C)   Type III manufactured homes and mobile homes are not permitted in
manufactured home subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 12-20) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Mobile home subdivisions shall comply with the adopted subdivision
regulations and zoning ordinance of the town, except as otherwise provided
herein.
   (B)   The minimum size of a mobile home subdivision shall be ten acres.
   (C)   No residences except mobile homes shall be permitted in a mobile home
subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Minimum effective lot widths in a mobile home subdivision shall
be 40 feet, measured at the front building line, and minimum lot areas shall be
4,000 square feet; provided, that at least a five-foot side yard shall be
provided on each lot beyond any mobile home and additions thereto; and further
provided, that in areas not serviced by a public sewer, the minimum additional
lot area shall be determined by the Health Officer on the basis of safe and
sanitary sewer service.
      (2)   The effective lot width of a mobile home lot shall be determined,
for interior lots, by measuring at right angles across the lot from one
diagonal side line to the other, and for corner lots, the measurement shall be
made at right angles from the diagonal having the greatest divergence from
perpendicular to the street, through the midpoint of the rear line of the
required front yard, to the opposite lot line or an extension thereof.
   (E)   Side lines of lots in mobile subdivisions need not be at right angles
to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (F)   Regardless of the effective lot width, mobile home subdivision lots
must abut a public street for at least 25 feet.
   (G)   All mobile home subdivisions, except those developed under residential
estate zoning district standards, shall have a green belt planting strip of not
less than 20 feet in width along all subdivision boundaries. Such greenbelt
shall be composed of:
      (1)   One row of deciduous and/or evergreen trees, spaced not more than
40 feet apart;
      (2)   Not less that three rows of shrubs, spaced not more than 40 feet
apart; and
      (3)   Not less than three rows of shrubs, spaced not more than eight feet
apart, which grow to a height of five feet or more after one full growing
season and which shrubs will eventually grow to a height of not less than 12
feet.
(Prior Code, § 12-50) Penalty, see §
153.99
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 153.20 EXTERIOR APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   Manufactured homes shall be classified as to acceptable compatibility or
similarity in appearance with site-constructed residences, as set forth in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-10)
§ 153.21 TYPE I MANUFACTURED HOME.
   Type I manufactured homes shall:
   (A)   Have more than 950 square feet of occupied space in a typically
double-section or larger multi-section unit;
   (B)   Be placed onto a permanent foundation;
   (C)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with approved
installation standards as specified in §
153.26;
   (D)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the town codes and to
the manufacturer’s specifications;
   (E)   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed;
   (F)   Have utilities connected in accordance with the local codes and
manufacturer’s specifications;
   (G)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences;
   (H)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences; and
   (I)   Have open, covered, and/or enclosed parking structure which is
compatible with other housing in immediate area, and all parking surfaces shall
be hard surfaced.
(Prior Code, § 12-11) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.22 TYPE II MANUFACTURED HOME.
   Type II manufactured homes shall:
   (A)   Have more than 720 square feet of occupied space in a single, double,
expando, or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
   (B)   Be placed on a permanent foundation;
   (C)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with approved
installation standards as specified in §
153.26;
   (D)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the manufacturer’s
specifications and local codes;
   (E)   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed;
   (F)   Have utilities connected in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications or local codes, whichever is more restrictive;
   (G)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences;
   (H)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences; and
   (I)   Have covered and/or enclosed parking structure which is compatible
with other housing in immediate area, and all parking surfaces shall be hard
surfaced.
(Prior Code, § 12-12) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.23 TYPE III MANUFACTURED HOME.
   Type III manufactured homes shall:
   (A)   Have more than 400 square feet of occupied space in a single, double,
expando, or multi-section unit (including those with add-a-room units);
   (B)   Be placed onto a support system in accordance with approved
installation standards as specified in §
153.26;
   (C)   Be enclosed with foundation siding/skirting in accordance with
approved installation standards as specified in §
153.26;
   (D)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and local codes; and
   (E)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications or the local codes.
(Prior Code, § 12-13) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.24 MOBILE HOMES.
   For the purpose of determining appropriateness for placement, mobile homes
shall:
   (A)   Have more than 320 square feet of occupied space;
   (B)   Be placed onto support systems, in accordance with approved
installation standards as specified in §
153.26;
   (C)   Be enclosed with foundation siding/skirting in accordance with
manufacturer’s specifications for local codes;
   (D)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and local codes; and
   (E)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications and local codes.
(Prior Code, § 12-14) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.25 USES PERMITTED.
   Manufactured or mobile homes are permitted uses as follows.
   (A)   Agricultural District (A-1). Permitted uses are Type I, II, and III
manufactured homes. Mobile homes may be permitted with a special exception
permit.
   (B)   Single-Family Residential District (R-2). Permitted uses are Type I
manufactured homes. Type II and III may be permitted with a special exception
permit. Mobile homes are prohibited.
   (C)   Two-Family Residential District (R-2). Permitted uses are Type I
manufactured homes. Type II and III may be permitted with a special exception
permit. Mobile homes are prohibited.
   (D)   Multi-Family Residential District (R-3). Permitted uses are Type I
manufactured homes. Type II and III may be permitted with a special exception
permit. Mobile homes are prohibited.
   (E)   Residential Estate District (R-4). Permitted uses are Type I
manufactured homes. Type II and III may be permitted with a special exception
permit.
   (F)   Convenience Commercial District (C-1). Allows no permitted uses. Types
I, II, and III and mobile homes may be permitted with a special exception
permit.
   (G)   Highway Commercial and Commercial Recreation District (C-2). Allows no
permitted uses. Types I, II, and III and mobile homes may be permitted with a
special exception permit.
   (H)   General Commercial District (C-3). Allows no permitted uses. Types I,
II, and III and mobile homes may be permitted with a special exception permit.
   (I)   Light Industrial District (I-1). Allows no permitted uses, and all
uses are prohibited.
   (J)   Heavy Industrial District (I-2). Allows no permitted uses, and all
uses are prohibited.
   (K)   Manufactured Home Community (Park) (MHC). Permitted uses are Type I,
II, III, and mobile homes.
   (L)   Manufactured Home Subdivision (MHS). Permitted uses are Type I and II.
Type III and mobile homes are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 12-15) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.26 INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   Manufactured or mobile home installation standards are as follows.
   (A)   Permanent perimeter enclosure. Those manufactured homes designated in
the zoning ordinance as requiring perimeter enclosure must be set onto an
excavated area, with permanent perimeter enclosure, foundations, footings, and
crawl space or basement walls constructed in accordance with the terms of the
Foundation Code. The space between the floor joints of the home and the
excavated underfloor grade shall be completely enclosed with the permanent
perimeter enclosure (except for required openings).
   (B)   Foundation siding/skirting (for temporary structures).
      (1)   All manufactured or mobile homes without a permanent perimeter
enclosure shall have an approved foundation siding/skirting and back-up framing
which shall be weather resistant, noncombustible, or self-extinguishing
materials, which blend with the exterior siding of the home. Below grade level
and for a minimum distance of six inches above finish grade, the materials
shall be unaffected by decay or oxidation.
      (2)   The siding shall be installed in accordance with manufacturer’s
recommendations or approved equal standards. The siding shall be ventilated by
openings, which shall have a net area of not less than one and one-half square
feet for each 25 linear feet of exterior perimeter. The openings shall be
covered with corrosion resistant wire mesh not less than one-half inch in any
dimension.
      (3)   The underfloor area shall be provided with an 18-inch by 24-inch
minimum size access crawl hole, which shall not be blocked by pipes, ducts, or
other construction interfering with the accessibility of the under floor space
or other approved access mechanism.
   (C)   Support system. All HUD-Code Type I and Type II manufactured home
load-bearing foundations shall be installed in conformance with the regulations
in the Foundation Code and with the manufacturer’s installations
specifications. All HUD-Code Type III manufactured homes and all mobile homes
not placed on a permanent foundation shall be installed on a support system in
conformance with the manufacturer’s installation specifications or with the
Foundation Code.
(Prior Code, § 12-16) Penalty, see §
153.99
MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
§ 153.40 LICENSES AND TEMPORARY PERMITS; REQUIREMENTS; PROCEDURES; FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, or operate
any mobile home park or recreational vehicle park within the limits of the town
unless he or she holds a valid license issued annually and jointly by the
Inspection Officer and Health Officer of the town in the name of such person
for the specific mobile home park, except that the maintenance or operation of
a mobile home park or recreational vehicle park in existence on the effective
date of this chapter may be continued under a temporary permit for such period
of time and under such conditions as are hereinafter described.
   (B)   Application shall be made to the Inspection Officer who, acting
jointly with the Health Officer, shall issue a license upon compliance by the
applicant with all pertinent provisions of this and other ordinances and
regulations of the town. Every person holding such a license shall notify the
Health Officer in writing within 24 hours after having sold, transferred, given
away, or otherwise disposed of, interest in or control of any mobile home park.
Such notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of such mobile home park or recreational vehicle park.
   (C)   Application for original licenses shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the application and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The interest of the applicant in, and the location and legal
description of, the park;
      (3)   A complete plan of the park, showing compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder; and
      (4)   Such further information as may be requested by the Health and/or
Inspection Officer.
   (D)   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made, in writing, by
the holder of the license and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
license was issued, or the latest renewal granted; and
      (2)   Other information requested by the Health and/or Inspection
Officers.
   (E)   A complete plan for the purpose of obtaining a license to be issued
shall show:
      (1)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      (2)   The number, locations, and size of all mobile home or recreational
vehicle spaces;
      (3)   The location and width of roadways, walkways, buffer strips, and
recreational areas;
      (4)   The location of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      (5)   The location and size of utility lines and treatment facilities;
and
      (6)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed, or to be constructed, within the park.
   (F)   Whenever the Health and/or Inspection Officer finds conditions
existing in violation of this chapter or of any regulation adopted pursuant
thereto, he or she shall give notice, in writing, to the person to whom the
license was issued that, unless such conditions or practices be corrected
within a reasonable period of time (specified in the notice), the license will
be suspended. At the end of such period, not to exceed 90 days, the Health and/
or Inspection Officer shall re-inspect such park and, if such conditions or
practices have not been corrected, he or she shall suspend the license and give
notice, in writing, of such suspension to the person to whom the license was
issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease operation
of such park except as may be provided hereinafter.
   (G)   Any person whose permit has been denied or suspended, or who has
received notice from the Health and Inspection Officers that his or her permit
will be suspended unless certain conditions or practices at the park are
corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Town Board of Trustees; provided, that when no petition for such hearing shall
have been filed within ten days following the day on which notice of suspension
was served, such license shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked at
the expiration of such ten-day period.
   (H)   Mobile home and recreational vehicle parks in existence upon the
effective date of this chapter, which have concrete pads indicating the
location of mobile home or recreational vehicle spaces, need not comply with
those sections of this chapter which would require the moving of concrete pads.
They must, however, comply with all other requirements and any park expansion
shall be in full compliance with provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall charge and collect for each mobile home
and/or recreational vehicle park an initial license or temporary permit of not
to exceed $2.50 per space. The initial license or temporary permit shall expire
one year from the date of issue, unless renewed upon such conditions as the
Town Board of Trustees may, by ordinance or resolution, direct.
(Prior Code, § 12-30) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.41 INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   The Health and/or Inspection Officers are hereby authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of mobile home and
recreational vehicle parks located within the town in order to perform their
duty of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of mobile home parks
and of the general public.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall have the power to inspect the outside
premises of the private or public property for the purposes of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter or of
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   The Health and/or Inspection Officer shall have the power to inspect
the register containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants using the
park.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a park to give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such mobile
home or recreational vehicle park, or their premises, at reasonable times for
the purpose of making such repairs or alterations adopted thereunder, or with
any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-31) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.42 NOTICES, HEARINGS, AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Health and/or Inspection Officer determines violations of
pertinent regulations exist, he or she shall notify the licensee or permittee
of such alleged violation. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will affect
compliance with provisions of this chapter and other pertinent regulations;
      (4)   Allow a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, for the performance
of any act it requires; and
      (5)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require; provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed as properly served
upon owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by certified mail to his
or her last known address.
   (B)   Any person affected by any notice issued under this chapter or
resulting regulations may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the Fair Housing Board; provided, that such person shall file with the
Inspection Officer a written request for such hearing, setting forth briefly
the grounds for such request, within ten days after the day notice was served.
The filing of such request shall stay the notice of suspension of permits and
licenses, except in cases of orders issued under division (E) below. The
hearing shall be held at the next Fair Housing Board meeting for which the
agenda has not been completed, or at a later meeting if so requested by the
petitioner, should the Inspection Officer determine sufficient cause for such
delay exists.
   (C)   After such hearing, the Health and/or Inspection Officer shall compile
the findings of the Fair Housing Board as to compliance with this chapter and
pursuant regulations and shall issue an order, in writing, sustaining,
modifying, or withdrawing the prior notice which shall be served as provided in
division (D) below. Upon failure to comply with such order, the permit of the
mobile home park or travel trailer park shall be revoked.
   (D)   Appeals from decisions of the Fair Housing Board shall be to the Town
Board of Trustees. Any person aggrieved by the decision of said Town Board may
seek relief in District Court.
   (E)   Whenever the Health and/or Inspection Officer finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she
may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such
an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he or she may deem
necessary to meet the emergency, including the suspension of the permit.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Town Board of Trustees,
shall be afforded a hearing at the next regular meeting, even if the agenda has
been completed. The provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above shall be
applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 12-32)
§ 153.43 SUPERVISION.
   The licensee, permittee, or a duly authorized attendant or caretaker shall
be charged at all times with keeping the mobile home park, its facilities, and
equipment in a clean, orderly, and sanitary condition. The attendant or
caretaker shall be answerable, with the licensee or permittee, for the
violation of any provision of this chapter to which the licensee or permittee
is subject.
(Prior Code, § 12-33) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.44 POSTING OF LICENSE AND TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   The license certificate or temporary permit shall be conspicuously posted in
the office of, or on the premises of, the mobile home park or the travel
trailer park at all times.
(Prior Code, § 12-34) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.45 LOCATION AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS FOR MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   (1)   Parks shall be of three types:
         (a)   Mobile home parks;
         (b)   Recreational vehicle parks; and
         (c)   Mixed mobile home and recreational vehicle parks.
      (2)   No recreational vehicle shall be located in a mobile home park. No
mobile home shall be located in a recreational vehicle park. In a mixed park,
separate areas shall be reserved for mobile homes and for travel trailers. No
mobile home shall be permitted in the travel trailer sector. No travel trailer
shall be permitted in the mobile home sector.
   (B)   All mobile home parks shall be located on a well-drained site,
properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of
water. Drainage shall not endanger any water supply.
   (C)   The minimum area of any park shall be five acres. Parks in existence
on the effective date of this chapter can continue to operate with less than
five areas area. However, if the park is to be expanded, it must at that time
have a minimum area of five acres.
   (D)   Intensity of development shall be limited to no more than ten mobile
homes per gross acre for a mobile home park and no more than 15 recreational
vehicles per gross acre for a recreational vehicle park. Area used for sewerage
treatment facilities shall not be included in density computations. Mobile home
spaces shall be at least 30 feet wide where pads are closest to driveways.
Recreational vehicle spaces shall be at least 25 feet wide where recreational
vehicles are located closest to the driveway.
   (E)   Every mobile home and recreational vehicle space shall be clearly
defined. Mobile homes and recreational vehicles shall be parked in such spaces,
so that, at the nearest point, they shall be ten feet from the service road,
five feet from the rear lot line, and at least ten feet from any other mobile
home or recreational vehicle.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to locate a mobile home or recreational vehicle
less than 25 feet from any public street or highway right-of-way or so that any
part of such mobile home or recreational vehicle will obstruct any roadway or
walkway of such park.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to permit a mobile home to occupy a recreational
vehicle space, a recreational vehicle to occupy a mobile home space, and for
any mobile home or recreational vehicle to be located in a park unless in a
designated mobile home or recreational vehicle space.
   (H)   All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a sealed-surface driveway of
not less than 20 feet in width, if on-street parking is prohibited, and 26 feet
in width if on-street parking is permitted on one side of the street only.
Driveways must have unobstructed access to a public street or highway.
   (I)   In mobile home or recreational vehicle parks existing at the effective
date of this chapter, parking on or adjacent to the street within the park is
permissible as long as it does not obstruct free movement of traffic. Whether
or not a safety hazard exists is a question to be determined by the Planning
Commission, with final appeal to the Town Board of Trustees. If, upon final
appeal before said Town Board, it is determined that a safety hazard does in
fact exist, the mobile home or recreational vehicle park concerned will be
required to comply with the following provisions.
      (1)   In new mobile home parks, at least two clearly defined parking
spaces will be provided for each space either on or adjacent to the space.
      (2)   In new recreational vehicle parks, at least one parking space shall
be provided for each space either on, or adjacent to, the space.
   (J)   Outside drying spaces or other clothes drying facilities shall be
provided in every mobile home park or recreational vehicle park. Mobile home
parks shall have at least 100 linear feet of clothes drying line or one
mechanical clothes drying unit in good condition. Mechanical units shall be
located in a service building. Recreational vehicle parks and mixed parks shall
have at least 25 linear feet of outdoor clothes drying line for each
recreational vehicle space or one mechanical clothes drying unit for the first
ten recreational vehicle spaces, or any fraction thereof, and an additional
unit for each ten additional recreational vehicle spaces or any fraction
thereof.
   (K)   All driveways and walkways within a park shall be at least asphalt-
oil-rock sealed and surfaced.
   (L)   In the urban area, new mobile home parks should abut and have their
major means of ingress and egress on at least a secondary thoroughfare.
Recreational vehicle parks and mixed parks in the urban area shall abut and
have their major means of ingress and egress on at least a primary
thoroughfare.
   (M)   All mobile home parks shall have and maintain a solid screened fence
of not less than six feet in height along all park boundaries not bordering a
street. Material shall be of any standard fencing material, provided that such
screening fence shall provide a visibility barrier and shall be of sufficient
strength to withstand normal winds and other weather occurrences common to the
area.
(Prior Code, § 12-35) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.46 SERVICE BUILDING FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   Each recreational vehicle park shall be provided with at least one
service building adequately equipped with flush type toilet fixtures and other
sanitary facilities, as required in this chapter. No service building shall
contain less than one toilet for females, one toilet for males, one lavatory
and shower for each sex, and one laundry tray. All sanitary facilities required
by this chapter shall be located in a service building.
   (B)   Each park accommodating recreational vehicles shall provide the
following.
      (1)   Toilet facilities for males shall consist of not less than two
flush toilets and one urinal for the first ten recreational vehicles or
fraction thereof, and for recreational vehicles in excess of ten, not less than
one additional flush toilet and one additional urinal for every ten additional
recreational vehicles or fractional number thereof.
      (2)   Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less than two
flush toilets for the first six recreational vehicle spaces, or any less number
thereof, and for recreational vehicle spaces in excess of six, not less than
one additional flush toilet for every ten additional recreational vehicle
spaces in excess of six or fractional number thereof.
      (3)   Each sex shall be provided with not less than two lavatories and
two showers or bathtubs, with individual dressing accommodations for the first
ten recreational vehicle spaces, or any less number thereof, and for
recreational vehicle spaces in excess of ten, not less than one additional
lavatory and one additional shower or bathtub with individual dressing
accommodations, for every ten additional recreational vehicle spaces, or
fractional number thereof.
      (4)   Each toilet for females and each shower or bathtub with individual
dressing accommodations for females shall be in a private compartment or stall.
      (5)   The toilet and other sanitation facilities for males and females
shall either be separate buildings or shall be separated, if in the same
building, by a soundproof wall.
      (6)   There shall be provided in a separate compartment or stall, not
less than one flush toilet bowl receptacle for emptying bed pans and other
containers of human excreta, or a slop sink with at least a three-inch trap and
an adequate supply of hot running water for cleansing such bed pans or
containers.
   (C)   Recreational vehicle spaces shall not be more than 200 feet from a
private building.
   (D)   Service buildings shall:
      (1)   Be located 25 feet or more from any recreational vehicle space;
      (2)   Be of permanent construction and be adequately lighted;
      (3)   Be of moisture-resistant material to permit frequent washing and
cleansing;
      (4)   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of 70°F
during cold weather and to supply adequate hot water during time of peak
demands; and
      (5)   Have all rooms well-ventilated with all openings effectively
screened.
   (E)   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one laundry unit
to every 30 recreational vehicle spaces and shall be in a separate,
soundproofed room of a service building or in a separate building. A laundry
shall consist of not less than one laundry and one clothes washing machine.
   (F)   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be maintained
in a clean condition and kept free of any condition that will menace the health
of any occupant or the public or constitute a menace.
(Prior Code, § 12-36) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.47 SEWAGE DISPOSAL FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories, slop
sinks, and laundries in service and other buildings within the park, shall be
discharged into a public sewer and disposal plant, septic tank system, or
private sewer and lagoon system, of such construction and in such manner as
approved by the State Health Department and in accordance with all applicable
ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a three-inch
sewer connection at least four inches above the surface of the ground. The
sewer connection should be protected by a concrete collar at least four inches
thick and have a minimum outside diameter of 24 inches. The sewer connection
shall be fitted with a standard ferrule and close nipple and provided with a
screw cap. Connection between the mobile home drain and the sewer must be
watertight and self-draining. Mobile homes with fixtures from which back-
siphonage may occur shall not be connected to the park’s water system until the
defect has been corrected.
   (C)   In the event that a public water system is, or becomes, available
within 300 feet of a mobile home or recreational vehicle park, connection must
be made to the public system within 180 days.
   (D)   The design of private sewage treatment facilities shall be based on
the maximum capacity of the park. Effluents from sewage treatment facilities
shall not be discharged into any waters of the state. The disposal facilities
shall be located where they will not create a nuisance or health hazard to the
mobile home park or to the owner or occupants of any adjacent property. The
State Department of Health must approve the type of treatment proposed and the
design of any disposal facilities and sewer systems, prior to construction.
   (E)   Every mobile home occupying a mobile home park space shall tie onto
the park sewerage system and shall dump any accumulated wastes into the system.
Every recreational vehicle shall dump all accumulated waste into a receptacle
provided in the travel trailer park upon entering and upon leaving the park.
Such receptacles must be approved by the State Department of Health. Any other
dumping of accumulated waste within the town is prohibited.
   (F)   The monthly sewerage charge shall be based on the maximum mobile home
or travel trailer capacity of the park. The park operator shall, by the tenth
of each month, notify the Town Clerk/Treasurer of the maximum number of mobile
home spaces tn use at any one time during the previous month. The Town Clerk/
Treasurer shall then adjust the sewerage fee to the actual use of the park.
Should the park operator fail to notify the Town Clerk/Treasurer of the prior
month’s actual usage of trailer or mobile home spaces, the sewerage fee shall
be levied on the maximum capacity of the park.
   (G)   Sewer connections shall be watertight. Park licensees shall maintain
trailer and mobile home connections to sewer and water systems in good
condition and be responsible that there is not sewerage or water leakage on
park premises.
   (H)   No sewer connections shall be made to travel trailer spaces.
(Prior Code, § 12-37) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.48 WATER SUPPLY FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each park, capable of furnishing a minimum of 250 gallons per day,
per mobile home space. Where a public supply of water of such quality is
available within 300 feet or becomes available within 300 feet, connection
shall be made thereto, and its supply shall be used exclusively. Where private
water supplies must be developed, the Health Officer must approve the location,
construction, and development of the water well, pipe system, and connections.
No private source other than water well shall be used.
   (B)   The water system of the mobile home park shall be connected by pipes
to all buildings and all mobile home spaces. Each mobile home shall be provided
with a cold water tap at least four inches above the ground. An adequate supply
of hot water shall be provided at all times, in the service buildings, for all
bathing, washing, cleansing, and laundry facilities.
   (C)   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with state and local law. The water piping system shall not be connected with
non-potable or questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back-siphonage. All water connections shall be
weathertight.
   (D)   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be of
a type and in locations approved by the Health Officer.
   (E)   Individual water service connections which are provided for direct use
by mobile homes shall be of such construction so that they will not be damaged
by the parking of such mobile homes or travel trailers. The park system shall
be adequate to provide 20 pounds per square inch of pressure at all mobile home
connections.
   (F)   Provisions shall be made within 150 feet of each travel trailer space
to supply water for travel trailer reservoirs.
   (G)   No well casing, pumps, pumping machinery, or suction pipes shall be
located in any pit, room, or space extending below ground level, nor in any
room or space above ground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed, unless
such rooms, whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the
surface. All floors shall be watertight and sloped from the pump pedestal to
the drain, and floors shall extend at least two feet from the well in all
directions. The pedestal shall not be less than 12 inches above the floor. This
shall not be construed as prohibiting submersible pumps.
   (H)   All water storage reservoirs shall be watertight and construed of
impervious material. All overflows and vents of such reservoirs shall be
effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be
constructed with overlapping covers, so as to prevent the entrance of
contaminated material. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any
pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up.
   (I)   Underground stop and waste-cocks shall not be installed on any
connection.
   (J)   No water well shall draw water from any sands reserved to the town for
its use, except as may be otherwise permitted by ordinances of the town.
   (K)   No water connection shall be made to travel trailer spaces.
(Prior Code, § 12-38) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.49 REFUSE DISPOSAL FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in the park shall be
so managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect-breeding
areas, accident, or fire hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in a flytight, watertight, and rodentproof
containers, which shall be located within 150 feet of any mobile home or
recreational vehicle space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient numbers
and capacity to properly store all refuse.
   (C)   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent containers from
being tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to
facilitate cleaning around them. Lids for containers shall be permanently
connected to racks or holders with chains or other flexible materials.
   (D)   All refuse shall be collected at least once weekly or as otherwise
required by the Health Officer. Where municipal garbage collection is not
available the mobile home park operator shall either employ a private agency or
provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered
vehicles or covered containers.
   (E)   Where municipal or other private disposal service is not available,
the mobile home park operator shall dispose of the refuse by burial or
transporting to an approved disposal site, as directed by the Health Officer.
Refuse shall be buried only at locations and by methods approved by the Health
Officer and in accordance with the ordinances of the town.
   (F)   When municipal refuse disposal service is available, it must be used.
(Prior Code, § 12-39) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.50 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health, as
required by the Health Officer, shall be applied in the park.
   (B)   Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the Health Officer
for fly or mosquito breeding areas which cannot be controlled by other more
permanent measures.
   (C)   The Health Officer may require the park operator to take suitable
measures to control other insects and obnoxious weeds.
   (D)   Accumulations of debris which may provide harborage for rodents shall
not be permitted in the mobile home park.
   (E)   When rats or other rodents are known to be in the park, the park
operator shall take definite action, as directed by the Health Officer, to
exterminate them.
(Prior Code, § 12-40) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.51 ELECTRICITY; EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   An electrical outlet supplying at least 60 amperes shall be provided
for each mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all applicable
state and local Electrical Codes and ordinances. Such electrical outlets and
extension lines shall be grounded and weatherproofed. No power supply line
shall be permitted to lie on the ground and no main power line shall be
suspended less than 18 feet above the ground, unless otherwise approved by the
Inspection Officer.
   (B)   Streets and driveways within mobile home and recreational vehicle
parks shall be lighted with street lights meeting the current standards of the
illuminating engineering society or one-half candlepower, whichever may be
higher.
(Prior Code, § 12-41) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.52 FUEL.
   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile homes
shall be of acceptable material, as determined by the Inspection Officer and
shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place. All fuel storage
tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened and in place and shall not be
located inside or beneath mobile home or less than five feet from any mobile
home exit.
(Prior Code, § 12-42) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.53 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish, and other flammable
materials.
   (B)   Where the water supply system does not provide at least six-inch water
mains, there shall be provided a two-inch, frost-protected water riser within
300 feet of each mobile home or building.
   (C)   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other cooking and/or heating
equipment intended for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 12-43) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.54 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the park shall
be made in accordance with applicable local regulations.
   (B)   Skirting of mobile homes is permissible but areas enclosed by such
skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or
create a fire hazard.
   (C)   A permit issued by the inspecting officer shall be required before any
construction on a mobile home space or any structural addition or alteration to
the exterior of a mobile home takes place. No construction, addition, or
alteration to the exterior of a mobile home located in a mobile home park shall
be permitted unless of the same type of construction or materials as the mobile
home affected. All such construction, additions, or alterations shall be in
compliance with applicable local and state laws. No permit shall be required
for the addition of steps, canopies, awnings, or antennas.
   (D)   No structure, other than a mobile home, shall be permitted on a mobile
home space, except one structure of not to exceed 175 cubic feet, to be used
for storage, may be allowed on each such space.
(Prior Code, § 12-44) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.55 REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Each licensee or permittee shall keep a register containing a record
of all mobile home and recreational vehicle owners and occupants located within
the park. The register shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or occupant of each mobile home
and motor vehicle by which it is owned;
      (2)   The make, model, year, and license of each mobile home and motor
vehicle;
      (3)   The state, territory, or country issuing such license;
      (4)   The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile home; and
      (5)   Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent
mobile home.
   (B)   The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times
by law enforcement officers, public health officials, and other officials whose
duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the register.
The register record of each occupant registered shall not be destroyed for a
period of one year, following the date of departure of the registrant from the
park.
(Prior Code, § 12-45) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine and cost as provided for in §
10.99. Each day upon which such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 12-70)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a cable television franchise to Sentinel T.V. for
1968-1   - -         a period of 25 years.
                     (Prior Code, Chapter 1, Article 9)
2017-1   7-10-2017   Granting an electric franchise to Public Service Company
                     of Oklahoma (PSO) for a period of 25 years.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cite Code Section
O.S. Cite                     Code Section
11 O.S. 1-102                 92.29—
                              92.31
11 O.S. 14-101 et seq.        Chapter 10
11 O.S. 14-108                10.01
11 O.S. 14-109                10.01
11 O.S. 22-101 et seq.        Chapter 10
11 O.S. 27-122.1              32.23
11 O.S. 29-101 et seq.        91.01
22 O.S. 1181 et seq.          30.20
27A O.S. 2-10-101 et seq.     53.02
37 O.S.                       112.18
37A O.S. 1-101 et seq.        112.01;
                              112.02
47 O.S.                       70.01
47 O.S. 1-130—1-147         70.01
47 O.S. Article VI, Chapter 7 70.51
47 O.S. 7-204                 70.51
47 O.S. 7-503                 70.51
47 O.S. 7-600 et seq.         70.50
47 O.S. 11-902                72.05
47 O.S. 761-A                 72.04
47 O.S. 1102                  70.37
47 O.S. 1134                  70.37
51 O.S. 125(c)(2)             34.006
51 O.S. 151 et seq.           34.003
59 O.S. 1680 et seq.          151.09
61 O.S. 101 et seq.           34.002
65 O.S. 1-101 et seq.         93.30
65 O.S. 4-103                 93.31;
                              93.34
                              93.32;
65 O.S. 151 et seq.           93.33;
                              93.35
68 O.S. 205                   34.037;
                              34.067
68 O.S. 217                   34.033;
                              34.064
68 O.S. 220                   34.065
68 O.S. 227                   34.066
                              34.021;
                              34.023;
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.          34.026;
                              34.028;
                              34.029;
                              34.032
68 O.S. 1355                  34.027
68 O.S. 1356                  34.027
68 O.S. 1357                  34.027
68 O.S. 1358                  34.027
68 O.S. 1359                  34.027
68 O.S. 1360                  34.027
                              34.057;
                              34.058;
                              34.062;
68 O.S. 1401 et seq.          34.063;
                              34.069;
                              34.070;
                              34.071
68 O.S. 1408                  34.062
82 O.S. 1084.2                150.04
82 O.S. 1601 et seq.          152.01
220 O.S. 1115.1 et seq.       32.13
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section   2025 Code Section
1-1                  30.01
1-2                  30.02
1-3                  30.03
1-10                 30.15
1-11                 30.16
1-12                 30.17
1-13                 30.18
1-14                 30.19
1-15                 30.20
1-16                 30.21
1-25                 31.20
1-27                 31.21
1-28                 31.01
1-29                 31.22
1-30                 31.23
1-31                 31.24
1-32                 31.25
1-33                 31.26
1-34                 31.27
1-35                 31.28
1-36                 31.29
1-37                 31.30
1-38                 31.31
1-39                 31.32
1-42                 31.33
1-43                 31.34
1-45                 31.35
1-46                 31.02
1-50                 34.001
1-51                 34.002
1-52                 34.003
1-53                 34.004
1-60                 34.020
1-61                 34.021
1-62                 34.022
1-63                 34.023
1-64                 34.024
1-65                 34.025
1-66                 34.026
1-67                 34.027
1-68                 34.028
1-69                 34.029
1-70                 34.030
1-71                 34.031;
                     34.999
1-72                 34.032
1-73                 34.033
1-74                 34.034
1-75                 34.035
1-76                 34.036;
                     34.999
1-77                 34.037;
                     34.999
1-78                 34.038
1-79                 34.039
1-80                 34.040
1-115                34.005
1-116                34.006
1-117                34.006
1-118                34.006
1-119                34.006
1-120                34.006
1-161                34.085
1-162                34.086
1-163                34.087
1-164                34.088
1-165                34.089
1-177                34.007
1-178                34.007
1-184                31.04
1-185                31.05
1-186                31.06
1-187                31.07
1-188                10.30
1-189                10.31
1-190                10.32
Chapter 1, Article 9 TSO Table I
2-1                  112.01
2-2                  112.02
2-5                  112.15
2-6                  112.16;
                     112.99
2-7                  112.17
2-8                  112.18
2-9                  112.19
2-10                 112.20;
                     112.99
2-15                 112.35
2-16                 112.36
2-17                 112.37
2-18                 112.38
2-19                 112.39
2-50                 112.99
3-1                  90.01
3-2                  90.02
3-3                  90.03
3-4                  90.04
3-5                  90.05
3-6                  90.06
3-7                  90.07
3-8                  90.08
3-9                  90.09
3-10                 90.10
3-11                 90.11
3-12                 90.12
3-13                 90.13
3-14                 90.14
3-15                 90.15
3-16                 90.16
3-25                 90.30
3-26                 90.31
3-35                 90.45
3-36                 90.46
3-37                 90.47
3-38                 90.48
3-45                 90.99
4-1                  151.25
4-2                  151.26
4-3                  151.27
4-4                  151.28
4-5                  151.29
4-6                  151.30
4-7                  151.31
4-15                 152.01
4-16                 152.02
4-17                 152.03
4-18                 152.04
4-19                 152.05
4-20                 152.06
4-21                 152.07
4-22                 152.08
4-23                 152.09
4-24                 152.10
4-25                 152.11
4-26                 152.12
4-27                 152.13
4-28                 152.14
4-29                 152.15
4-30                 152.16
4-31                 152.17
4-32                 152.18
4-33                 152.19
4-34                 152.20
4-35                 152.21
4-36                 151.01
4-37                 151.02
4-38                 151.03
4-39                 151.04
4-40                 151.05
4-42                 151.06
4-43                 151.07
4-44                 151.08
4-45                 151.09
4-46                 151.10
4-47                 151.11
4-70                 151.99;
                     152.99
5-1                  110.20
5-2                  110.21
5-3                  110.22
5-4                  110.23
5-5                  110.24
5-10                 110.05
5-11                 110.05
5-12                 110.05
5-15                 95.01
5-16                 95.02
5-17                 95.03
5-18                 95.04
5-19                 95.05
5-20                 95.06
5-21                 95.07
5-22                 95.08
5-23                 95.09
5-24                 95.10;
                     95.99
5-25                 95.11;
                     95.99
5-26                 95.12
5-27                 95.13
5-29                 95.14;
                     95.99
5-35                 110.01
5-36                 110.02
5-37                 110.03
5-38                 110.04
5-45                 110.99;
                     113.99
6-1                  94.01
6-2                  94.02
6-3                  94.03
6-4                  94.04
6-5                  94.05
6-6                  94.06
6-11                 94.20
6-12                 94.21
6-13                 94.22
6-14                 94.23
6-15                 94.24
6-21                 94.99
7-10                 33.01
7-11                 33.02
7-12                 33.03
7-13                 33.04
7-20                 33.99
8-1                  91.01
8-2                  91.02
8-3                  91.03
8-22                 91.17
8-23                 91.18
8-30                 91.99
9-20                 10.99
10-1                 92.05
10-2                 92.05
10-3                 92.05
10-10                92.04
10-11                92.04
10-12                92.04
10-13                92.04
10-20                92.01
10-35                92.02
10-36                92.03
10-37                92.99
11-1                 52.15
11-2                 52.16
11-3                 52.17
11-10                52.18
11-11                52.19
11-12                52.20
11-13                52.21
11-14                52.22
11-25                52.99
12-1                 153.01
12-2                 153.02
12-3                 153.03
12-4                 153.04
12-5                 153.05
12-6                 153.06
12-10                153.20
12-11                153.21
12-12                153.22
12-13                153.23
12-14                153.24
12-15                153.25
12-16                153.26
12-20                153.07
12-30                153.40
12-31                153.41
12-32                153.42
12-33                153.43
12-34                153.44
12-35                153.45
12-36                153.46
12-37                153.47
12-38                153.48
12-39                153.49
12-40                153.50
12-41                153.51
12-42                153.52
12-43                153.53
12-44                153.54
12-45                153.55
12-50                153.08
12-70                153.99
13-1                 32.01
13-2                 32.02
13-11                32.03
13-12                32.04
13-13                32.05
13-14                32.06
13-15                32.07
13-16                32.08
13-17                32.09
13-18                32.10
13-19                32.11
13-20                32.12
13-21                32.13
13-22                32.14
13-23                32.15
13-24                32.16
13-25                32.17
13-26                32.18
13-27                32.19
13-28                32.20
13-29                32.21
13-30                32.22
13-31                32.23
13-32                32.24
13-33                32.25
13-34                32.26
13-35                32.27
13-40                32.28
14-1                 92.20
14-2                 92.21
14-3                 92.22
14-4                 92.23
14-5                 92.24
14-6                 92.25
14-7                 92.26
14-10                92.27
14-11                92.28
14-12                92.29
14-13                92.30
14-14                92.31
14-25                92.99
15-1                 130.01
15-2                 130.02
15-3                 130.03
15-4                 130.04
15-10                131.01
15-11                131.02
15-12                131.03
15-14                131.05
15-15                131.06
15-16                131.07
15-17                131.08
15-18                131.09
15-19                131.10
15-20                131.11
15-21                131.12;
                     131.99
15-30                132.01;
                     132.99
15-31                132.02
15-32                132.03
15-33                132.04
15-34                132.05
15-35                132.06;
                     132.99
15-40                133.01;
                     133.99
15-41                133.02
15-50                134.01
15-51                134.02
15-52                134.03
15-53                134.04
15-54                134.05
15-55                134.06
15-56                134.07
15-57                134.08
15-58                134.09
15-71                92.45
15-72                92.46
15-73                92.47
15-74                92.48
15-75                92.49
15-76                94.50
15-80                135.01
15-81                135.02
15-82                135.03
15-83                135.04
15-84                135.05
15-85                135.06
15-86                135.07
15-87                135.08
15-88                135.09
15-89                150.01
15-100               130.99
16-1                 111.01
16-2                 111.02
16-3                 111.03
16-4                 111.04
16-5                 111.05
16-6                 111.06
16-7                 111.07
16-8                 111.08
16-15                111.09
16-20                111.99
17-10                93.01
17-11                93.02
17-12                93.03
17-13                93.04
17-14                93.05
17-15                93.06
17-16                93.07
17-17                93.08
17-18                93.09
17-19                93.10
17-20                93.11
17-21                93.12
17-22                93.13
17-23                93.14
17-24                93.15
17-25                93.16
17-30                93.17
17-31                93.99
19-22                93.30
19-23                93.31
19-24                93.32
19-25                93.33
19-26                93.34
19-27                93.35
20-1                 50.01
20-2                 50.02
20-3                 50.03
20-4                 50.04
20-5                 50.05
20-6                 50.06
20-7                 50.07
20-8                 50.08
20-9                 50.09
20-10                50.10
20-11                50.11
20-12                50.12
20-13                50.13
20-14                50.14
20-15                50.15
20-20                51.01
20-21                51.02
20-22                51.03
20-23                51.04
20-24                51.05
20-25                51.06
20-26                51.07
20-27                51.08
20-28                51.09
20-29                51.10
20-30                51.11
20-31                51.12
20-32                51.13
20-40                52.01
20-41                52.02
20-42                53.03
20-48                53.01
20-49                53.02
20-50                53.03
20-51                53.04
20-52                53.05
20-53                53.06
20-54                53.07
20-55                53.08
20-56                53.09
                     50.99;
20-70                51.99;
                     52.99;
                     53.99
21-1                 150.01
21-2                 150.02
21-3                 150.03
21-4                 150.04
21-20                150.99
22-1                 70.01
22-5                 70.02
22-6                 72.01
22-7                 70.03
22-8                 70.04
22-9                 70.05
22-10                70.06
22-11                70.07
22-12                72.02
22-13                72.03
22-14                72.04;
                     72.99
22-15                72.05;
                     72.99
22-16                72.06
22-17                72.07
22-18                72.08
22-19                73.08
22-25                74.01
22-26                74.02
22-27                74.03
22-28                74.04
22-29                74.05
22-30                74.06
22-35                70.35
22-36                70.36
22-37                70.37;
                     70.99
22-45                71.01
22-46                71.02
22-47                71.03
22-48                71.04
22-49                71.05
22-50                71.06
22-51                71.07
22-52                71.08
22-65                73.01
22-66                73.02
22-67                73.03
22-68                73.04
22-69                73.05
22-70                73.06
22-71                73.07
22-80                75.01
22-81                75.02
22-82                75.03
22-83                75.04
22-90                70.08
22-91                70.08
22-92                70.08
22-100               70.50
22-101               70.51
22-102               70.52
22-103               70.53
22-110               70.09
22-111               70.10
22-112               70.11
22-113               70.12
22-114               70.13
22-115               70.14
22-116               70.15
22-117               70.16
22-118               70.17
22-119               70.18
22-120               70.19
22-121               70.20
22-122               72.09
22-123               72.10
22-124               72.11
22-135               70.99;
                     72.99
23-1                 76.01
23-2                 76.02
23-3                 76.03
23-4                 76.04
23-5                 76.05
23-30                76.99
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1968-1   - -         TSO Table I
2018-02  - -         150.05
335      1-5-1984    131.05
2016-1   - -2016     91.15;
                     91.16
2017-1   7-10-2017   TSO Table I
2018-1   6-22-2018   113.01—
                     113.05
2019-1   3-11-2019   90.17
2019-2   3-11-2019   113.02
2019-3   12-20-2019  31.03
                     34.055—
2020-1   7-13-2020   34.072;
                     34.999
                    
 
