TOWN CODE
of
SHATTUCK, OKLAHOMA
Code current through:
Ord. 468, passed 2-16-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the town of Shattuck, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 468, passed February 16, 2023. Ordinances of the town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF
SHATTUCK, OKLAHOMA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED
THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREAFTER PROVIDED; PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL
BECOME EFFECTIVE; PROVIDING FOR SALE AND COPIES IN THE CLERK'S OFFICE;
PROVIDING FOR SUPPLEMENTS OR CHANGES TO CODE; AND PROVIDING FOR AN EMERGENCY:
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF SHATTUCK, OKLAHOMA:
SECTION 1   TITLE.
   A code and revision of the ordinances of the Town of Shattuck is hereby
adopted as the "Code of Ordinances, Town of Shattuck, Oklahoma," or by any
other properly identifying designation.
SECTION 2   CODE SUPERSEDES OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This code shall be treated and considered as a new and comprehensive
ordinance of the town which shall supersede all other general and permanent
ordinances enacted by the board of trustees prior to November 1, 1985, except
such as by reference thereto are expressly saved from repeal or continued in
force and effect for any purpose.
SECTION 3   EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE, REPEAL.
   All provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect from the date
this ordinance becomes law. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the town in effect on or before November 1, 1985, and not in the code or
recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 4   ORDINANCES NOT REPEALED.
   The repeal provided for in Section 3 hereof shall not affect any offense or
act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or
right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing
the payment of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the town or any evidence of the town's indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the town; nor shall the repeal affect the administrative
regulations or resolution of the town board of trustees not in conflict or
inconsistent with the provisions of the code; nor shall the repeal affect any
right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the town board of
trustees to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall the repeal affect any
ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
vacating, etc., any street or public way in the town; nor shall the repeal
affect any annual budget or salary ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any
ordinance levying or imposing taxes; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the town; nor
shall the repeal affect any ordinance providing for local improvements and
assessing charges therefor; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance
dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the town; nor shall the
repeal affect any ordinance extending the limits of the town; nor shall the
repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been
repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance; nor
shall the repeal affect any rate, fee or charge in effect as of the effective
date of this code until such rate, fee or charge is specifically amended by
ordinances motion or resolution. The continuance in effect of temporary or
special ordinances and parts of ordinances, although omitted from the code,
shall not be affected by such omission therefrom and the adoption of the code
shall not repeal or amend any such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
SECTION 5   CODE NOT NEW ENACTMENT.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this code, shall be
considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
SECTION 6   ORDINANCES ADOPTED AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE.
   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed
or adopted on and after the effective date of this code may be passed or
adopted either:
   1. In the form of amendments to the code of ordinances adopted by this
ordinance; or
   2. Without specific reference to the code.
In either case, all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed
amendments to the code. All of the substantive permanent and general parts of
such ordinances and changes made thereby in the code, shall be inserted and
made in the code whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or
ordinance of the town board of trustees, as provided hereinafter.
SECTION 7   SUPPLEMENTS TO CODE.
   By contract or by town personnel, a change, or supplement, to the code of
ordinances adopted by this ordinance shall be prepared and printed whenever
authorized or directed by the town board of trustees. A change to the code
shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed
by the board of trustees or adopted by initiative and referendum during the
period covered by the change and all changes made thereby in the code. The
pages of a change shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the
code and, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or
partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have
been inserted, the code will be up to date to the date to which the code is
being brought up to date. Each change shall include a new title page for the
code; and the title page shall include a notation below the title indicating
that the code contains all permanent and general ordinances and parts of
ordinances passed prior to the date to which the code is brought up to date and
still in effect. The words "as amended" and the date, may be added to the title
after the year. After every change has been prepared and printed, a number of
copies of the change equal at least to the number of copies of the code still
in existence, shall be deposited in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. The
town clerk-treasurer, if possible, shall notify each holder of a copy of the
original code about the availability of the change or supplement.
SECTION 8   SALE OF COPIES OF THE CODE.
   The town clerk-treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of
the code of ordinances to the public at a price determined from time to time by
motion or resolution of the town board of trustees.
SECTION 9   COPY OF CODE IN CLERK'S OFFICE.
   A copy of the current code as amended or supplemented from time to time
shall be kept on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. This copy of
the code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine it; it shall be
considered the official code of ordinances of the town, and may be so certified
by the town clerk-treasurer as may be required.
SECTION 10   PREPARATION OF CODE.
   The code of ordinances hereby adopted consists of Seventeen (17) Parts, all
of which have been examined, considered and approved by the town board of
trustees of the Town of Shattuck and adopted by compliance with Sections
14-109 et seq. of Title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
SECTION 11   EMERGENCY.
   Reference being made to "Section 3" hereinbefore set out, whereas, it being
immediately necessary for the preservation of the peace, health and safety of
the Town of Shattuck, Oklahoma, and the inhabitants thereof, that the
provisions of this Ordinance and the new provisions of the Code not heretofore
enacted be put into full force and effect, an emergency is hereby declared to
exist, by reason whereof this Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force
from and after its passage, as provided by law.
   Passed and approved this 10th day of March 1986.
   YEAS:   Wells, Schoenhals, Oblander, Koch, Trendle
   NAYS:   None
   ABSENT:   None
         /s/ Coke M. Trendle   
         Mayor
ATTEST: (Seal)
/s/ Elizabeth Hill   
Clerk
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
PART 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Use And Construction Of The Code   1
Corporate Limits   2
CHAPTER 1
USE AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE CODE
SECTION:
1-101: How Code Designated And Cited
1-102: Rules Of Construction
1-103: Catchlines Of Sections; Citations
1-104: Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
1-105: Severability Of Parts Of Code
1-106: Amendment To Code; Effect Of New Ordinances; Amendatory Language
1-107: Altering Code
1-108: General Penalty
1-109: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
1-110: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory Of Town
1-101: HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED 1 :
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute
and be designated the CODE OF ORDINANCES, TOWN OF SHATTUCK, OKLAHOMA, and may
be so cited. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 14-108, 14-109.
1-102: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the following
rules are observed unless the construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the board of trustees:
      1.   "Board of trustees or town board" shall mean the board of trustees
of the town of Shattuck.
      2.   Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the
day on which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in
computing the time but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not
be counted.
      3.   "County or this county" means the county of Ellis, Oklahoma.
      4.   "Gender". A word importing one gender only shall extend and be
applied to other genders and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
      5.   "Joint authority". All words giving "joint authority" to three (3)
or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      6.   "Law" includes applicable federal law, provisions of the
constitution and statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the town
and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
      7.   "Mayor" means the mayor of the town.
      8.   "Month" means a calendar month.
      9.   Nontechnical and technical words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
      10.   "Number". A word importing the singular number only may extend and
be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Words used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
      11.   "Oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in
which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such
cases, the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm"
and "affirmed".
      12.   "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
      13.   "Other officials or officers", etc. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies or departments by title only, i.e., "clerk-treasurer", "town
clerk-treasurer", "town attorney", "fire chief", "chief of police", etc., they
shall mean the officers, agencies or departments of the town.
      14.   "Person" shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any
persons and to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies
politic and corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
      15.   "Preceding, following" means next before and next after,
respectively.
      16.   "Property" shall include real and personal property.
      17.   "Signature or subscription" includes a mark when a person cannot
write.
      18.   "State or this state" shall be construed to mean the state of
Oklahoma.
      19.   "Statutory references" means references to statutes of the state of
Oklahoma as they now are or as they may be amended to be.
      20.   "Street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues,
boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares,
curbs and all other public ways in the town which are dedicated and open to
public use.
      21.   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future
as well as the past and present.
      22.   "Week" means seven (7) days.
      23.   "Town" means the town of Shattuck.
      24.   "Year" means a calendar year. (1985 Code)
1-103: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; CITATIONS:
The catchlines of sections in this code are printed in capital letters and
citations included at the end of sections are intended to indicate the contents
of the section and original historical source respectively, and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles and official sources of such sections; nor as any
part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, or citations, are amended
or reenacted. (1985 Code)
1-104: EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES:
   A.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   B.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance
repealed. (1985 Code)
1-105: SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of trustees that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code or of any ordinance in the code shall be declared unconstitutional,
illegal or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of
this code of ordinances. (1985 Code)
1-106: AMENDMENT TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE 1 :
   A.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code of ordinances may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection
or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
   B.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language:
Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Shattuck, Oklahoma, that
Section                 of the code of ordinances of the town of Shattuck,
Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as follows: (Set out new provisions in
full.)
   C.   When the board of trustees desires to enact an ordinance of a general
and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which
the board desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the
following language may be made part of the ordinance:
Section              Be it ordained by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Shattuck, Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be
made a part of the code of ordinances of the Town of Shattuck, Oklahoma, and
the sections of this ordinance may be re-numbered to accomplish this intention.
   D.   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to
be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the
case may be. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 14-103 et seq.
1-107: ALTERING CODE:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the town to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this chapter. (1985 Code)
1-108: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the town an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine of not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00). Each day or any
portion of a day during which any violation of this code or of any ordinance
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 322, 2-9-1998)
   B.   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this
section. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 14-111, 27-119.
1-109: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION:
All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law. (1985 Code)
1-110: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF TOWN:
All ordinances of the town now in effect within the town are hereby extended to
all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town outside the
corporate limits of the town, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar as
they are applicable. All ordinances of the town which shall go into effect in
the future, shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the boundaries of
all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in any
ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited to
the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed to mean and include also the
outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the town, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CORPORATE LIMITS
SECTION:
1-201: Map Of Town Designated As Official Map
1-201: MAP OF TOWN DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP:
The map of the town showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as the
official map of the town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all
annexations made to the town through and including the date of November 1,
1985. (1985 Code)
PART 2
ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
Town Board Of Trustees   1
Mayor   2
Town Officers And Personnel   3
Social Security   4
Firefighters' Pension And Retirement Fund   5
Records   6
CHAPTER 1
TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-101: General Powers
2-102: Membership; Terms
2-103: Meetings Of The Town Board
2-104: Rules Of Order And Procedure
2-105: Trustees May Be Designated To Perform Duties
2-101: GENERAL POWERS:
   A.   Pursuant to the provisions of 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 12-101, the
town shall have all the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and
immunities granted, or which may be granted to towns governed by the statutory
town board of trustees form of government. These powers shall be exercised as
provided by law applicable to towns under the board of trustees form of
government, or, if the manner is not prescribed, then in such manner as the
board of trustees may prescribe.
   B.   The powers, rights and authorities of the town, including the
determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in and exercised by the
board of trustees. (1985 Code)
2-102: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS 1 :
   A.   The board of trustees shall consist of five (5) members, nominated and
elected at large without regard to their place of residence within the town
limits. Trustees shall be actual residents and registered voters of the town.
   B.   The term of office for a trustee shall be four (4) years beginning at
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the second Monday following the general
municipal election. The trustee shall serve until his successor is elected and
qualified. The terms of the trustees shall be staggered so that at one general
municipal election, the following trustees are elected for four (4) year terms:
      1.   Trustees from one, three (3), and five (5); and
      2.   Clerk-treasurer.
At the next general municipal election, the following officers are to be
elected for four (4) year terms:
      1.   Trustees two (2) and four (4). (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 12-102, 12-103, 8-102, 16-205, 8-109, 12-102.1.
2-103: MEETINGS OF THE TOWN BOARD 1 :
   A.   The board of trustees shall meet regularly, on the second Monday of
each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., and at such other times as it may
prescribe by ordinance, resolution, or otherwise. Where the day for a meeting
falls upon a day which is a legal holiday in the state, the meeting shall be
held on the next succeeding day which is not a holiday. Special meetings may be
called by the mayor or any three (3) trustees. A majority of all the members of
the board shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may
adjourn from day to day. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 336, 1-28-2002)
   B.   All meetings, regular, special or otherwise, shall be held in the
council room in the town hall unless otherwise specified by duly recorded act
of the board of trustees to be made public by duly published notice in the
"Northwest Oklahoman" newspaper. (Ord. 336, 1-28-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 12-107; 25 OS §§ 301–314.
2-104: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   The board may determine its own rules, and may compel the attendance of
absent members in the manner and under penalties as the board may prescribe.
Whenever a trustee is absent from more than one-half (1/2) of all meetings of
the board, regular and special, held within any period of four (4) consecutive
months, he shall thereupon cease to hold office.
   B.   The order of business for each meeting of the board shall be as posted
on the agenda for the meeting.
   C.   The following rules of procedure shall apply to any regular or special
meeting of the board unless three (3) trustees agree to waive the rule or
rules:
      1.   At the request of the mayor or any board member, all motions shall
be reduced to writing;
      2.   A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the board shall not
be entertained unless it be made by a member who previously voted in the
majority;
      3.   No motion shall be debated or put until it be seconded and stated by
the mayor. It is then and not until then in possession of the board and cannot
be withdrawn but by leave of the board;
      4.   A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as
follows:
         a.   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
         b.   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
         c.   When the previous question has been ordered; or
         d.   While a vote is being taken.
A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which the meeting is
adjourned;
      5.   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but:
         a.   To adjourn;
         b.   To lay on the table;
         c.   For the previous question;
         d.   To postpone to a day certain;
         e.   To commit;
         f.   To amend; or
         g.   To postpone indefinitely,
which several motions shall have precedence in the order they stand arranged;
      6.   When a proper motion is made, but information is wanted, the motion
is to postpone to a day certain;
      7.   Matters claiming present attention for which it is desired to
reserve for more suitable occasion, the order is a motion to lay on the table;
the matter may then be called for at any time. If the proposition may need
further consideration at the hands of a committee, the motion is to refer to a
committee, but if it need but a few and simple amendments, the board shall
proceed to consider and amend at once;
      8.   On an amendment's being moved, a member who has spoken on the main
question may speak again to the amendment;
      9.   The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the
negative side. After the affirmative part of the question has been put, any
member who has not spoken before to the question may arise and speak before the
negative be put;
      10.   When a question has been moved and seconded and has been put by the
presiding officer in the affirmative and negative, it cannot be debated unless
under motion for reconsideration; and
      11.   "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern proceedings so long as it
does not conflict with motions, resolutions or ordinances of the board or state
law. (1985 Code)
2-105: TRUSTEES MAY BE DESIGNATED TO PERFORM DUTIES:
The board of trustees may designate various ones of its members or a committee
of its members to have supervision of various personnel and activities of the
town, such as streets, water systems and so on, and may give each such trustee
or committee designated an appropriate title. Each such trustee or committee so
designated shall be subordinate to the board. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MAYOR
SECTION:
2-201: Election And Duties Of The Mayor
2-201: ELECTION AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR 1 :
   A.   The board of trustees shall elect from among its members a mayor. The
mayor shall be elected in each odd numbered year at the first board of trustees
meeting held after trustee terms begin, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
The mayor shall serve until his successor has been elected and qualified.
   B.   The mayor shall preside at meetings of the board and shall certify to
the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He shall
be recognized as head of the town government for all ceremonial purposes and
shall have such other powers, duties, and functions as may be prescribed by law
or ordinance. The mayor shall have all the powers, rights, duties and
responsibilities of a trustee, including the right to vote on questions.
   C.   During the absence, disability or suspension of the mayor, the board
shall elect from among its members an acting mayor. When a vacancy occurs in
the office of the mayor, the board shall elect another mayor from among its
members to serve for the duration of the unexpired term. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 12-104, 12-105.
CHAPTER 3
TOWN OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
2-301: Town Clerk-Treasurer, Bookkeeping Duties
2-302: Town Attorney, Appointment And Duties
2-303: Health Officer
2-304: Other Personnel, Appointments, Removals
2-305: Bonds
2-306: Salaries
2-307: Compensation Of Employees, Number And Classes Of Personnel
2-308: Salaries Of Certain Officers Not To Be Changed After Election Or
Appointment
2-309: Oaths
2-310: Officers To Continue Until Successors Are Elected And Qualify
2-311: Appointment Of Personnel In Emergencies
2-301: TOWN CLERK-TREASURER, BOOKKEEPING DUTIES 1 :
   A.   The town clerk-treasurer is an elected official of the town, elected
for a four (4) year term.
   B.   As clerk, the town clerk-treasurer shall:
      1.   Keep the journal of the proceedings of the board;
      2.   Enroll in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the board;
      3.   Have custody of documents, records and archives as may be provided
by law or ordinance and have custody of the town seal;
      4.   Attest and affix the seal of the town to documents as required by
law or ordinance; and
      5.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance or by the board.
   C.   As treasurer, the town clerk-treasurer shall:
      1.   Maintain accounts and books to show where and from what source all
monies paid to him have been derived and to whom and when any monies have been
paid;
      2.   Deposit daily funds received for the town in depositories as the
board may designate; and
      3.   Have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law or ordinance.
The treasurer's books and accounts shall at all times be subject to examination
by the board.
   D.   When the words "clerk" or "treasurer" are used in this code or in other
ordinances of the town, they shall be deemed to mean the town clerk-treasurer
or the deputy town clerk-treasurer unless another meaning is clearly indicated
by the context. (Amended 1987)
   E.   1. There is hereby created the position for the performance of such
additional administrative duties relating to the maintenance of the books and
records and office operations of the town not specified by state law, as an
employee of the town as the board of trustees shall from time to time
prescribe. Said position shall be filled by the person serving as town clerk-
treasurer, or as otherwise provided by motion or other action of the council.
Said person shall be an employee of the town and shall serve at the pleasure of
the board of trustees and shall perform such duties as may be specified by the
council, mayor or town administrator and shall be referred to as the clerk
executive. The extra duties to be performed by the clerk executive shall
include the following: receiving, processing and writing checks for the
payments of any and all claims and voucher orders; the maintenance of the
records of the Shattuck municipal authority and the reception, processing and
payment of all bills of said municipal authority; the filing, indexing and
safekeeping of all actions of the zoning board, cemetery board, library board
and any other board not herein named that has been established prior hereto or
may be established hereafter and oversee the water office employees and provide
relief, handle all insurance for the town including fire department, prepare
budget for the trustees approval and monitor budget, prepare financial
statements for the trustees. This position also acts as human resources for the
town.
      2.   The pay period for such position shall be the same as for other
municipal employees. Effective July 1, 2014, the salary for the position shall
be in the amount of one thousand two hundred fifty seven dollars ($1,257.00),
each pay period. Benefits, holidays, sick leave and comp time for such position
shall be provided in accordance with any personnel policy or other policy of
the town. The salary of the position shall not be subject to constitutional
restrictions.
   F.   The pay period for the clerk-treasurer of the town of Shattuck,
Oklahoma, shall be biweekly. The clerk shall be paid each pay period the amount
of four hundred twenty three dollars seven cents ($423.07) contingent upon the
clerk's performance of the clerk-treasurer's statutory duties of the office.
Any increase or decrease in clerk's salary for legal duties shall not go into
effect until the next term of office. (Ord. 422, 10-14-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 12-109, 16-205, 8-109, 12-110; 19 OS § 645.
2-302: TOWN ATTORNEY, APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES:
The board of trustees may appoint a town attorney or may secure the services of
an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when needed. The town attorney,
when and if appointed, shall be the legal adviser of the board, all officers,
departments and agencies of the town government in matters relating to their
official powers and duties. He shall represent the town in proceedings in the
courts. He shall perform all services incident to his position which may be
required by law or ordinance. (1985 Code)
2-303: HEALTH OFFICER:
The board of trustees may appoint a town health officer. The county health
officer or any qualified personnel of the state department of health may
perform the duties and functions of a town health officer. (1985 Code)
2-304: OTHER PERSONNEL, APPOINTMENTS, REMOVALS:
   A.   The board of trustees may appoint such other officers and employees as
it deems desirable and may determine their compensation by motion or
resolution, and may demote, suspend, lay off or remove all such personnel in
compliance with due process and other requirements of law.
   B.   An employee or officer who, after a probationary period as set by the
town board, is laid off, suspended without pay for more than ten (10) days,
demoted or removed may appeal in writing to the town board. The appeal must be
filed with the town clerk- treasurer for transmittal to the board within ten
(10) days after receipt of the notice of the layoff, suspension, demotion or
removal. As soon as practicable thereafter, the board shall conduct a hearing
on the appeal, or give an adequate opportunity therefor, and shall report in
writing its findings and recommendations and make its final decision in writing
regarding the appellant's layoff, suspension, demotion or removal. If the board
finds that the layoff, suspension, demotion or removal was made for any reason
other than the good of the service, it shall veto the layoff, suspension,
demotion or removal and order the reinstatement of the employee or officer. Any
proceedings of the board shall be subject to open meeting laws and applicable
exceptions provided for executive sessions. Employees or officers on
probationary status may be laid off, suspended without pay, demoted or removed
at any time without the written statement, hearings and procedures required in
this section. (1985 Code)
2-305: BONDS 1 :
The board shall require the town clerk-treasurer and any other officers and
employees as it may designate by ordinance or otherwise to give bond for the
faithful performance of duties in such amount and form as the board shall
prescribe. The town shall pay the premiums on such bonds. The town may require
the officer to secure the bond within ten (10) days after his election or
appointment. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 8-105.
2-306: SALARIES 1 :
   A.   The compensation of all elective town officers, including the
following, shall be fixed by ordinance:
      1.   Mayor;
      2.   Each trustee; and
      3.   Town clerk-treasurer. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 12-113. See also subsection 2-301F of this chapter.
2-307: COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES, NUMBER AND CLASSES OF PERSONNEL:
   A.   The compensation of all other officers and employees, except those
whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be determined
by motion or resolution adopted by the board of trustees, and may be changed at
any time in the same manner.
   B.   Except as the law provides otherwise, the board of trustees may
determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees. (1985
Code)
2-308: SALARIES OF CERTAIN OFFICERS NOT TO BE CHANGED AFTER ELECTION OR
APPOINTMENT:
In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any town officer elected or
appointed for a definite term, be changed after his election or appointment or
during his term of office unless by operation of an ordinance passed prior to
such election or appointment, such being prohibited by the Oklahoma
constitution, article 23, section 10. This provision shall not apply to
officers chosen for indefinite terms nor to employees. (1985 Code)
2-309: OATHS:
   A.   All officers of the town, but not employees, are required to take the
oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the state constitution before they
enter upon their duties.
   B.   Both officers and employees are currently required to take and
subscribe to the loyalty oath prescribed by state law. (1985 Code)
2-310: OFFICERS TO CONTINUE UNTIL SUCCESSORS ARE ELECTED AND QUALIFY:
Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term, shall continue
to serve thereafter until his successor is elected or appointed and qualifies,
unless his services are sooner terminated by resignation, disqualification,
removal, death, abolition of the office, or other legal manner. (1985 Code)
2-311: APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL IN EMERGENCIES:
The mayor may, in an emergency situation, appoint such other officers and
employees as he may deem necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the town during the existence of the emergency, subject to the
approval of the board of trustees as soon as a special meeting or regular
meeting can reasonably be called or held therefor. The board of trustees may
determine the compensation of such emergency employees by motion or resolution
and may direct the demotion, layoff or removal of such personnel at the
conclusion of such emergency. For the purposes of this section, the term
"emergency" shall be defined to mean an unexpected or unforeseen contingency or
catastrophic event affecting the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of
the town. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SOCIAL SECURITY
SECTION:
2-401: Declaration Of Policy To Come Under Coverage
2-402: Execution Of Agreement With State Agency
2-403: Withholdings
2-404: Contributions
2-405: Records And Reports
2-406: Exclusions
2-401: DECLARATION OF POLICY TO COME UNDER COVERAGE 1 :
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the town to extend, at
the earliest date, to the eligible employees and officials of the town, the
benefits of the system of federal old age and survivors insurance as authorized
by the federal social security act and all amendments thereto, and 51 Oklahoma
Statutes section 121 et seq. In pursuance of this policy, the officers and
employees of the town shall take such action as may be required by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 51 OS § 125.
2-402: EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT WITH STATE AGENCY:
The mayor is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and
amendments with the state department of human services to accomplish the
provisions of section
2-401 of this chapter. (1985 Code)
2-403: WITHHOLDINGS:
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purposes
provided in section
2-401 of this chapter are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at
such times as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated
by the laws and regulations. (1985 Code)
2-404: CONTRIBUTIONS:
Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts appropriated for these
purposes from available funds to the designated state or federal agency in
accordance with applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (1985 Code)
2-405: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The town clerk shall keep such records and submit such reports as may be
required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (1985 Code)
2-406: EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   Excluded from this chapter authorizing the extension of social security
benefits to town officers and employees are the following:
      1.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
town; or
      2.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION AND RETIREMENT FUND
SECTION:
2-501: Contributions To Fund
2-501: CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUND 1 :
   A.   The clerk shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each paid member
of the fire department the appropriate amounts of money as established and
required by state law as contribution to the firefighters' pension fund.
However, if the members of the fire department, by a majority vote of its paid
members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts authorized
by this subsection shall be increased to reflect the amounts approved by the
majority vote. The treasurer of the town shall deposit monthly with the
Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement board the amounts deducted
pursuant to this subsection. Any amounts deducted from the salary or wages of a
fire department member shall be made at the time of each payroll. The
deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be able to
ascertain the exact amount which he is contributing.
   B.   The town treasurer shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
firefighters' pension and retirement board the amounts of money as established
and required by state law for each paid member of the fire department.
   C.   For each volunteer member of the fire department, the town treasurer
shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement
board the amounts of money as established and required by state law. These
amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as set by the
Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement board.
   D.   All assets of the town firefighters' pension and retirement fund shall
be transferred to the Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement board.
Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities and such
other specific assets as permitted by the state board. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 49-122, as amended by senate bill 265, effective 1-1-1981.
CHAPTER 6
RECORDS
SECTION:
2-601: Definitions
2-602: Preservation Of Documents
2-603: Disposal Of Documents
2-604: Rules And Regulations
2-605: Penalties
2-601: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CURRENT FISCAL YEAR: A fiscal year which is a either still in process, i.e.,
not completed, or a fiscal year upon which no audit has been completed by the
town auditors.
ORDERLY MANNER: Sorting documents into clearly marked and indexed containers in
a reasonable and logical fashion so that access to any such documents and
records can be obtained in a minimum amount of time.
SAFE PLACE: A reasonably fire, flood, and theft resistant repository with
access limited to only bonded employees of the town or persons under their
direct supervision.
SECURE PLACE: A fireproof, floodproof, theftproof repository with access
limited to only bonded employees of the town and members of the town board of
trustees. (Added 1987)
2-602: PRESERVATION OF DOCUMENTS:
   A.   All papers, documents and records of the town shall be preserved and
kept in the following manner:
      1.   Records, papers, and documents for each current fiscal year shall be
kept in an orderly manner in a secure place in the town hall; and
      2.   After the end of each current fiscal year, records, papers, and
documents may be transferred to any safe place outside the town hall which has
been designated by the board as a repository and stored there in an orderly
manner. (Added 1987)
2-603: DISPOSAL OF DOCUMENTS:
   A.   No papers, documents, or records of the town shall be destroyed, sold,
or otherwise disposed of without the approval of the town board by majority
vote.
   B.   The town board may order the destruction, sale for salvage or disposal
of the following papers, documents, or records after the expiration of the
specified period of time following the end of the fiscal year in which the
paper, document or record was created, except as otherwise specified:
      1.   Two (2) years: parking citations may be destroyed or otherwise
permanently disposed of two (2) years after the date of issuances;
      2.   Five (5) years: water, sewer, garbage and utility receipts and
statements, which have been previously audited; miscellaneous petitions and
letters addressed to the governing body on matters other than pertaining to the
items hereinafter set forth; utility billing ledgers or registers; utility cash
receipts ledgers or registers; and utility accounts receivable ledger or
register. Fire run contracts may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of two (2)
years after their expiration;
      3.   Five (5) years: successful and unsuccessful bids for the purchase of
furnishing of equipment, material and improvements; claims that have been
denied; license applications; bonds; special, primary and general election
payrolls; election tabulations and returns; department reports; withholding
statements; garnishment records; traffic tickets and receipts; bond receipts
and fine receipts; paid general obligation and revenue bonds; paid street
improvement, sewer and sidewalk district bonds; warrants; claims; checks;
vouchers; purchase orders; payrolls; municipal court files; and papers
pertaining to violations of municipal ordinances, except parking citations and
court dockets;
      4.   Ten (10) years: inspection records; inventories; appropriation
ledgers; sidewalk assessment records, except payment records; cash receipt book
or register for the general fund, the street and alley fund, any bond fund or
sinking fund and all other trust funds that have been audited; and
      5.   Fifteen (15) years: sewer and improvement district records, except
payment records.
None of the above mentioned records, papers or documents pertaining to pending
litigation shall be disposed of until such litigation is finally terminated.
This section shall not be construed to authorize or allow the destruction of
any testing laboratory results or the inspection records of public improvements
of the town. (Added 1987)
2-604: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The board of trustees of the town is hereby authorized to promulgate
such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Any such rules or regulations so promulgated shall be enforceable in
the same manner as the provisions of this chapter. (Added 1987)
2-605: PENALTIES:
Any employee of the town who violates any provision of this chapter, or any
rule or regulation duly promulgated thereunder, either by doing that which is
prohibited or by failing or refusing to do that which is commanded, shall be
guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in
section
1-108 of this code. In addition, violation of any provision of this chapter by
an employee of the town shall be grounds for immediate suspension or
termination of such employee. (Added 1987)
PART 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Alcoholic Beverages And Tax   1
Reserved   2
Minors   3
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND TAX
SECTION:
3-101: Definitions
3-102: Location Restrictions
3-103: ABLE Governance
3-104: Occupational Tax
3-101: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, words and phrases shall have the same meaning as
defined pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, at title 37A
Oklahoma Statutes
1-101 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 453, 11-13-2018)
3-102: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any package store, mixed beverage
establishment, beer and wine establishment or bottle club which has been
licensed by the ABLE Commission and which has as its main purpose the selling
or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, to be
located within three hundred feet (300') of any public or private school or
church property;
   B.   The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such public or private school or church to the nearest
perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage establishment, beer
and wine establishment, bottle club or package store which has been licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   Establishments licensed prior to October 1, 2018 to sell low- point
beer which were permitted to be located within three hundred feet (300') of any
public or private school or church property primarily and regularly used for
worship services and religious activities, pursuant to the provisions of
section 163.27 of title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes. Such establishments shall
be permitted to have any license in effect on October 1, 2018, transferred to a
mixed beverage license, beer and wine license on/off premises, provided, if
such an establishment ceases to regularly be open to the public or changes
ownership, the provisions of this paragraph shall cease to apply. (Ord. 453,
11-13-2018)
3-103: ABLE GOVERNANCE:
From and after the effective date of this chapter, all matters relating to the
regulation of alcoholic beverages shall be governed by the provisions of the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, title 37A of the Oklahoma Statutes, except as
may be provided for by the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 453, 11-13-2018)
3-104: OCCUPATIONAL TAX:
   A.   Upon application and proof of license by the ABLE Commission, there is
hereby levied upon each person, firm, partnership, or corporation holding a
license for a principal place of business located in the Town an annual
Occupation Tax.
      1.   All license fees will be fifteen dollars ($15.00) annually.
   B.   The tax will be paid no later than one year from date of issuance or
renewal of license by the State of Oklahoma and on or before the same day for
each year thereafter. (Ord. 453, 11-13-2018)
CHAPTER 2
RESERVED
(Ord. 450, 9-10-2018)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
3-301: Definitions
3-302: Hosting, Permitting, Or Allowing A Party, Gathering, Or Event Where
Minors Are Consuming Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
3-303: Reservation And Legal Options
3-304: Local Authority
3-305: Penalty
3-301: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the Town adopts the State's definitions. (Ord.
453, 11-13-2018)
3-302: HOSTING, PERMITTING, OR ALLOWING A PARTY, GATHERING, OR EVENT WHERE
MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is the duty of any person having control of any premises, who
knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a gathering at said premises to take all
reasonable steps to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any minor
at the gathering. Reasonable steps are: controlling access to alcoholic
beverages at the gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages
present at the gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the gathering
by inspecting drivers' licenses or other government issued identification cards
to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the gatherings.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person having control of any premises to
knowingly host, permit, or allow a gathering to take place at said premises
where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage, whenever the person
having control of the premises either knows a minor has consumed an alcoholic
beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor consumed an alcoholic
beverage had the person taken all reasonable steps to prevent the consumption
of an alcoholic beverage by a minor as set forth in subsection A of this
section.
   C.   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of alcoholic
beverages that occurs exclusively between a minor and his or her parent or
legal guardian.
   D.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any family
activity held in the confines of the family home from providing the use of
alcohol to immediate family members within the supervision of parents and
guardians. However, if a minor leaves such a family in public then said
providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a nonfamily
gathering.
   E.   Nothing in this section should be interpreted to prohibit any religious
practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if a minor leaves such a
religious gathering intoxicated and is found to be in public then said
providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same manner as a
nonreligious gathering.
   F.   This section shall not apply to any premises licensed by the State of
Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 371, 10-9-2007)
3-303: RESERVATION AND LEGAL OPTIONS:
Violations of this chapter may be prosecuted by the Town of Shattuck,
criminally, civilly, and/or administratively as provided by this Code. The Town
may seek administrative fees and response costs associated with enforcement of
this chapter through all remedies or procedure provided by statute, ordinance,
or law. This section shall not limit the authority of peace officers or private
citizens to make arrests for any criminal offense arising out of conduct
regulated by this chapter, nor shall they limit the Town's ability to initiate
and prosecute any criminal offense arising out of the same circumstances
necessitating the application of this section. (Ord. 371, 10-9-2007)
3-304: LOCAL AUTHORITY:
This chapter shall not apply where prohibited or preempted by State or Federal
law. (Ord. 371, 10-9-2007)
3-305: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of an offense against the Town and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
for violation of a Class A offense, with a fine of five hundred dollars
($500.00), or by imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60) days, or both such fine
and imprisonment, plus all court costs and statutory penalties, as set forth in
this Code. (Ord. 371, 10-9-2007)
PART 4
ANIMALS
Animal Regulations   1
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-101: Definitions
4-102: Keeping Of Animals In General
4-103: Keeping In Annoying Manner, Nuisance, Procedures
4-104: Permits Required
4-105: Impoundment Of Animals Running At Large
4-106: Town May Enter Into Contract For Operation Of Pound
4-107: Registration And Licensing Of Dogs
4-108: Rabies Vaccination, Records
4-109: Cruelty To Animals, Other Offenses
4-110: Poisoning Animal
4-111: Encouraging Animals To Fight
4-112: Dogs Muzzled And Cats Confined
4-113: Vicious Animal May Be Killed, Court Proceedings
4-114: Animal That Bites To Be Reported And Confined
4-115: Rabid Animals
4-116: Kennels Must Be Licensed
4-117: Buildings For Animals
4-118: Bird Sanctuary, Not To Trap Or Hunt
4-119: Removal Of Dead Animals
4-120: Burying Animals Within City Limits Prohibited
4-121: Penalty
4-101: DEFINITIONS 1 :
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings prescribed in this section except in those cases where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat, hog, pig, dog, cat,
rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal or fowl.
AT LARGE: Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under the
control of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of a person
competent to restrain the animal, whether it be the owner, a member of his
immediate family over twelve (12) years of age or an agent of the owner, by
leash or otherwise, whether on the owner's premises or not.
DOG: Any animal of the canine species of the age of six (6) months or older.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring, or keeping an animal.
The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains,
or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten (10) days or more,
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: An animal which has bitten, or attempted to bite any person
without undue provocation, or which attacks, or barks, or growls at and acts as
if it intended to attack or bite, or bites a person or persons, when not unduly
provoked. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-115.
4-102: KEEPING OF ANIMALS IN GENERAL:
   A.   No owner shall permit any animal owned, harbored, or kept by him to be
at large; and it is unlawful for any animal to be at large at any time within
the town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal
is confined as required by ordinance so as to turn such animal at large, or in
any manner to turn such animal at large.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine, or pasture any animal
on any public school ground or other public property, federal, state, town or
other, on any railroad right of way, or on any property without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
   D.   Requiring all dogs kept within the town limits of the town of Shattuck
to be kept in a secure pen that is so constructed that any dog or animal kept
therein may not escape by jumping over, digging under or breaching or breaking
through any part of the fence or enclosure.
   E.   Defining a "leash" as a chain or strap of sufficient strength to
maintain control of a dog or animal by the owner or some other person with the
owner's permission while in and under control of such person. It does not mean
the staking out of a dog or animal on a chain or strap secured to a post,
latigo or other secure base.
   F.   The owners of any dog or animal shall be personally responsible for any
damage caused by such animal while not kept in a secure enclosure or securely
restrained while being accompanied by any person. (Ord. 328, 4-12-1999)
   G.   Any stray dog shall be taken into custody and kept in the animal pound
for a period of three (3) days within which time the owner may redeem by having
the dog vaccinated and tagged in compliance with this chapter, if not then in
compliance.
An administrative fine, which is not to be confused with the misdemeanor fine
prescribed by section
4-121, "Penalty", of this chapter, shall be assessed in the amount of twenty
dollars ($20.00) in addition to the costs of boarding and maintaining the
animal which shall be five dollars ($5.00) per day which may be amended from
time to time hereafter by resolution of the board to provide for any greater
amount that may be required to reimburse the town of Shattuck for the cost of
shelter, food, care and salary of persons performing such care. The amount of
the administrative fine shall be doubled for each subsequent violation hereof
within any three (3) year period. (Ord. 426, 7-13-2015, eff. 7-13-2015)
   H.   Any vicious dog shall be put to sleep by order of the municipal judge.
(Ord. 328, 4-12-1999)
4-103: KEEPING IN ANNOYING MANNER, NUISANCE, PROCEDURES:
   A.   The keeping or harboring of any animal within the corporate limits of
the town in such a manner that it annoys or bothers a person or persons or
property, or otherwise, or disturbs the peace and quiet of a person is unlawful
and a nuisance. Any person may file a complaint in municipal court alleging
that an animal constitutes a nuisance or is in violation of this chapter.
   B.   The municipal judge is empowered in such cases, in addition to a fine,
to order impoundment or to order a bond to be posted by the owner to cover
damages. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-104: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Any person keeping or desiring to keep any horse, mule, donkey, cow,
calf, hog, sheep, goat, chicken, turkey, or similar animal or fowl must secure
a permit from the town.
      1.   Any person desiring to own or keep any fowl in town must first apply
for and obtain a permit from town clerk. Permit must have signatures of fifty
one percent (51%) of people residing in the area before approval of permit.
      2.   Any person filing an application to keep any fowl in town must
provide proof of an existing enclosure for keeping fowl which must be pre-
approved by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Shattuck, before the permit
may be issued.
      3.   No more than six (6) fowl per yard shall be permitted by the town.
      4.   No roosters shall be permitted by the town.
      5.   No owner shall permit any fowl owned, harbored, or kept by him to be
at large; and it is unlawful for any fowl to be at large at any time within the
town.
   B.   Applicants for a permit for construction of an animal or fowl enclosure
not existing on July 11, 1988, shall file with the town clerk-treasurer a
petition requesting permission for an animal or fowl pen or other enclosure,
the petition to be signed by at least fifty one percent (51%) of those people
residing within said designated area. The clerk-treasurer shall collect a fee
for each animal or fowl enclosure permit, the fee to be established by motion
or resolution of the town board of trustees. The town board of trustees shall
approve or disapprove the issuance of the permit after due consideration at a
regular meeting of the board.
   C.   It is the duty of any police officer to request the exhibition of a
permit from anyone keeping or harboring any of the animals listed in subsection
A of this section and to enforce the provisions of this chapter against any
person found to be in violation of the same.
   D.   Applicants for a permit for an animal or fowl enclosure existing July
11, 1988, shall make application for the permit with the town clerk-treasurer.
The applicants shall not be required to file a petition as set forth above.
However, if a petition be filed with the clerk-treasurer bearing the signatures
of the owners of at least fifty one percent (51%) of those people residing
within said designated area, requesting that the enclosure and the animal or
animals therein be removed then the town board of trustees shall notify the
owner and shall hear the petition at a regular meeting of the board and shall
order or disapprove the removal of the animals after due consideration.
Provided that the owner of any such preexisting animal and enclosure shall at
all times conform with all duly enacted conditions as to the place and manner
of keeping of such animals. (1985 Code; amended 1988; Ord. 346, 5-10-2004; Ord.
461, 9-14-2020)
4-105: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   It is the duty of the animal control officer of the town to take into
their possession any animal that may be in violation of this chapter or running
at large upon the streets, curbing, alleys, public places or trespassing upon
the lands of any person within the corporate limits of the town, and impound
such animal. An animal impounded by virtue of this chapter shall be released to
the owner or person entitled to the possession thereof upon:
      1.   Payment of the cost of feeding such animal and impoundment in such
sums as set by the town board of trustees;
      2.   Proof of vaccination, registration and license; and
      3.   Proof of ownership.
   B.   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of any animal
impounded under this chapter does not procure the release of such animal within
forty eight (48) hours after impoundment, the animal control officer shall
dispose of the animal in accordance with regulations approved by the board of
trustees. (1985 Code; amended 1986)
   C.   (Rep. by Ord. 269, 5-12-1986)
   D.   (Rep. by Ord. 269, 5-12-1986)
   E.   Any person may take up and deliver to a public pound any animal at
large in violation of this chapter. (1985 Code; amended 1986)
4-106: TOWN MAY ENTER INTO CONTRACT FOR OPERATION OF POUND:
The board of trustees is authorized to join into a cooperative effort with the
county or any other community in the county for the purpose of establishing,
operating and maintaining a pound for animals. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-107: REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF DOGS:
   A.   The town board hereby requires every person owning, keeping or
harboring within the town any dog six (6) months of age or older to cause the
dog to be registered with the town clerk-treasurer, by giving the clerk-
treasurer a description of the dog, including its name, breed and sex, and the
owner's or keeper's name and address, and applying for and obtaining a license
for such dog, within thirty (30) days after such dog reaches the age of six (6)
months or after the dog is brought into the town, and on or before March 31 of
each year thereafter.
   B.   The registration and license tax provided in this chapter shall not
apply to a dog only temporarily brought and kept within the town, nor to a dog
brought within the town to participate in a dog show, nor to a "seeing eye" dog
when such dog is actually being used by a blind person to aid him in going from
place to place, nor to dogs being kept in kennels or pet shops for sale.
   C.   Fees for license and registration shall be as set by the town board by
motion or resolution. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-108: RABIES VACCINATION, RECORDS:
   A.   It is the duty of the owner, keeper, or harborer of every dog or cat in
the town, once each calendar year before April 1 thereof and, in the case of a
pup or kitten, before it is six (6) months old, to cause such dog or cat to be
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian, secure a certificate of
vaccination from the veterinarian, and attach to the collar of the dog or cat a
metal tag indicating the vaccination.
   B.   Each veterinarian shall keep a record of dogs vaccinated and make the
record available to the animal control officer. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-109: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, OTHER OFFENSES:
It is unlawful for any person wilfully and maliciously to pour on, or apply to
an animal, any drug or other thing which inflicts pain on the animal; or,
knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner; or knowingly to
neglect an animal belonging to him or in his custody in a cruel or inhumane
manner. It is unlawful to abandon or desert a dog. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-110: POISONING ANIMAL:
It is unlawful for a person wilfully to poison any dog or other animal except a
noxious, nondomesticated animal. It is unlawful to knowingly expose poison so
that the same may be taken by such an animal. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-111: ENCOURAGING ANIMALS TO FIGHT:
It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight between
animals; or, to encourage one animal to attack, pursue, or annoy another
animal, except a noxious nondomesticated animal; or to keep a house, pit, or
other place used for fights between animals. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-112: DOGS MUZZLED AND CATS CONFINED:
   A.   When the health or police officer determines and certifies that a dog,
a cat, or other animals in the town or within five (5) miles of the town is or
was infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the town, the
board of trustees, by resolution, may order all dogs to be muzzled when at
large within the town, and if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during
a period of time to be determined by the board of trustees. Such resolution or
an adequate notice of its passage shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the town and shall go into effect on the date following such
publication unless the resolution prescribes a later time.
   B.   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit an unmuzzled dog or a cat to be at large in violation of such
resolution, or for any such dog or a cat to be at large in violation thereof.
(1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-113: VICIOUS ANIMAL MAY BE KILLED, COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Any person may kill an animal in self-defense or in defense of another
when the animal without undue provocation, bites him or the other, or attacks,
or attempts to bite or attack, him or the other in such manner that an
ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that the person toward whom
the efforts of the animal are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise
physically harmed.
   B.   If any animal within the town shall bite, scratch or otherwise attack
any person, or if any person files a complaint alleging an animal to be
vicious, the municipal court shall have the authority to order and hold a
hearing. The judge may find an animal to be vicious if, among other factors,
the person so attacked was not at the time trespassing upon the property of the
owner or person having control of such animal, or if it cannot be proved beyond
a reasonable doubt that the person so attacked was provoking or teasing the
animal. If the judge shall determine at such hearing that such animal is
vicious or dangerous to persons or other animals, the court may order that such
animal be kept muzzled, or that such animal be kept within a sufficient
enclosure, or that such animal be delivered to the animal control officer and
by him destroyed.
   C.   It is the duty of the police chief, upon being notified that a person
alleges an animal is vicious and has filed a verified complaint, to seize and
impound the animal. If the judge finds the animal is not vicious, he shall
order the animal returned to the owner. If the judge finds the animal is
vicious, he shall order the animal to be destroyed. However, if the owner of
such animal shall post a two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) bond, the court
shall return the animal to the owner on condition the owner shall abate and
prevent the viciousness. No animal shall be returned unless same is vaccinated,
registered, and licensed as required.
   D.   It is unlawful to keep, harbor, possess or own a vicious dog. (1985
Code; amended 1988)
4-114: ANIMAL THAT BITES TO BE REPORTED AND CONFINED:
Any owner or custodian of an animal having any reason to believe that such
animal has bitten any person in the town shall immediately report such incident
to the chief of police of the town. Such animal shall immediately be confined
at the veterinary clinic chosen by the owner or custodian, under observation of
a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine, for a period of ten (10) days to
determine if such animal be rabid. The cost of confinement shall be borne by
the owner or keeper of the animal. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-115: RABID ANIMALS:
Any animal suspected of being rabid or of having been bitten by a rabid animal
may be confined by order of the health officer or police or pound officer to
determine whether the animal is rabid. If a person has been bitten or if there
is good reason to believe that a person has been otherwise infected by such
animal, the health officer or pound officer may have the animal put to death in
a humane manner and have it examined by medical authority to determine whether
it has rabies. All expenses incurred in confining the animal as provided in
this section shall be paid by the owner or keeper of the animal. (1985 Code;
amended 1988)
4-116: KENNELS MUST BE LICENSED:
   A.   Any person owning or operating a kennel must first secure a license
from the town clerk-treasurer and pay a sum as set by the town board per year
for the license. The location of the kennel shall be subject to any planning or
zoning guidelines or decisions of the town board of trustees. In any case, no
kennel may be kept in any residential area of the town.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, a "kennel" is defined as keeping of
more than three (3) dogs on the same premises over six (6) months of age. (1985
Code; amended 1988)
4-117: BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS:
   A.   Every building wherein any animal is kept within the town shall be
constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept clean and
sanitary at all times and free from objectionable odors.
   B.   Every building, if located within two hundred feet (200') of any
tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food
store, building used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight and
flytight receptacle for manure, such size as to hold all accumulations in such
manner as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept
covered at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure
or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in
such receptacle.
   C.   No building where animals are kept shall be maintained closer than
forty feet (40') to any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant,
boarding house, retail food store, building used for educational, religious or
hospital purposes or residence other than that occupied by the owner or
occupant of the premises upon which such animal is kept.
   D.   The health or pound officer, upon complaint of any person, shall
inspect any structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his
own initiative. He may issue any such reasonable order as he may deem necessary
to the owner of such animal to cause such animal to be kept as provided in this
chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a nuisance. He may make a
complaint before the municipal judge against any person for violation of any
provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order; but this shall not
abridge the right of others to make such complaint. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-118: BIRD SANCTUARY, NOT TO TRAP OR HUNT:
   A.   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the town and
the area known as the town cemetery are hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
   B.   It is unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot, or molest in
any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob nests of birds or wild fowl.
However, if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such
numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to
health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the town,
then the health authorities shall meet with representatives of the Audubon
Society, Bird Club, Garden Club, or Humane Society, or as many of the clubs as
are found to exist in the town, after having given at least three (3) days'
actual notice of the time and place of the meeting to the representatives of
the clubs. If as a result of the meeting no satisfactory alternative is found
to abate such nuisance, then the birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in
such manner as is deemed advisable by the health authorities under the
supervision of the chief of police of the town. (1985 Code; amended 1988)
4-119: REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in the town, shall
within twenty four (24) hours after the death of such animal, remove its
carcass, and failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 426, 7-13-
2015, eff. 7-13-2015)
4-120: BURYING ANIMALS WITHIN CITY LIMITS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to bury the body of any dead horse, mule, cow,
ox, goat, hog or sheep within the city limits. (Ord. 426, 7-13-2015, eff. 7-13-
2015)
4-121: PENALTY:
Violations of this part pertaining to animal regulations shall be punishable
upon a graduated basis according to the number of previous offenses as follows:
 
First offense                    $ 57.00
Second offense                   82.00
Third offense                    107.00
Fourth offense                   132.00
Fifth offense                    157.00
Sixth offense                    182.00
Seventh and subsequent offenses  200.00
 
The provisions of this section are not to be confused with provisions of
subsection 4-102G of this chapter, which provided for an administrative fine in
lieu of the criminal misdemeanor fine provided by this section. The fine
provided by this section shall be assessed in those cases wherein the town of
Shattuck elects to proceed under this section. (Ord. 344, 3-10-2003; amd. Ord.
426, 7-13-2015, eff. 7-13-2015)
PART 5
BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CODES
General Provisions   1
Building And Related Codes, Appeal   2
Electrical Code   3
Property Maintenance Code   4
Mechanical Code   5
Fuel Gas Code   6
Plumbing Code   7
Fire Code   8
Swimming Pool And Spa Code   9
Fair Housing   10
Contractors   11
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-101: Definitions
5-102: Land Use Permit Required, Fee
5-103: Manufacture Or Installation Of Liquefied Petroleum Gas Systems,
Containers
5-104: Installation Of Gas Appliances, Piping
5-105: Penalty
5-101: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
COMMERCIAL: Any building which is used for commercial activity or furtherance
of commercial activity, commonly associated with public convenience or use by a
designated group of patrons where such use is directly or indirectly used with
promotion of a commercial function.
LIVING UNIT: Shall include a single-family dwelling. Additionally, a living
unit shall be each distinctive living unit within a multi-family unit building.
MULTI-FAMILY UNIT BUILDING: A building which contains distinguishable living
units, each set apart from the other although contained within the same
building structure. Such application shall consider a duplex a multi-family
unit, and the fee for each mechanical permit, each electrical permit, and each
plumbing permit shall be assessable for each living unit. Similarly, buildings
such as quadplexes or apartments, shall be assessed a fee for each living unit
within the building.
RESIDENTIAL: A building solely used for private and personal use generally
considered "living quarters" within the total encompassing building area. (Ord.
433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-102: LAND USE PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE:
   A.   No building or other structure shall be built, enlarged, altered or
moved without a land use permit issued by the town clerk as follows:
      1.   Whenever changes to a building or other structure alter the outside
appearance;
      2.   Whenever changes will amount to more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) in cost; or
      3.   Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the
town to a location within the town or from one location in the town to another
location within the town.
   B.   A person desiring a land use permit shall submit an application
therefor to the town clerk. The applicant shall submit with the application
such reasonable information as the clerk may require to enable him to determine
whether granting the permit would be in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances of the town.
   C.   If the application is in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances and laws, the clerk shall issue the permit upon the payment by the
applicant of a town land use permit fee which may be set by motion or
resolution of the town board of trustees or the state. A current copy of the
fee schedule shall be kept in the office of the town clerk. (Ord. 433, 5-9-
2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-103: MANUFACTURE OR INSTALLATION OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS SYSTEMS,
CONTAINERS:
It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, fabricate, assemble, install or
repair any system, container, apparatus or appliance to be used for the
transportation, storage, dispensing or utilization of liquefied petroleum gas,
or to transport, handle or store such gas, unless such person has complied with
and complies with all provisions of state and federal laws, rules and
regulations and all town ordinances relating thereto, and has any license or
permit which may be required by state law. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-104: INSTALLATION OF GAS APPLIANCES, PIPING:
The installation of all gas appliances and gas piping shall comply with all
applicable state standards. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-105: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING AND RELATED CODES, APPEAL
SECTION:
5-201: Means Of Appeal
5-202: Building Code Adopted
5-203: Amendments To Building Code
5-204: Residential Code Adopted
5-205: Amendments To Residential Code
5-206: Existing Building Code Adopted
5-207: Amendments To Existing Building Code
5-201: MEANS OF APPEAL:
   A.   In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or
determinations made by a code official or zoning committee, relative to the
application and interpretation of any code contained within this title, the
town board shall act as a board of appeals. The board shall hear all appeals
from decisions of the code official and shall interpret provisions whenever a
dispute arises as to the meaning or intent of any provision.
   B.   Any person(s) aggrieved by a decision of the code official or zoning
committee may perfect an appeal to the town board by filing a written notice of
appeal with the town clerk and the code official or zoning committee, within
ten (10) calendar days from the date of the action by the code official or
zoning committee. Such notice shall specify the grounds for the appeal. A
hearing on the appeal shall be commenced by the board no later than thirty (30)
calendar days from the date the notice of appeal was filed with the town clerk
and the appellant shall be provided with reasonable advance notice of the date,
time and place of the hearing. Once a written notice of appeal has been filed
with the board, any person acting contrary to the interpretation or order of
the code official may proceed with the disputed work at their own risk, pending
a final determination by the board.
   C.   A notice of appeal shall:
      1.   Set forth in detail the precise decision or requirement being
appealed;
      2.   State precisely why the decision or requirement is in error;
      3.   Designate the section(s) of the code, other ordinances or statute(s)
which support the appellant's position; and
      4.   Be accompanied by an appeal fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00).
   D.   The town board shall have authority to affirm, modify, reverse, or
remand the action of the code official or zoning committee. Where practical
difficulties or an unnecessary hardship will result from the strict application
of a code, the board shall have the power, in a specific case, to grant a
variance from any provision, in accordance with general purpose and intent of
the code, so that the public health, safety, convenience, prosperity, and
general welfare may be secured and substantial justice done. Any such variance
shall not be construed as an amendment or a general waiver of any provision of
a code.
   E.   The nature of the hearing before the town board shall be informal and
strict adherence to rules of evidence governing the courts shall not be
required. At the conclusion of a hearing on an appeal, the town board shall
affirm, modify, reverse or remand the decision of the code official by a
concurring vote of at least three (3) members. Within five (5) days of its
decision, the town clerk shall prepare and sign a written order memorializing
the board's decision and mail it to the appellant's last known address, as
shown by the certificate of mailing attached to the order.
   F.   A decision of the board on a technical dispute shall be res judicata
and the town board may, in its discretion, refuse to hear appeals involving
interpretation of codes, statutes or ordinance provisions upon which a decision
by the board has been previously made.
   G.   Any rulings, requirements, decisions or interpretations of the town
board shall be final and binding upon all parties, provided that any right of
appeal to the courts shall not be abrogated.
   H.   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this section,
the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time
begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period computed shall
be included, unless it is a legal holiday as recognized by the town of
Shattuck, or any other day when the office of the town clerk does not remain
open for public business until its regularly scheduled closing time, in which
event the period shall run until the end of the next day which is not a legal
holiday or a day when the office of the town clerk does not remain open for
public business until its regularly scheduled closing time. Unless the context
of a period of time clearly indicates otherwise, a period of time prescribed in
days shall be calendar days, including holidays and any other day when the
office of the town clerk is not open for public business until its regularly
scheduled closing time. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-202: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The 2015 edition of the international building code, as published by the
International Code Council is adopted by the town for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the design, construction, quality of
materials, alteration, repair, demolition, equipment, use, occupancy and
location of buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of the international building
code, as well as any appendices referenced, appendices C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J
and K, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this code, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
5-203 of this chapter. At least one copy of the code is to be kept on file in
the office of the town clerk or his/her designee. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-
9-2016)
5-203: AMENDMENTS TO BUILDING CODE:
The following provisions of the international building code, 2015 edition
(IBC), are hereby added, deleted or amended to read as follows:
IBC Chapter 1 Scope And Administration
101.1 Title - Shattuck amendatory. These provisions shall be known and may be
cited as the "Building Code Of The Town Of Shattuck" or as the "Shattuck
Building Code."
113 Through 113.3 Board Of Appeals - Shattuck deleted. Sections 113 through
113.3 of this code are intentionally deleted from the international building
code, 2015 edition. Appeals from a decision of the code official shall be
governed by section
5-201 of the Shattuck town code.
(Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-204: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
The 2009 edition of the international residential code, as published by the
International Code Council, is adopted by the town for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the design, construction, quality of
materials, alteration, repair, demolition, equipment, use, occupancy and
location of one- and two-family dwellings as therein provided. Each and all of
the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms, as well as any appendices
referenced, appendices A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S,
T and U, adopted, incorporated and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this code, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
5-205 of this chapter. At least one copy of the code is to be kept on file in
the office of the town clerk or his/her designee. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-
9-2016)
5-205: AMENDMENTS TO RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The following provisions of the international residential code for one- and
two-family dwellings, 2009 edition (IRC), are hereby added, deleted or amended
to read as follows:
IRC Chapter 1 Scope And Administration
R101.1 Title - Amendatory. These provisions shall be known and may be cited as
the "Residential Code For One- And Two- Family Dwellings Of The Town Of
Shattuck" or as the "Shattuck Residential Building Code."
(Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-206: EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The 2015 edition of the international existing building code, as published by
the International Code Council, is adopted by the town for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the design, construction, quality of
materials, repair, alteration, change of use or occupancy, addition or
relocation of existing buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and
all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of the international
existing building code, as well as any appendices referenced, appendices B and
C, resource A, are made a part hereof as if fully set out in this code, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
5-207 of this chapter. At least one copy of the code is to be kept on file in
the office of the town clerk or his/her designee. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-
9-2016)
5-207: AMENDMENTS TO EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
The following provisions of the international existing building code, 2015
edition (EIBC) are added, deleted or amended to read as follows:
IEBC Chapter 1 Scope And Administration
101.1 Title - Shattuck amendatory. These provisions shall be known and may be
cited as the "Existing Building Code Of The Town Of Shattuck" or as the
"Shattuck Existing Building Code."
112 Through 112.3 Board Of Appeals - Shattuck deleted. Sections 112 through
112.3 of this code are intentionally deleted from the international existing
building code, 2015 edition. Appeals from a decision of the code official shall
be governed by section
5-201  of the Shattuck town code.
(Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-301: Electrical Code Adopted
5-302: Amendments To Electrical Code
5-303: Electrical License Required, Fee
5-301: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The 2014 edition of the national electrical code, as published by the National
Fire Protection Association, is adopted by the town for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of electrical systems, fixtures
and appliances as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of the national electrical code as well as any
appendices referenced, annexes A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I and J, adopted,
incorporated and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this code, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
5-302 of this chapter. At least one copy of the code is to be kept on file in
the office of the town clerk or his/her designee. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-
9-2016)
5-302: AMENDMENTS TO ELECTRICAL CODE:
Any provisions of the national electrical code (NEC), 2014 edition (NFPA 70-
2014), shall be entered and clarified under this section. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016,
eff. 5-9-2016)
5-303: ELECTRICAL LICENSE REQUIRED, FEE:
Any person who shall engage in the business of performing electrical services
or acting as electrician shall, before engaging such work, be required to have
a current state electrician license, and to register with the town prior to
doing any work within the town limits. A fee in such amount as established by
resolution of the town board shall be paid to the town for such registration.
Such registration shall be for a period running from July 1 through June 30, or
any part thereof. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
CHAPTER 4
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
5-401: Property Maintenance Code Adopted
5-402: Enforcement
5-401: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
The international property maintenance code, 2015 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, is adopted by the town for the purpose of
establishing minimum standards for existing residential and nonresidential
structures or premises that protect the health, safety and welfare of occupants
and the public. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and
terms of the international property maintenance code, as well as any appendices
referenced, are hereby referred to, appendix A, is adopted and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this code. At least one copy of the code is to
be kept on file in the office of the town clerk or his/her designee. (Ord. 433,
5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-402: ENFORCEMENT:
The code enforcement division of the town of Shattuck shall be responsible for
the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
CHAPTER 5
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-501: Mechanical Code Adopted
5-502: Amendments To Mechanical Code
5-503: Mechanical License Required, Fee
5-501: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The 2015 edition of the international mechanical code, as published by the
International Code Council, is adopted by the town for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems as therein
provided. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of
the international mechanical code, as well as any appendices referenced,
appendix A, is adopted, incorporated and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this code, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if
any, prescribed in section
5-502 of this chapter. At least one copy of the code is to be kept on file in
the office of the town clerk or his/her designee. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-
9-2016)
5-502: AMENDMENTS TO MECHANICAL CODE:
 IMC Chapter 1 Scope And Administration
101.1 Title - Shattuck amendatory. These provisions shall be known and may be
cited as the "Mechanical Code Of The Town Of Shattuck" or as the "Shattuck
Mechanical Code."
109 Through 109.7 Means Of Appeal - Shattuck deleted. Sections 109 through
109.7 of this code are intentionally deleted from the international mechanical
code, 2015 edition. Appeals from a decision of the code official shall be
governed by section
5-201 of the Shattuck town code.
(Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-503: MECHANICAL LICENSE REQUIRED, FEE:
Any person who shall engage in the business of performing mechanical services
shall, before engaging such work, be required to have a current state
mechanical license, and to register with the town prior to doing any work
within the town limits. A fee in such amount as established by resolution of
the town board shall be paid to the town for such registration. Such
registration shall be for a period running from July 1 through June 30, or any
part thereof. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
CHAPTER 6
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
5-601: Fuel Gas Code Adopted
5-602: Amendments To Fuel Gas Code
5-601: FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
The 2015 edition of the international fuel gas code, as published by the
International Code Council, is adopted by the town for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of fuel gas piping systems,
fixtures and appliances as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of the international fuel gas code as well as
any appendices referenced, appendices A, B, C, and D, are adopted, incorporated
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this code. At least one copy of
the code is to be kept on file in the office of the town clerk or his/her
designee. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-602: AMENDMENTS TO FUEL GAS CODE:
 IFGC Chapter 1 Scope And Administration
101.1 Title - Shattuck amendatory. These provisions shall be known and may be
cited as the "Fuel Gas Code Of The Town Of Shattuck" or as the "Shattuck Fuel
Gas Code."
109 Through 109.7 Means Of Appeal - Shattuck deleted. Sections 109 through
109.7 of this code are intentionally deleted from the international fuel gas
code, 2015 edition. Appeals from a decision of the code official shall be
governed by section
5-201 of the Shattuck town code.
(Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
CHAPTER 7
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
5-701: Plumbing Code Adopted
5-702: Amendments To Plumbing Code
5-701: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
The 2015 edition of the international plumbing code, as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted by the town for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems as therein
provided. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of
the international plumbing code, is hereby adopted, incorporated and made a
part hereof, including appendices A, B, C, D, and E, as if fully set out in
this code, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
5-702 of this chapter. At least one copy of the code is to be kept on file in
the office of the town clerk or his/her designee. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-
9-2016)
5-702: AMENDMENTS TO PLUMBING CODE:
 IPC Chapter 1 Scope And Administration
101.1 Title - Shattuck amendatory. These provisions shall be known and may be
cited as the "Plumbing Code Of The Town Of Shattuck" or as the "Shattuck
Plumbing Code."
109 Through 109.7 Means Of Appeal - Shattuck deleted. Sections 109 through
109.7 of this code are intentionally deleted from the international plumbing
code, 2015 edition. Appeals from a decision of the code official shall be
governed by section
5-201 of the Shattuck town code.
(Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
CHAPTER 8
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
5-801: Fire Code Adopted
5-802: Amendments To Fire Code
5-801: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
The ICC international fire code, 2015 edition (IFC), as published by the
International Code Council, Inc. (ICC), including appendices B, C, D, E, F, G,
H, I, J, K, L and M, is hereby adopted by the town of Shattuck, Oklahoma, for
the purpose of safeguarding life and property from fire and explosion hazards
by regulating the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials
and devices and conditions related to the occupancy of buildings and premises
in the town of Shattuck, as herein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, terms and conditions of the ICC international fire code,
2015 edition, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part of the Shattuck
town code, as if fully set out in this chapter, with its amendments, as
prescribed in section
5-802 of this chapter and, as used in this chapter, may be referred to as the
"code". At least one copy of the code is to be kept on file in the office of
the town clerk or his/her designee. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-802: AMENDMENTS TO FIRE CODE:
 101.1 Title - Amendatory. These provisions shall be known and may be cited as
the "Fire Code Of The Town Of Shattuck" or as the "Shattuck Fire Code."
108 through 108.3 Board Of Appeals - Deleted. Sections 108 through 108.3 of
this code are intentionally deleted from the international fire code, 2015
edition. Appeals from a decision of the code official shall be governed by
5-201 of the Shattuck town code.
(Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
CHAPTER 9
SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE
SECTION:
5-901: Swimming Pool And Spa Code Adopted
5-902: Amendments To Swimming Pool And Spa Code
5-901: SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE ADOPTED:
The 2012 edition of the international swimming pool and spa code, as published
by the International Code Council, regulating and governing the design,
construction, alteration, movement, renovation, replacement, repair and
maintenance of swimming pools, spas, hot tubs, aquatic facilities and related
equipment in the town of Shattuck, be and is hereby adopted as the town of
Shattuck pool and spa code or Shattuck pool and spa code, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
5-902 of this chapter. (Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-902: AMENDMENTS TO SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
 ISPSC Chapter 1 - Scope And Administration
101.1 Title - Shattuck amendatory. These provisions shall be known and may be
cited as the "Swimming Pool And Spa Code Of The Town Of Shattuck" or as the
"Shattuck Swimming Pool And Spa Code."
108 Through 108.7 Means Of Appeal - Shattuck deleted. Sections 108 through
108.7 of this code are intentionally deleted from the international swimming
pool and spa code, 2012 edition. Appeals from a decision of the code official
shall be governed by section
5-201 of the Shattuck town code.
(Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
CHAPTER 10
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-1001: Policy
5-1002: Definitions
5-1003: Unlawful Practice
5-1004: Discrimination In The Sale Or Rental Of Housing
5-1005: Discrimination In The Financing Of Housing
5-1006: Discrimination In The Provision Of Brokerage Services
5-1007: Exemption
5-1008: Administration
5-1009: Education And Conciliation
5-1010: Enforcement
5-1011: Investigation; Subpoena; Giving Of Evidence
5-1012: Enforcement By Private Persons
5-1013: Interference, Coercion, Or Intimidation
5-1014: Separability Of Provision
5-1015: Prevention Of Intimidation In Fair Housing Cases
5-1001: POLICY:
It is the policy of the town of Shattuck to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout the town. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd.
Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1002: DEFINITIONS:
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under section
5-1004,
5-1005, or
5-1006 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receiver, and fiduciaries.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (Ord. 332, 4-
10-2000; amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1003: UNLAWFUL PRACTICE:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section and section
5-1007 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   A.   All dwellings except as exempted by subsection B of this section.
   B.   Nothing in section
5-1004 of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner:
Provided that such private individual owner does not own more than three (3)
such single-family houses at any one time;
Provided further, that in the case of the sale of any such single-family house
by a private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such
sale or who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale,
the exemption granted by this subsection B shall apply only with respect to one
such sale within any twenty four (24) month period;
Provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such single-family houses at
any one time;
Provided further, that the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall
be excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or
rented:
         a.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesman, or person, and
         b.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection 5-1004C of this
chapter, but nothing in the proviso shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow
agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional assistance as
necessary to perfect or transfer the title, or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   C.   For the purpose of subsection B of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein, or
      2.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein, or
      3.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd. Ord.
433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1004: DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
As made applicable by section
5-1003 of this chapter and except as exempt by subsection 5-1003B and section
5-1007 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, or national
origin.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, or
national origin.
   C.   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
or national origin. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-
2016)
5-1005: DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING:
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing or the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, or national origin of such
person or of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or
other financial assistance or the purpose of such loan or other financial
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given:
Provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exception contained in subsection 5-1003B of this chapter.
(Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1006: DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions
of such access, membership, or participation, on account of race, color,
religion, or national origin. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016,
eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1007: EXEMPTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association,
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association,
or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color, or national origin. Nor shall
anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff.
5-9-2016)
5-1008: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The authority and responsibility for administering this act shall be in
the chief executive officer of the town.
   B.   The chief executive officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties, and powers to employees of the town or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties, and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The
chief executive officer shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his hearing examiners or to other officers in the town, to boards
of officers or to himself, as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   C.   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the chief executive officer to further such purposes. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000;
amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1009: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the chief executive officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor
with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of
enforcement. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1010: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the chief executive officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the chief executive officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
chief executive officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a
complaint, or within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any period of
reference under subsection C of this section, the chief executive officer shall
investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved
whether he intends to resolve it. If the chief executive officer decides to
resolve the complaints, he shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the
alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation, and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned. Any employee of the chief executive officer who shall make public
any information in violation of this provision thereof shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than one year.
   B.   A complaint under subsection A of this section shall be filed within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may
be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer
to the complaint against him and with the leave of the chief executive officer,
which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may
amend his answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   If within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the chief
executive officer, the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty
(30) days thereafter, file a complaint with the secretary of the department of
housing and urban development. The chief executive officer will assist in this
filing.
   D.   If the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may,
within thirty (30) days hereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate
court, against the respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights
granted or protected by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the
subject of the complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing
practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent
from engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   E.   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
   F.   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
chief executive officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-
2016)
5-1011: INVESTIGATION; SUBPOENA; GIVING OF EVIDENCE:
   A.   In conducting an investigation the chief executive officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and
copy such materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such
person as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation:
Provided, however that the chief executive officer first complies with the
provisions of the fourth amendment relating to unreasonable searches and
seizures. The chief executive officer may issue subpoenas to compel his access
to or the production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and
may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to
the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were
issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court
for the district in which the investigation is taking place. The chief
executive officer may administer oaths.
   B.   Upon written application to the chief executive officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the chief executive officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the chief executive officer himself.
Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall state that they issued at
his request.
   C.   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the chief executive officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him.
   D.   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the chief executive officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The chief executive officer shall grant the petition if he finds that
the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or
place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any
matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous, or for other good reason.
   E.   In the case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the chief
executive officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts
business.
   F.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
chief executive officer shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Any person who, with
intent thereby to mislead the chief executive officer, shall make or cause to
be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record, or
other document submitted to the chief executive officer pursuant to his
subpoena or other order, or shall wilfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true, and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records, or
other documents, or shall wilfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
   G.   The town attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the chief
executive officer participates as a part or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1012: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   The rights granted by sections
5-1003 through
5-1006 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local
courts of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred:
Provided however, that the court shall continue such civil case brought
pursuant to this section or subsection 5-1010D of this chapter from time to
time before bringing it to trial if the court believes that the conciliation
efforts of the chief executive officer are likely to result in satisfactory
settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in the
complaint made to the chief executive officer and which practice forms the
basis for the action in court;
And provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated prior
to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority of this chapter,
and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrance, or tenant without actual
notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil action under the
provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   B.   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney
fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff;
Provided, that the said plaintiff in the opinion of the court is not
financially able to assume said attorney fees. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd. Ord.
433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1013: INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by section
5-1003,
5-1004,
5-1005, or
5-1006 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1014: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISION:
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the
application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to
other circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 332, 4-10-2000; amd.
Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
5-1015: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force
wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of his race, color, religion or national origin and
because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service,
organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings; or
   B.   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in subsection A of this section; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   C.   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion or
national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations or
facilities described in subsection A of this section, or participating lawfully
in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so
participate shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall
be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life. (Ord. 332, 4-10-
2000; amd. Ord. 433, 5-9-2016, eff. 5-9-2016)
CHAPTER 11
CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
5-1101: Certificates Of General Liability And Workers' Compensation Required
5-1102: Exemptions
5-1103: Registration Of Contractors
5-1101: CERTIFICATES OF GENERAL LIABILITY AND WORKERS' COMPENSATION REQUIRED:
Before the issuance of a residential land use permit may be issued to a
contractor, the contractor shall provide to the town a certificate of insurance
from the appropriate insurer that the contractor has general liability
insurance in an amount required by other construction trade contractors
licensed by the construction industries board currently fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) and that the contractor has workers' compensation insurance or a
workers' compensation exemption verification document. A "residential land use
permit" shall be defined for this section as any land use permit for a single-
family or a duplex residential structure and shall include construction of a
new structure, remodel of an existing structure, and the assertion to an
existing structure. Not included under the definition of a residential land use
permit are single-family or a duplex carport, patio cover, storage building,
accessory building, pool or fence. (Ord. 388, 11-9-2009, eff. 11-9-2009; amd.
Ord. 400, 12-15-2011)
5-1102: EXEMPTIONS:
This provision shall not apply to a person or persons performing the
construction of remodeling to his, her, or their own existing single-family or
duplex structure on their own property, unless the modifications are being
performed by and the permit acquired by a general contractor or subcontractor,
in which case the general contractor or subcontractor shall meet the
requirements set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 388, 11-9-2009, eff. 11-9-2009)
5-1103: REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS:
In order to effectively monitor insurance verifications of contractors, each
contractor that builds, constructs, erects or repairs buildings in the town of
Shattuck, shall register with the town as such and pay a registration fee as
established by the board of trustees before applying for a land use permit.
(Ord. 388, 11-9-2009, eff. 11-9-2009; amd. Ord. 400, 12-15-2011)
PART 6
COURT
Municipal Court   1
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
6-101: Organization Of Municipal Court
6-102: Definitions
6-103: Jurisdiction Of Court
6-104: Judge; Qualifications
6-105: Term Of Judge
6-106: Alternate Judge
6-107: Acting Judge
6-108: Appointment Of Judge And Alternate Judge
6-109: Salary And Payments To Judges
6-110: Removal Of Judge
6-111: Vacancy In Office Of Judge
6-112: Disqualification Of Judge
6-113: Court Marshal, Chief Of Police
6-114: Clerk Of The Court; Duties
6-115: Prosecuting Attorney; Duties; Conflict Of Interest
6-116: Bond Of Clerk
6-117: Rules Of Court
6-118: Enforcement Of Rules
6-119: Written Complaints To Prosecute Ordinance Violations
6-120: Traffic Ordinance Violations; Procedures For Issuing Citation; Custody,
Arrest
6-121: Creation Of Traffic Violations Bureau
6-122: Summons For Arrest
6-123: Form Of Arrest Warrant
6-124: Procedures For Bail Or Bond
6-125: Traffic Bail Bond Procedures
6-126: Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant
6-127: Trials And Judgments
6-128: Witness Fees
6-129: Sentencing
6-130: Imprisonment, Work By Prisoners
6-131: Fines And Costs
6-132: Deduction From Fines For Training Fund
6-101: ORGANIZATION OF MUNICIPAL COURT 1 :
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal
criminal court of the town of Shattuck, as put into operation by resolution,
duly passed and filed in accordance with law, as authorized by 11 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 27-101 and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between any
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any ordinance of this town,
the provisions of this chapter shall control. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS §§ 27-101–27-131.
6-102: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
CLERK: The clerk of this municipality, including any deputy or member of the
office staff of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
COURT: The municipal court of the town of Shattuck.
GOVERNING BODY: The town board of trustees of the town of Shattuck.
JUDGE: The judge of the municipal court, including any acting judge or
alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state and this
chapter.
MUNICIPALITY OR THIS MUNICIPALITY: The town of Shattuck, Oklahoma.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The district court judicial district of the state of
Oklahoma wherein the government of this municipality is situated. (1985 Code)
6-103: JURISDICTION OF COURT:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance
with applicable law. (1985 Code)
6-104: JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS:
There shall be one judge of the court. A judge may be an attorney licensed to
practice law in Oklahoma or a resident of this municipality, of the age of
twenty five (25) years or older, possessed of good moral character. A judge who
is a licensed attorney may engage in the practice of law in other courts, but
he shall not accept employment inconsistent with his duties as judge, or
arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases within the
jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might become the subject of
proceedings therein. He must be a resident of this county or an adjacent county
or maintain a law office therein. He may serve as judge of other municipal
courts, if such service may be accomplished consistently with his duties as
judge of this court, with the consent of the governing body. (1985 Code)
6-105: TERM OF JUDGE:
The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years expiring each odd
numbered year on July 1. Each judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause,
shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified. (1985 Code)
6-106: ALTERNATE JUDGE:
   A.   There shall be appointed for each judge of the court an alternate judge
possessed of the same qualifications required of the judge in this chapter. His
appointment shall be for the same term and made in the same manner as the
judge. He shall sit as acting judge of the court in any case if the judge is:
      1.   Absent from the court;
      2.   Unable to act as judge; or
      3.   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case. (1985 Code)
6-107: ACTING JUDGE:
If at any time there is no judge or alternate judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as judge, the mayor shall appoint some person,
possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the judge, who shall
preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition of pending matters
until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be available. (1985 Code)
6-108: APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE AND ALTERNATE JUDGE:
Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of
the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the
governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to the
day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon at
the next regularly scheduled meeting. The governing body may decide upon the
proposed appointment by a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure
of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a
later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body unless the mayor, in
writing, withdraws the proposed appointment. (1985 Code)
6-109: SALARY AND PAYMENTS TO JUDGES:
   A.   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the governing body by motion or resolution, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of this municipality.
   B.   An alternate judge or an acting judge shall be paid an amount as set by
motion or resolution of the governing body, however payments to an acting or
alternate judge shall not exceed the salary set for a judge in whose stead he
sits. (1985 Code)
6-110: REMOVAL OF JUDGE:
   A.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing body
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
      1.   The mayor; or
      2.   Twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of this municipality.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
   B.   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the judge shall be entitled to:
      1.   Representation by counsel;
      2.   To present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against him;
and
      3.   Have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
   C.   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the Oklahoma
administrative procedures act 1  governing individual proceedings shall govern
removal proceedings hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon
individual votes, by majority of all members of the governing body, in favor of
such removal. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 75 OS 309 – 317, as amended.
6-111: VACANCY IN OFFICE OF JUDGE:
   A.   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      1.   Dies;
      2.   Resigns;
      3.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      4.   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
   B.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made. (1985 Code)
6-112: DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE:
In prosecutions before the court no change of venue shall be allowed; but the
judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge appointed as provided in this
chapter. (1985 Code)
6-113: COURT MARSHAL, CHIEF OF POLICE:
All writs or process of the court shall be directed, in his official title, to
the chief of police of this municipality, who shall be the principal officer of
the court. (1985 Code)
6-114: CLERK OF THE COURT; DUTIES:
The clerk, or a deputy designated by him, shall be the clerk of the court. He
shall assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers. He shall administer oaths required
in proceedings before the court. He shall enter all pleadings, processes, and
proceedings in the dockets of the court. He shall perform such other clerical
duties relating to the proceedings of the court as the judge shall direct. He
shall receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines, deposits, and sums of money
payable to the court. He shall pay to the treasurer of this municipality all
money so received by him, except such special deposits or fees as shall be
received to be disbursed by him for special purposes. All money paid to the
treasurer shall be placed in the general fund of the municipality, or in such
other funds as the governing body may direct, and it shall be used in the
operation of the municipal government in accordance with budgetary arrangements
governing the fund in which it is placed. (1985 Code)
6-115: PROSECUTING ATTORNEY; DUTIES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The attorney for this municipality, or his duly designated assistant, shall be
the prosecuting officer of the court. He shall also prosecute all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the town. He shall be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal, proceedings in error and review
from this court to any other court of the state, and to represent this
municipality in all proceedings arising out of matters in this court. (1985
Code)
6-116: BOND OF CLERK:
The court clerk of the court shall give bond, in the form provided by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section 27-111. When executed, the bond shall be submitted to
the governing body for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the
clerk of this municipality and retained in the municipal archives. (1985 Code)
6-117: RULES OF COURT:
The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of this municipality for the proper conduct of the business of
the court. (1985 Code)
6-118: ENFORCEMENT OF RULES:
Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the judge or by the court
may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt committed
as to him while holding court, or committed against process issued by him in
the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts of this state.
(1985 Code)
6-119: WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS:
All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of this municipality shall be
styled "the town of Shattuck vs. (naming defendant or defendants)". Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the town
attorney. (1985 Code)
6-120: TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES FOR ISSUING CITATION; CUSTODY,
ARREST:
   A.   If a police officer observes facts which he believes constitute a
violation of the traffic ordinances of this municipality, committed by a
resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he may take his name,
address, operator's license number, and registered license number of the motor
vehicle involved and any other pertinent and necessary information and may
issue him in writing in form prescribed by the mayor or his duly designated
delegate, a traffic citation embracing the above information, and also stating
the traffic violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him to answer to
the charge against him at a time, not later than the date specified in the
citation. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged
violator, endorsed on the citation to answer as specified, may then release the
person from custody. If the person to whom a citation is issued fails to answer
as prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and the case shall be
prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   B.   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident or
resident of this municipality, the police officer may:
      1.   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set out
in subsection A of this section pending his appearance on a day certain in
court, as specified in the citation;
      2.   Take the person in custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      3.   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the judge for further proceedings
according to law or shall have bail fixed for his release in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed, and upon giving
his written promise to appear upon a day certain, as provided in subsection A
of this section, the person shall be released from custody.
   C.   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in subsection
A or B of this section, with such variation as the circumstances require; the
operator of this vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him personally under subsection A or B of
this section. (1985 Code)
6-121: CREATION OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU:
   A.   There may be established a traffic violations bureau for the town. The
judge may establish rules, consistent with the laws of the state and with the
ordinances of this municipality, for the traffic violations bureau.
   B.   The traffic violations bureau shall be staffed by court personnel and
be physically separate and apart from the police department.
   C.   The traffic violations bureau shall accept fines which may be paid in
lieu of a court appearance for such traffic offenses as may be designated by
the judge under the court's rules. The schedule of fines shall be adopted by
the governing body from time to time by motion or resolution. A copy shall be
kept in the clerk's office.
   D.   All such fines shall be the minimum penalty prescribed for such
violation, and no costs shall be assessed.
   E.   In no event shall payment of a fine without court appearance be
accepted in the traffic violations bureau for the following offenses:
      1.   A second or subsequent offense of the same violation;
      2.   Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs or
actual physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs;
      3.   Leaving the scene of an accident;
      4.   Driving while license is suspended or revoked;
      5.   Reckless driving;
      6.   Careless driving; or
      7.   Any charge made because of a motor vehicle accident in which
personal injury or death occurred.
   F.   Payment of any fine to the traffic violations bureau shall be deemed a
final determination of the cause against the defendant. In no event shall any
such payment be introduced as evidence in any civil cause arising out of the
offense charged. (1985 Code)
6-122: SUMMONS FOR ARREST:
   A.   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance, the
judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless the
defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and has
given bond for appearance, he shall issue a summons, naming the person charged,
specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating the offense
with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge in the
court on a certain day as specified after the summons is served upon him, and
including such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   B.   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest, as provided by
this chapter. (1985 Code)
6-123: FORM OF ARREST WARRANT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this municipality,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the attorney of
this municipality or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest,
in substantially the following form:
The Town of Shattuck to the Chief of Police of the Town of Shattuck, Oklahoma:
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been committed
and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor forthwith
to arrest the above named defendant and bring the above named (name of
defendant) before me, at the municipal courtroom,
Witness my hand this            day of                , 19       .
         Judge of the Municipal Court
         Shattuck, Oklahoma
   B.   It is the duty of the police chief, personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the police force of this municipality, or through any
other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as
possible. (1985 Code)
6-124: PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND:
   A.   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation
or summons or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance
in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail and for release
upon own recognizance. In case of arrests made at night or under other
conditions of emergency or when the judge is not available, the rules shall
authorize the chief of police, or his designated representative, to accept a
temporary cash bond of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than the
maximum monetary penalty provided by ordinance for the offense charged.
   B.   A bail bond schedule may be adopted by the town board and amended from
time to time by motion or resolution. (1985 Code)
6-125: TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROCEDURES:
   A.   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law
or municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
      1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a participant of the nonresident violator compact, or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      3.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation; and
      4.   The violation does not constitute:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   Negligent homicide;
         c.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         d.   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         e.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         f.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         g.   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections A4a through A4f of this section;
         h.   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         i.   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   B.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal recognizance
as provided for in subsection A of this section, then the arresting officer
shall:
      1.   Designate the traffic charge;
      2.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state,
and expiration date;
      3.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
      4.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
      5.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation.
The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal recognizance
based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall contain a written
notice to the arrested person that release upon personal recognizance based
upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is conditional and that
failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in the suspension of the
arrested person's driver's license in this state, or in the nonresident's home
state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
   C.   The court, or the court clerk as directed by the court, may continue or
reschedule the date and time of arraignment upon request of the arrested person
or his attorney. If the arraignment is continued or rescheduled, the arrested
person shall remain on personal recognizance and written promise to appear
until such arraignment, in the same manner and with the same consequences as if
the continued or rescheduled arraignment was entered on the citation by the
arresting officer and signed by the defendant. An arraignment may be continued
or rescheduled more than one time; provided however, the court shall require an
arraignment to be had within a reasonable time. It shall remain the duty of the
defendant to appear for arraignment unless the citation is satisfied as
provided for in subsection D of this section. Procedures for arraignment,
continuances and scheduling, timely appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo
contendere, posting bail, payment of fines and costs, issuance of arrest
warrants, and requests for suspension of driver's license, shall be required by
the municipality or as provided in state law, 22 Oklahoma Statutes sections
1115.1 through 1115.5.
   D.   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of
the citation furnished to him or on a legible copy thereof, together with the
date of the plea and his signature. The defendant shall be responsible for
assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the court clerk. Payment of the
fine and costs may be made by personal, cashier's, traveler's, certified or
guaranteed bank check, postal or commercial money order, or other form of
payment approved by the court in the amount prescribed as bail for the offense.
However, the defendant shall not use currency for payment by mail. If the
defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere as provided for in
this subsection, such plea shall be accepted by the court and the amount of the
fine and costs shall be as prescribed by ordinance for the violation charged or
as prescribed by the court or, in the absence of such ordinance, in the amount
prescribed by the court.
   E.   If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant and the municipal or district court clerk, within
one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by
the arresting officer, shall notify the state department of public safety that:
      1.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
      2.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
      3.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
      4.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
The court clerk shall request the state department of public safety to either
suspend the defendant's driver's license to operate a motor vehicle in this
state, or notify the defendant's home state and request suspension of the
defendant's driver's license in accordance with the provisions of the
nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall be on a form
approved or furnished by the state department of public safety. The court clerk
shall not process the notification and request provided for in this subsection
if, with respect to such charges:
      1.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was jailed,
or otherwise settled the case;
      2.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
      3.   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation a overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials; or
      4.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   F.   The court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driver's
license suspension submitted to the state department of public safety pursuant
to the provisions of this section. When the court or court clerk receives
appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes
other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the court
clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the defendant
personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at such other
address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court or court
clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the
citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator compact,
and shall in all other cases, notify the state department of public safety of
the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the state department of public safety.
Provided however, the court or court clerk's failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided for in this subsection shall in no event create
any civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, or any state department or agency or any employee thereof
but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled thereto upon
request. (1985 Code)
6-126: ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The judge, or the attorney of the municipality, shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by
jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether
he pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may
proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the
court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(1985 Code)
6-127: TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may obtain
a reasonable postponement thereof.
   B.   The defendant must be present in person at the trial or be represented
by counsel if permitted by the judge.
   C.   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or by the
statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by
the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
   D.   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the trial, the
court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
   E.   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket.
   F.   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once.
   G.   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he be
imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day's imprisonment
for each five dollars ($5.00) of fine or as set out in subsection H of this
section for defendants who are without means to make such payment.
   H.   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
municipal judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon the court
minutes and to be certified to the district court of the county wherein the
status of government is situated where it shall be entered upon the district
court judgment docket and shall have the full force and effect of a district
court judgment. Thereupon the same remedies shall be available for the
enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other judgment creditor.
(1985 Code)
6-128: WITNESS FEES:
   A.   Witnesses in any proceeding in the court other than the police officers
or peace officers shall be entitled to a sum per each day of attendance, plus
mileage for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in going to and
returning from the place of attendance if their residence is outside the limits
of the municipality. However, no witness shall receive fees or mileage in more
than one case for the same period of time or the same travel. A defendant
seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the clerk a sum sufficient to
cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for each witness to be
summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an indigent defendant who
files an affidavit setting out:
      1.   The names of no more than three (3) witnesses;
      2.   That the defendant, by reason of his poverty, is unable to provide
the fees and mileage allowed by law;
      3.   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
      4.   That their attendance at the trial is necessary for his proper
defense.
The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the municipality. (1985 Code)
6-129: SENTENCING:
   A.   The judge may suspend, modify, defer or reduce a sentence in accordance
with 11 Oklahoma Statutes sections 21-123 and 27-124.
   B.   A judge who is licensed to practice law in this state in imposing a
judgment and sentence, at his discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce, or
suspend or defer the imposition of such sentence or any part thereof and to
authorize probation for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of
sentence, under such terms or conditions as the judge may specify. Procedures
relating to suspension of the judgment or costs or both shall be as provided in
11 Oklahoma Statutes section 27-123. Upon completion of the probation term, the
defendant shall be discharged without a court judgment of guilt, and the
verdict, judgment of guilty or pleas of guilty shall be expunged from the
record and the charge dismissed with prejudice to any further action. Upon a
finding of the court that the conditions of probation have been violated, the
municipal judge may enter a judgment of guilty. The judge may continue or delay
imposing a judgment and sentence for a period of time not to exceed six (6)
months from the date of sentence. At the expiration of such period of time the
judge may allow the municipal attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense.
If a deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00) may be imposed as costs in the case. (1985 Code)
6-130: IMPRISONMENT, WORK BY PRISONERS:
   A.   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy
thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be delivered to the chief of police, the
sheriff of the county or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   B.   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may
be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets, avenues,
alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or property. For each day of
such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving two (2) days of
imprisonment under his sentence.
   C.   The chief of police, subject to the direction of the governing body,
shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the department in
charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself, or by some
person designated by him, shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the
chief of police shall make provisions therefor. (1985 Code)
6-131: FINES AND COSTS:
   A.   If judgment of conviction is entered, the clerk of the court shall
assess the costs to the defendant, which costs shall be thirty dollars
($30.00), plus the fees and mileage of witnesses and jurors. (Ord. 429, 9-14-
2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
6-132: DEDUCTION FROM FINES FOR TRAINING FUND:
For every fine or bond forfeiture of ten dollars ($10.00) or more collected by
the municipal court, two dollars ($2.00) shall be set aside for the state law
enforcement officers training fund. The town treasurer beginning January 1, and
every quarter thereafter, shall deposit the monies set aside from the previous
quarter pursuant to the first sentence of this section into the state law
enforcement officers training fund. (1985 Code)
PART 7
FINANCE AND TAXATION
Finance And Budget Administration   1
Sales Tax   2
Utility Tax   3
Use Tax   4
Hotel Tax   5
CHAPTER 1
FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
7-101: Depositories Designated; Funds To Be Deposited
7-102: Funds Secured By Unit Collateral System
7-103: Contractual Services Defined For Purchasing
7-104: Purchases, How Made
7-105: Adoption Of Additional Fiscal Procedures; Competitive Bidding And
Purchasing; Dispositions Of Surplus Or Obsolete Property
7-101: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED 1 :
All banks and all savings and loan associations in this town which are
incorporated under federal or state law are hereby designated as depositories
for the funds of the town. The town treasurer shall deposit daily all public
funds received by him in such banks or savings and loan associations. (1985
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 12-110.
7-102: FUNDS SECURED BY UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM 1 :
The deposits of the town shall be secured by the unit collateral system
provided by the Oklahoma Statutes. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 62 OS § 516.1 et seq.
7-103: CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED FOR PURCHASING:
"Contractual services", for the purpose of this chapter, means services
performed for the town by persons not in the employment of the town, and may
include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in connection
with the services under express or implied contract. Contractual services shall
include travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage; telephone; telegraph;
utilities; rents; printing out; binding; repairs, alterations and maintenance
of buildings, equipment, streets and bridges, and other physical facilities of
the town; and other services performed for the town by persons not in the
employment of the town. (1985 Code)
7-104: PURCHASES, HOW MADE:
   A.   Adoption Of Purchasing And Cash Disbursement Processing Methods And
Internal Controls:
      1.   In order to establish processes for purchasing and payment, to
establish internal control structure adequate to provide reasonable assurance
against unauthorized or illegal payment of invoices, and to provide for petty
cash accounts, the following processing methods and internal controls are
hereby adopted.
   B.   Purchases Of Goods And Services (Other Than Payroll And Payroll
Related):
      1.   The following employees or officers have been designated as
purchasing officers empowered to purchase or contract against accounts:
         a.   Town clerk-treasurer.
         b.   Fire chief.
         c.   Town administrator.
         d.   Police chief.
      2.   The officer or employee receiving satisfactory delivery of
merchandise or contract services shall acknowledge such fact by signing the
invoice or delivery ticket. The invoice, along with delivery ticket if
applicable, must then be verified by the authorized purchasing officer as to
quantities, services, and prices. If correct, the invoice must then be signed
by the authorized purchasing officer and coded with the fund(s) and budget line
item(s) to be charged.
      3.   The town clerk-treasurer shall review all invoices for proper
signature and appropriateness of fund(s) and budget line item(s) to be charged.
Upon acceptance of the invoices, the town clerk-treasurer shall prepare checks
in payment of the invoices, and shall cancel each invoice as its check is
prepared. Invoices shall be canceled by noting on the invoice the date paid,
the check number used to pay the invoice, and the amount paid with the check.
      4.   The invoices and checks shall be presented to at least one other
authorized check signer, town administrator or mayor, who shall compare the
checks to the invoices and verify their accuracy. Upon verification, such
authorized check signer and the town clerk-treasurer shall sign the checks and
prepare them for distribution. The town clerk-treasurer shall then record the
checks in the appropriate cash disbursements journals and shall prepare a check
register. The check register shall list in check number order the check date,
check number, vendor, and check amount.
      5.   The check register shall be provided to the governing body for
informational purposes at their next regular meeting; however governing body
approval is not required prior to payment of invoices if paid charges were
incurred and paid in accordance with the provisions above.
      6.   For all purchases of goods and services over ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), purchase orders or contract shall be prepared and approved by the
governing body prior to the time the commitment is made, and such approval
shall be recorded in the minutes. Should appropriation not be available for the
proposed purchase or commitment, the purchase or commitment shall not proceed
until necessary budget amendments are authorized. Purchases of over two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) are required to have a Purchase
Order, purchases over ten thousand dollars ($10,000) require board approval.
   C.   Payroll Disbursements:
      1.   For all employees and officers of the town of Shattuck, a documented
record shall be maintained in a personal file of the authorized rate of pay or
salary for each employee and officer.
      2.   For each pay period, a record of time worked shall be prepared in
the form of time sheets or logs for each employee and officer to be paid. Such
record of time worked shall be verified as to its accuracy in writing by the
employee or officer and town clerk-treasurer.
      3.   Upon verification of the work record, a payroll register including
the amount of gross pay, authorized deductions, and net pay shall be prepared
by the town clerk-treasurer.
      4.   The net payroll checks shall be prepared from the payroll register
along with checks for payment of related payroll taxes and other payroll
benefits required by law or contract.
      5.   The payroll checks and payroll register shall be presented to at
least one other authorized check signer who shall compare the payroll check to
the payroll register and verify their accuracy. Upon verification such other
authorized check signer and the town clerk-treasurer shall sign the checks and
prepare them for distribution. The town clerk-treasurer shall then record the
checks in the appropriate cash disbursements journals.
      6.   The payroll register shall be provided to the governing body for
informational purposes at the next regular meeting; however, governing body
approval is not required prior to payment of payroll related costs if incurred
and paid in accordance with the provisions above.
   D.   Petty Cash:
      1.   As provided for in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
17-102(D), the town may have petty cash accounts for use in making certain
small payments for costs incurred in operating the town.
      2.   Each petty cash account established shall require governing body
approval, including the expressed amount of the petty cash account. However, in
no case should the expressed balance exceed two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00).
      3.   The petty cash accounts shall be reimbursed by utilizing properly
itemized invoices or petty cash voucher slips and processing the reimbursement
in the manner used for payment of purchases of goods and services as set forth
in subsections A and B of this section and as the same may be from time to time
amended or recodified. However, in no case shall an individual payment from
petty cash exceed fifty dollars ($50.00). The petty cash accounts will be set
up at the public library, police department and utility office. (Ord. 392, 11-
8-2010; amd. Ord. 463, 12-14-2020)
7-105: ADOPTION OF ADDITIONAL FISCAL PROCEDURES; COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND
PURCHASING; DISPOSITIONS OF SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE PROPERTY:
   A.   Interfund Transfers:
      1.   All transfers between funds shall only be made in accordance with
governing body appropriations as reflected in the original or amended town
budget.
      2.   Once lawfully appropriated, interfund transfer payments may be made
by the town clerk-treasurer without further governing body approval in the
manner used for payment of purchases of goods and services.
   B.   Debt Service:
      1.   All long term indebtedness in the form of bonds, notes, or lease
purchase obligations shall be incurred in the manner provided by law.
      2.   Once lawfully incurred, the town clerk-treasurer shall make payments
of principal and interest on the debt in accordance with the terms specified by
the lender without further approval of the governing body.
      3.   The manner of payment shall be consistent with the manner used for
payment of goods and services.
      4.   Current balances on outstanding debt shall be maintained by the town
clerk-treasurer in appropriate journals.
   C.   Financial Reporting:
      1.   The town clerk-treasurer shall prepare written monthly financial
reports which disclose at least all receipts and expenditures by fund in the
same format as the approved budget and showing the variance from the budget.
      2.   The financial report shall be placed on the agenda for
acknowledgement by the governing body at each regular meeting.
   D.   Competitive Bidding:
      1.   The town of Shattuck shall adhere to the provisions of 61 Oklahoma
Statutes section 101 et seq., and as the same may be from time to time amended
or recodified when determining when competitive bidding is required and the
manner by which competitive bids will be obtained.
      2.   If this code provides for additional competitive bidding
requirements, such additional requirements shall be met.
      3.   In addition to the requirements of subsection D1 of this section
public trusts created pursuant to 60 Oklahoma Statutes section 176 of which the
town of Shattuck is beneficiary, shall also follow the competitive bidding
provisions of 60 Oklahoma Statutes section 176(g) and as the same may be from
time to time amended or recodified.
   E.   Applicability To Public Trusts:
      1.   For all public trusts created pursuant to 60 Oklahoma Statutes 176
through 180, for which the town is beneficiary and for which the trust's board
of trustees is comprised entirely of members of the town's board of trustees,
all of the foregoing subsections of this section shall apply.
      2.   For the purposes of public trusts as mentioned above, "town clerk"
shall mean trust secretary as defined by the trust indenture.
   F.   Surplus Or Obsolete Property:
      1.   In accordance with the provisions of 70 Oklahoma Statutes section
1210.45 as the same may be from time to time amended or recodified, the board
of trustees of the town of Shattuck, in its discretion and upon such terms,
conditions and for such consideration as it deems advisable, to lease, loan,
sell or donate any obsolete, surplus or unneeded machinery, equipment or motor
vehicle which it may have to the board of education of any technology center
school or technology center school district for the uses provided in said
statute.
      2.   Subject to the provisions of state law and this section, surplus or
obsolete supplies, materials, property, or equipment belonging to the town may
be sold by the town board of trustees.
      3.   No sale shall be made under this section until the town board of
trustees has declared the supplies, materials, property, or equipment involved
to be surplus or obsolete.
      4.   Except as may otherwise be provided, the town board of trustees
shall advertise any sale under this section in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town or county, or in such other manner as deemed necessary
to adequately reach prospective buyers to give them an opportunity to make
bids. All bids shall be sealed and opened in public at a designated time and
place, except when the sale is by auction. The town board of trustees shall
sell such supplies, materials, property, and equipment to highest bidder and,
if necessary, shall cast lots in case of a tie to determine to whom to sell.
(Ord. 392, 11-8-2010)
CHAPTER 2
SALES TAX
SECTION:
7-201: Citation And Codification
7-202: Definitions
7-203: Tax Collector Defined
7-204: Classification Of Taxpayers
7-205: Subsisting State Permits
7-206: Effective Date
7-207: Purpose Of Revenues
7-208: Tax Rate; Sales Subject To Tax
7-209: Exemptions; Sales Subject To Other Tax
7-210: Exemptions; Governmental And Nonprofit Entities
7-211: Exemptions; General
7-212: Exemptions; Agriculture
7-213: Exemptions; Manufacturers
7-214: Exemptions; Corporations And Partnerships
7-215: Tax Due When; Returns; Records
7-216: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
7-217: Tax Constitutes Debt
7-218: Vendor's Duty To Collect Tax; Penalties
7-219: Returns And Remittances; Discounts
7-220: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
7-221: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
7-222: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
7-223: Fraudulent Returns
7-224: Records Confidential
7-225: Amendments
7-226: Provisions Cumulative
7-201: CITATION AND CODIFICATION 1 :
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as TOWN OF SHATTUCK SALES TAX
ORDINANCE. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS §§ 1350 et seq., 2701.
7-202: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma sales tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, and in 37 Oklahoma Statutes sections
576 and 593 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(1985 Code)
7-203: TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED:
The term "tax collector" as used in this chapter means the department of the
town or the official agency of the state duly designated according to law or
contract, and authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax levied
in this chapter. (1985 Code)
7-204: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter the classification of taxpayers hereunder shall
be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma sales tax code.
(1985 Code)
7-205: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma tax
commission pursuant to the Oklahoma sales tax code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional town permit for the same purpose. (1985 Code)
7-206: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter became effective as to each cent tax after approval of a majority
of the registered voters of the town voting on the ordinance in the manner
prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-112. (1985 Code)
7-207: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
   A.   It is the purpose of the sales tax to provide revenues for the support
of the functions of the municipal government of the town.
   B.   It is the purpose of the third cent sales tax 1  levied by ordinance
286 to provide revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal
government of the town. Sales tax revenues shall go into the general fund of
the town except for eighty five percent (85%) of one percent (1%) which is to
be kept in a separate fund to be used solely for construction and maintenance
of streets and alleys in the town. (1985 Code; amended 1987)
   C.   It is the sole purpose of the fourth cent sales tax levied by ordinance
432 to provide all additional proceeds derived therefrom to the Shattuck
hospital authority to be used for operations and maintenance of the Newman
Memorial Hospital. (Ord. 432, 3-14-2016)
 
Notes
  1. Ordinance 201, effective May 1, 1969, levied the first cent tax. Ordinance
1 219, effective May 1, 1975, levied the second cent tax. Ordinance 286,
  effective December 1, 1989, levied a third $0.01 tax earmarked as provided
  herein.
7-208: TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX:
   A.   There is hereby levied an excise tax of four percent (4%) 1  upon the
gross proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the
Oklahoma sales tax code including, but not exclusive of, the following: (1985
Code; amended 1989; Ord. 432, 3-14-2016; Ord. 458, 5-11-2020)
      1.   Tangible personal property;
      2.   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service except water and those specifically exempt by this
chapter;
      3.   Transportation for hire of persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, pullman car companies, airlines and all other means of
transportation for hire;
      4.   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or
users, including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This
shall include all services and rental charges having any connection with
transmission of any message;
      5.   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds, and characters and
the service of printing or overprinting, including the copying of information
by mimeograph or multigraph or by otherwise duplicating written or printed
matter in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on
magnetic tapes furnished by customers;
      6.   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public
rooming house, motel, public lodging house or tourist camps;
      7.   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels
and parking lots;
      8.   Selling, renting or otherwise furnishing computer hardware or
software or coding sheets, cards or magnetic tapes on which prewritten programs
have been coded, punched or otherwise recorded;
      9.   Food, confections and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants, or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
      10.   Advertising of all kinds, types and character, including any and
all devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except those specifically exempt by this chapter;
      11.   Dues or fees to clubs including free or complimentary dues or fees
which shall have the value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise
been made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services
rendered at a health spa or club or any similar facility or business;
      12.   Sales of tickets, fees or other charges made for admission to or
voluntary contributions made to places of amusement, sports entertainment,
exhibition, display or other recreational events or activities, including free
or complimentary admissions which shall have the value equivalent to the charge
that would have otherwise been made;
      13.   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind
of activity, when no admission is charged spectators, such as tennis,
racquetball or handball courts;
      14.   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement,
sports, entertainment or recreational activity such as trampolines or golf
carts;
      15.   The rental of equipment for amusement sports, entertainment or
other recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts, or
other sports and athletic equipment;
      16.   The gross receipts from sales through any vending machine, without
any deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a
person who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom;
      17.   Gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of
tangible personal property, including rental or lease of personal property when
the rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered. Provided if the rental or lease
charge is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making the
rental or lease agreement and the expected life of the property, and the rental
or lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in the statement,
bill or invoice delivered to the consumer, the cost of services rendered shall
be deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds;
      18.   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease or other device or
instrument whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed
performances or rights to receive images, pictures or performances for telecast
by any method are transferred. Provided, persons regularly engaged in the
business of exhibiting motion pictures for which the sale of tickets or
admissions is taxed under this chapter shall not be deemed to be consumers or
users in respect to the licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture
features, shorts, cartoons and scenes from copyrighted features and the sale or
licensing of such films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of
this chapter;
      19.   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees and other floral items, whether or
not same was produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or
nursery business in this state, including all orders taken by an Oklahoma
business for delivery in another state. Provided, all orders taken outside this
state for delivery within this state shall not be subject to the tax levied by
this chapter;
      20.   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors or
other salesmen, for resale where there is likelihood that this state will lose
tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing this chapter because of:
         a.   The operation of the business;
         b.   The nature of the business;
         c.   The turnover of independent contractors;
         d.   The lack of place of business in which to display a permit or
keep records;
         e.   Lack of adequate records;
         f.   The persons are minors or transients;
         g.   The persons are engaged in service businesses; or
         h.   Any other reasonable reason;
      21.   Any taxable services and tangible personal property including
materials, supplies and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though such real estate is intended
for resale as real property are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or
users and taxable; and
      22.   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons
who are primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repairmen, are
hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users and taxable. (1985 Code;
amended 1989)
 
Notes
  1. The additional 1 percent levied by ordinance 458 is effective October 1,
1 2020, for a period of two (2) years for the sole purpose of providing all
  additional proceeds derived therefrom to the Shattuck Hospital Authority to
  be used for operations and maintenance of the Newman Memorial Hospital.
7-209: EXEMPTIONS; SALES SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX:
   A.   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
chapter the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the Oklahoma sales
tax code inclusive, but not exclusive of, and derived from the:
      1.   Sale of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline
excise tax or special fuels tax levied by state law has been paid;
      2.   Sale of motor vehicles or any optional equipment or accessories
attached to motor vehicles on which the Oklahoma motor vehicle excise tax
levied by state law has been paid;
      3.   Sale of crude petroleum or natural or casinghead gas and other
products subject to gross production tax under state law. This exemption shall
not apply when such products are sold to consumer or user for consumption or
use, except when used for injection into the earth for the purpose of promoting
or facilitating the production of oil or gas. This subsection shall not operate
to increase or repeal the gross production tax levied by the laws of this
state; and
      4.   Sale of aircraft on which the tax levied pursuant to 68 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 6001 through 6004 has been paid. The provisions of this
subsection A4 shall not become operative until July 1, 1984. (1985 Code)
7-210: EXEMPTIONS; GOVERNMENTAL AND NONPROFIT ENTITIES:
   A.   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
chapter:
      1.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to the United States
government or to the state of Oklahoma, any political subdivision of this state
or any agency of a political subdivision of the state; provided, all sales to
contractors in connection with the performance of any contract with the United
States government, state of Oklahoma or any of its political subdivisions shall
not be exempted from the tax levied by this chapter, except as hereinafter
provided;
      2.   Sales of property to agents appointed or contracted with by agencies
or instrumentalities of the United States government if ownership and
possession of such property transfers immediately to the United States
government;
      3.   Sales made directly by county, district or state fair authorities of
this state, upon the premises of the fair authority, for the sole benefit of
the fair authority;
      4.   Sale of food in cafeterias or lunchrooms of elementary schools, high
schools, colleges or universities which are operated primarily for teachers and
pupils and are not operated primarily for the public or for profit;
      5.   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof; provided, such societies
or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan or
system, and provided such societies or organizations do not operate for a
profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members thereof
to the exclusion of other members;
      6.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except sales made in the course of business for profit or savings, competing
with other persons engaged in the same or similar business;
      7.   The amount of proceeds received from the sale of admission tickets
which is separately stated on the ticket of admission for the repayment of
money borrowed by any accredited state supported college or university for the
purpose of constructing or enlarging any facility to be used for the staging of
an athletic event, a theatrical production, or any other form of entertainment,
edification or cultural cultivation to which entry is gained with a paid
admission ticket. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, athletic
fields, athletic stadiums, field houses, amphitheaters and theaters. To be
eligible for this sales tax exemption, the amount separately stated on the
admission ticket shall be a surcharge which is imposed, collected and used for
the sole purpose of servicing or aiding in the servicing of debt incurred by
the college or university to effect the capital improvements hereinbefore
described;
      8.   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the council
organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the Boy Scouts of
America, Girl Scouts of U.S.A. and the Campfire Girls shall be exempt from
sales tax;
      9.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to any county,
municipality, public school district, the institutions of the Oklahoma system
of higher education and the Grand River Dam authority, or to any person with
whom any of the above named subdivisions or agencies of this state has duly
entered into a public contract pursuant to law, necessary for carrying out such
public contract or to any subcontractor to such a public contract. Any person
making purchases on behalf of such subdivision or agency of this state shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor that the purchases are made for and on behalf of such subdivision
or agency of this state and set out the name of such public subdivision or
agency. Any person who wrongfully or erroneously certifies that purchases are
for any of the above named subdivision or agencies of this state or who
otherwise violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined an amount equal to double the amount of the
sales tax involved or incarcerated for not more than sixty (60) days or both;
      10.   Sales of tangible personal property or services to private
institutions of higher education and private elementary and secondary
institutions of education accredited by the state department of education or
registered by the state board of education for purposes of participating in
federal programs or accredited as defined by the Oklahoma state regents for
higher education which are exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code, including materials, supplies,
and equipment used in the construction and improvement of buildings and other
structures owned by the institutions and operated for educational purposes. Any
person, firm, agency or entity making purchases on behalf of any institution,
agency or subdivision in this state, shall certify in writing, on the copy of
the invoice or sales ticket the nature of the purchases, and violation of this
act shall be a misdemeanor as set forth in subsection A9 of this section; and
      11.   Tuition and educational fees paid to private institutions of higher
education and private elementary and secondary institutions of education
accredited by the state department of education or registered by the state
board of education for purposes of participating in federal programs or
accredited as defined by the Oklahoma state regents for higher education which
are exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of the section 501(c)(3) of
the internal revenue code. (1985 Code)
7-211: EXEMPTIONS; GENERAL:
   A.   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
chapter:
      1.   Transportation of school pupils to and from elementary schools or
high schools, in motor or other vehicles;
      2.   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not
exceed one dollar ($1.00), or local transportation of persons within the
corporate limits of a municipality except by taxicab;
      3.   Carrier sales of newspapers and periodicals made directly to
consumers. Other sales of newspapers and periodicals where any individual
transaction does not exceed seventy five cents ($0.75). A carrier is a person
who regularly delivers newspapers or periodicals to subscribers on an assigned
route;
      4.   Sales for resale to persons engaged in the business of reselling the
articles purchased, whether within or without the state, provided that such
sales to residents of this state are made to persons to whom sales tax permits
have been issued as provided in this chapter. This exemption shall not apply to
the sales of articles made to persons holding permits when such persons
purchase items for their use and which they are not regularly engaged in the
business of reselling; neither shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible
personal property to peddlers, solicitors and other salesmen who do not have an
established place of business and a sales tax permit;
      5.   Sales of advertising space in newspapers and periodicals and
billboard advertising service, and any advertising through the electronic
media, including radio, television and cable television;
      6.   Eggs, feed, supplies, machinery and equipment purchased by persons
regularly engaged in the business of raising worms, fish, any insect or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic animal life and used for the purpose of
raising same for marketing. This exemption shall only be granted and extended
to the purchaser when the items are to be used and in fact are used in the
raising of animal life as set out above. Each purchaser shall certify, in
writing, on the invoice or sales ticket retained by the vendor that he is
regularly engaged in the business of raising such animal life and that the
items purchased will be used only in such business. The vendor shall certify to
the Oklahoma tax commission that the price of the items has been reduced to
grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or
vendor shall be a misdemeanor;
      7.   Sales of medicine or drugs prescribed for the treatment of human
beings by a person licensed to prescribe the medicine or drugs. This exemption
shall not apply to proprietary or patent medicines as defined by 59 Oklahoma
Statutes section 353.1;
      8.   Transfers of title or possession of empty, partially filled, or
filled returnable oil drums to any person who is not regularly engaged in the
business of selling, reselling or otherwise transferring empty, partially
filled, or filled returnable oil drums; and
      9.   Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting the
city from levying and collecting taxes on the sale of natural or artificial gas
and electricity, whether sold for residential or commercial purposes. Any sales
tax levied by the city on natural or artificial gas and electricity shall be in
effect regardless of ordinance or contractual provisions referring to
previously imposed state sales tax on such items. (1985 Code)
7-212: EXEMPTIONS; AGRICULTURE:
   A.   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
chapter:
      1.   Sales of agricultural products produced in this state by the
producer thereof directly to the consumer or user when such articles are sold
at or from a farm and not from some other place of business, as follows:
         a.   Farm, orchard or garden products;
         b.   Dairy products sold by a dairyman or farmer who owns all the cows
from which the dairy products offered for sale are produced;
         c.   Livestock sold by the producer at a special livestock sale; or
         d.   The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed as
exempting sales by florists, nurserymen or chicken hatcheries, or sales of
dairy products by any other business except as set out herein;
      2.   Livestock, including cattle, horses, mules, or other domestic or
draft animals, sold by the producer by private treaty or at a special livestock
sale;
      3.   Sale of baby chicks, turkey poults and starter pullets used in the
commercial production of chickens, turkeys and eggs, provided that the
purchaser certifies, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to
be retained by the vendor that the pullets will be used primarily for egg
production;
      4.   Sale of salt, grains, tankage, oyster shells, mineral supplements,
limestone and other generally recognized animal feeds for the following
purposes and subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Feed which is fed to poultry and livestock, including breeding
stock and wool bearing stock, for the purpose of producing eggs, poultry, milk
or meat for human consumption;
         b.   Feed purchased in Oklahoma for the purpose of being fed to and
which is fed by the purchaser to horses, mules or other domestic or draft
animals used directly in the producing and marketing of agricultural products;
         c.   Any stock tonics, water purifying products, stock sprays,
disinfectants or other such agricultural supplies;
         d.   Poultry shall not be construed to include any fowl other than
domestic fowl kept and raised for the market or production of eggs;
         e.   Livestock shall not be construed to include any pet animals such
as dogs, cats, birds or such other furbearing animals; and
         f.   This exemption shall only be granted and extended where the
purchaser of feed that is to be used and in fact is used for a purpose that
would bring about an exemption hereunder executes an invoice or sales ticket in
duplicate on a form to be prescribed by the tax commission. The purchaser may
demand and receive a copy of the invoice or sales ticket and the vendor shall
retain a copy;
      5.   Sales of items to be and in fact used in the production of
agricultural products. Sale of the following items shall be subject to the
following limitations:
         a.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person regularly engaged,
for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor, that he is so engaged in farming or ranching and that the
material purchased will be used only in such business;
         b.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged in the
business of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land owned
or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall certify, in writing,
on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor that he
is engaged in the business of applying such materials to lands owned or leased
and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the business of
farming or ranching, and shall show in the certificate the name or names of
such owner or lessee and operator, the location of the lands on which the
materials are to be applied to each such land, and he shall further certify
that his contract price has been reduced so as to give the farmer or rancher
the full benefit of this exemption;
         c.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer, pharmaceuticals and biologicals
to persons engaged in the business of applying such materials on a contract or
custom basis shall not be considered to be sales to contractors under this
chapter, and the sales shall not be considered to be taxable sales within the
meaning of the Oklahoma sales tax code. As used in this section, "agricultural
fertilizer", "pharmaceuticals" and "biologicals" mean any substance sold and
used for soil enrichment or soil corrective purposes or for promoting the
growth and productivity of plants or animals;
         d.   Sales of agricultural seed or plants to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. This section shall
not be construed as exempting from sales tax, seed which is packaged and sold
for use in noncommercial flower and vegetable gardens;
         e.   Sales of agricultural chemical pesticides to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. For the purposes
of this act, agricultural chemical pesticides shall include any substance or
mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying, repelling or
mitigating any insect, snail, slug, rodent, bird, nematode, fungus, weed or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic plant or animal life or virus, bacteria or
other microorganism, except viruses, bacterial or other microorganisms on or in
living man, or any substance or mixture of substances intended for use as a
plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant; and
         f.   The exemption shall only be granted and extended to the purchaser
where the items are to be used and in fact are used in the production of
agricultural products. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of
the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material
purchased will only be used in his farming occupation. The vendor shall certify
to the Oklahoma tax commission that the contract price of the items has been
reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the
purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor, and, upon violation and conviction
for a second offense the Oklahoma tax commission shall revoke the vendor's
sales tax permit; and
      6.   Sale of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel, oil,
lubricants and other substances used for operation and maintenance of the farm
machinery to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production,
cultivation, planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation
or irrigation of any livestock, poultry, agricultural or dairy products
produced from such lands. Each purchaser of farm machinery, repair parts
thereto or fuel must certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor, that he is engaged in farming or ranching
and that the farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel will be used only in
farming or ranching. The exemption provided for herein shall not apply to motor
vehicles. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice
or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material purchased will
only be used in his farming occupation. The vendor shall certify to the
Oklahoma tax commission that the price of the items has been reduced to grant
the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or vendor
shall be a misdemeanor, and, upon violation and conviction for a second offense
the Oklahoma tax commission shall revoke the vendor's sales tax permit. (1985
Code)
7-213: EXEMPTIONS; MANUFACTURERS:
   A.   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this
chapter:
      1.   Goods, wares, merchandise and property purchased for the purpose of
being used or consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling or preparing for sale a finished article and such goods,
wares, merchandise or property become integral parts of the manufactured,
compounded, processed, assembled or prepared products or are consumed in the
process of manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling or preparing
products for resale. The term "manufacturing plants" shall mean those
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and
generally recognized as such;
      2.   Ethyl alcohol when sold and used for the purpose of blending same
with motor fuel on which motor fuel tax is levied by state law;
      3.   Sale of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing plants in Oklahoma, and machinery and equipment
purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing plants already
established in Oklahoma. This exemption shall not apply unless such machinery
and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to taxation under this chapter. The term
"manufacturing plants" means those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
      4.   Sales of containers when sold to a person regularly engaged in the
business of reselling empty or filled containers or when purchased for the
purpose of packaging raw products of farm, garden or orchard for resale to the
consumer or processor. This exemption shall not apply to the sale of any
containers used more than once and which are ordinarily known as returnable
containers, except returnable soft drink bottles. Each and every transfer of
title or possession of such returnable containers in this state to any person
who is not regularly engaged in the business of selling, reselling or otherwise
transferring empty or filled containers shall be taxable under this code. This
exemption shall not apply to the sale of labels or other materials delivered
along with items sold but which are not necessary or absolutely essential to
the sale of the sold merchandise; or
      5.   Sale of tangible personal property manufactured in Oklahoma when
sold by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state. (1985 Code)
7-214: EXEMPTIONS; CORPORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS:
   A.   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied in this
chapter:
      1.   The transfer of tangible personal property, as follows:
         a.   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this subsection the term "reorganization" means a
statutory merger or consolidation or the acquisition by a corporation of
substantially all of the properties of another corporation when the
consideration is solely all or a part of the voting stock of the acquiring
corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary corporation;
         b.   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of
a corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
         c.   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such
corporation where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately
after the transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities
received by each is substantially in proportion to his interest in the property
prior to the transfer;
         d.   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the
former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer,
members of such partnership and the interest in the partnership, received by
each, is substantially in proportion to his interest in the property prior to
the transfer; or
         e.   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in
the dissolution of such partnership; or
      2.   Sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other person who after such sale owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property. (1985 Code)
7-215: TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS:
The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the Oklahoma sales
tax code. (1985 Code)
7-216: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the tax
collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the tax collector, in the collection of both the town sales tax and
the state sales tax. (1985 Code)
7-217: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
The taxes, penalty and interest due under this chapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (1985
Code)
7-218: VENDOR'S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX; PENALTIES:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It is the duty of each and every vendor in this town to collect from
the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter, or an
amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall constitute
a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or user to
vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts.
   C.   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
chapter, or wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied,
or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which
infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user
by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   D.   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the town. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
7-219: RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be subject to
the same discount as may be allowed by the Oklahoma sales tax code for
collection of state sales taxes. (1985 Code)
7-220: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY:
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this
chapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this chapter. The failure or refusal of
any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the
time and manner required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
In addition, if the delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the
taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this chapter.
(1985 Code)
7-221: WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer's failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in administration
of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220. To
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this chapter. (1985 Code)
7-222: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure, and
under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the state
sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish the
purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(1985 Code)
7-223: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a punishment as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
7-224: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same the provisions of the state sales tax code, 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town
sales tax as if here set forth in full. (1985 Code)
7-225: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the town, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance hereby
authorize the town board of trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the town as provided by law. (1985 Code)
7-226: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of town ordinances. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 3
UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
7-301: Utility Tax Levied
7-302: Not To Apply To Franchises
7-303: Payment Of Tax
7-304: Failure To Pay Tax
7-305: Tax Constitutes Lien
7-301: UTILITY TAX LEVIED 1 :
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%) upon the
gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas in the town, which
tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation, or excise tax
levied by such town, all as provided by state law. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 68 OS § 2601 et seq.
7-302: NOT TO APPLY TO FRANCHISES:
The tax levied under this chapter shall, when levied, apply to all persons,
firms, associations, or corporations engaged in business of furnishing gas
within the town limits, except it shall not apply to any person, firm,
association, or corporation operating under a valid franchise from the town.
(1985 Code)
7-303: PAYMENT OF TAX:
The tax levied under this chapter on gas receipts shall be levied for a term of
not less than one year and shall be payable as required y the town board of
trustees and placed in the general revenue fund of the town. (1985 Code)
7-304: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax when levied
shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such town and in
addition thereto, an action may be maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney fees. (1985 Code)
7-305: TAX CONSTITUTES LIEN:
The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the assets
located within the town of any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of selling gas within the town limits. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 4
USE TAX 1
SECTION:
7-401: Citation And Codification
7-402: Definitions
7-403: Excise Tax On Storage, Use Or Other Consumption Of Intangible, Personal
Property Levied
7-404: Purpose Of Revenues
7-405: Exemptions
7-406: Time When Due, Returns, Payment
7-407: Tax Constitutes Debt
7-408: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor
7-409: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor Not Maintaining A Place Of
Business Within State Or Both Within And Without State, Permits
7-410: Revoking Permits
7-411: Remunerative Deductions Allowed Vendors Or Retailers Of Other States
7-412: Interest And Penalties, Delinquency
7-413: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
7-414: Erroneous Payments, Claim For Refund
7-415: Fraudulent Returns
7-416: Records Confidential
7-417: Classification Of Taxpayers
7-418: Subsisting State Permits
7-419: Provisions Cumulative
 
Notes
1 1. Ordinance 285 levied a $0.02 use tax. Ordinance 287 amended to 3 percent
  tax.
7-401: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as TOWN OF SHATTUCK USE TAX.
(Added 1989)
7-402: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma
use tax code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter. In addition thereto the following
words and terms shall be defined as follows:
    TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the town government or the official agency
of the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law,
to administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
   TRANSACTION: Sale. (Added 1989)
7-403: EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE, USE OR OTHER CONSUMPTION OF INTANGIBLE, PERSONAL
PROPERTY LEVIED:
   A.   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming within the town tangible, personal property
purchased or brought into this town, an excise tax on the storage, use or other
consuming within the town of such property at the rate of three percent (3%) of
the purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the town, tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into the town. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the town and assessed to only property purchased outside Oklahoma;
provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against tangible,
personal property intended solely for use outside the town, but which is stored
in the town pending shipment outside the town or which is temporarily retained
in the town for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing, alteration,
maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the tax
authorized herein, may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the town had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
   B.   The town code shall be amended by authorizing and establishing a one
percent (1%) increase of the town’s use tax for a period of two (2) years from
June 28, 2016, when the vote of the people increased the sales tax by one
percent (1%). The sales tax is to be distributed to the Shattuck Hospital
Authority to be used for operations and maintenance of the Newman Memorial
Hospital. The use tax will go into the Use Tax Fund of the town.
   C.   Automatic Change in Use Tax Rate upon Change in Sales Tax Rate: The
rate of excise tax levied pursuant to this section shall automatically adjust
to match the prevailing sales tax rate levied by the municipality, such change
in use tax rate to be effective on the date the change in the prevailing sales
tax rate takes effect, and such change in use tax not requiring further
approval of the governing body of the municipality. (Added 1989; amended 1989;
Ord. 436, 8-8-2016)
7-404: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the town, and any
and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body of the
town for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized.
(Added 1989)
7-405: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply:
      1.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the town by a nonresident individual visiting in this town for his
or her personal use or enjoyment while within the town;
      2.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
      3.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
on which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma use
tax code and the town of Shattuck use tax, has been paid by the person using
such tangible, personal property in the town, whether such tax was levied under
the laws of Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of the United States.
If any article of tangible, personal property has already been subjected to a
tax by Oklahoma or any other state or municipality in respect to its sale or
use, in an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma use tax code
and town of Shattuck use tax, the provision of this chapter shall also apply to
it by a rate measured by the difference only between the rate provided by both
the Oklahoma use tax code and the town of Shattuck use tax, and the rate by
which the previous tax upon the sale or use was computed. Provided, that no
credit shall be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality, if that
state or municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in Oklahoma and
the town;
      4.   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used
by persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the town, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons to the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the town. Provided, this exemption
shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated into, and
is directly used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to taxation
under the sales tax code of the town. The term "manufacturing plants" means
those establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing
operations, and generally recognized as such;
      5.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now
specifically exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the town;
      6.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the town by an individual with intent to become a resident of this
town where such personal property is for such individual's personal use or
enjoyment;
      7.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; or
      8.   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into
this town for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold. (Added
1989)
7-406: TIME WHEN DUE, RETURNS, PAYMENT:
The tax levied by this chapter is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state of Oklahoma. (Added 1989)
7-407: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (Added 1989)
7-408: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR:
Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and without
the state, and making sales of tangible, personal property from a place of
business outside this state for use in this town shall at the time of making
such sales collect the use tax levied by this chapter from the purchaser and
give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by
the tax commission, if the tax commission shall, by regulation, require such
receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the tax commission the name
and address of all his agents operating in this town and location of any and
all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of business in the
town. (Added 1989)
7-409: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR NOT MAINTAINING A PLACE OF
BUSINESS WITHIN STATE OR BOTH WITHIN AND WITHOUT STATE, PERMITS:
The tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a
place of business within this state but who makes sales of tangible, personal
property for use in this town and by the out of state place of business of any
retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and without this
state and making sales of tangible, personal property such out of state place
of business for use in this town. Such retailer or vendor may be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the tax commission in such
manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe.
When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect
the tax upon all tangible, personal property sold to his knowledge for use
within this town. Such authority and permit may be cancelled when at any time
the tax commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected
from the person using such property in this town. Provided, however, that in
all instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the
purchaser within this town by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or
vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales
or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable town sales tax at
the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported under
taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (Added 1989)
7-410: REVOKING PERMITS:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or
the Oklahoma use tax code or any orders, rules or regulations of the tax
commission, the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel the corporation's license to do business in this
state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this chapter, the Oklahoma use tax code, or any
orders, rules or regulations of the tax commission. (Added 1989)
7-411: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code; and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the code for the collection of state use taxes. (Added 1989)
7-412: INTEREST AND PENALTIES, DELINQUENCY:
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this
chapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as herein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this chapter. Provided, that the failure
or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and
remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this chapter shall cause
such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a
period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his claim to any
discount allowed under this chapter. (Added 1989)
7-413: WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer's or vendor's failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 227, and to accomplish the purposes of this section the applicable
provisions of section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this chapter. (Added 1989)
7-414: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS, CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the town use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of section
227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter. (Added
1989)
7-415: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the offending taxpayer
shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (Added 1989)
7-416: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the town use tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 of
the state use tax code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town
use tax as is herein set forth in full. (Added 1989)
7-417: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(Added 1989)
7-418: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the tax commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are for the purpose of this chapter
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional town permit for the same purpose. (Added 1989)
7-419: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the town ordinances. (Added 1989)
CHAPTER 5
HOTEL TAX
SECTION:
7-501: Title
7-502: Definitions
7-503: Tax Rate
7-504: Exemptions
7-505: Tax To Be Separately Designated On Bills
7-506: Operator Responsible For Collection
7-507: Records To Be Kept
7-508: Returns
7-509: Payment Of Tax
7-510: Bond Required
7-511: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
7-512: Refunds
7-513: Notices
7-514: Remedies Exclusive
7-515: General Powers Of The Director
7-516: Administration Of Oaths; Compelling Testimony
7-517: Certificates Of Registration
7-518: Delinquent Taxes
7-519: Interest And Penalties
7-520: Discounts
7-521: Use Of Funds
7-522: Records Confidential
7-523: Fraudulent Returns
7-524: Amendments
7-525: Provisions Cumulative
7-526: Administration Fee
7-527: Nullification And Discharge Of Duties
7-528: Effective Date
7-529: Penalty
7-501: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the SHATTUCK HOTEL ROOM TAX ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-502: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
COMMITTEE: Members to be determined by the town of Shattuck board of trustees.
DIRECTOR: The town clerk of Shattuck, or a duly authorized agent of the town
clerk.
HOTEL: Any building or buildings, structures, trailer or other facility in
which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations in
which five (5) or more rooms are used for the accommodation of such "guests",
whether the rooms are in one or several structures. The term shall include
hotels, apartment hotels, motels, tourist homes, bed and breakfast inns, houses
or courts, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, trailer
motels, dormitory space where bed space is rented to individuals or groups,
apartment not occupied by permanent residents, and all other facilities where
rooms or sleeping facilities or spaces are furnished for a consideration. The
term shall not include hospitals, sanatoriums, or nursing homes.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession or the right to the use or possession of any
room or rooms in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the
furnishings or to the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.
OCCUPANT: A person, who for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right
to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel, under any lease,
concession, permit, right to access, license to use, or other agreement.
OPERATOR: A person or legal entity operating a hotel in this town, including,
but not limited to, the owner, proprietor, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in
possession, court appointed receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, licensee, or any
other person otherwise operating such hotel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any occupant who, during the current term occupancy,
occupies or has the right of occupancy of any room or rooms in a hotel for
thirty (30) or more consecutive days.
RENT: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
RETURN: Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
ROOM: Any room or rooms of any kind in any part or portion of a hotel which is
available for or let out for use or possessed for any purpose other than a
place of assembly. As used herein, "place of assembly" means a room or space
which is legally capable under this code of being occupied by seventy five (75)
or more persons and which is used for educational, recreational or amusement
purposes and shall include: dance halls, cabarets, nightclubs, restaurants, any
room or space for public or private banquets, feasts, socials, card parties or
weddings, lodge and meeting halls or rooms, skating rinks, gymnasiums, swimming
pools, billiard, bowling and table tennis rooms, halls or rooms used for public
or private catering purposes, funeral parlors, markets, recreational rooms,
concert halls, broadcasting studios, and all other places of similar type of
occupancy.
TAX: The tax levied pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-503: TAX RATE:
There is hereby levied an excise tax of six percent (6%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room
or rooms in a hotel in this town except that the tax shall not be imposed where
the rent is less than the rate of three dollars ($3.00) per day. (Ord. 415, 4-
8-2013)
7-504: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following guests shall be exempt from the tax levied in this
chapter:
      1.   Permanent residents as defined in section
7-502 of this chapter;
      2.   Representatives of the United States government or any agency or
division thereof while on official business;
      3.   Representatives of the state of Oklahoma or any political
subdivision thereof while on official business.
   B.   Every operator shall document the basis for which exemptions are made
pursuant to this section on a form provided by the director, or if no form is
provided, in sufficient detail as to be verified by audit by the director.
(Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-505: TAX TO BE SEPARATELY DESIGNATED ON BILLS:
The operator shall separately designate, charge and show the tax on all bills,
statements, receipts, or any other evidence of charges or payment of rent for
occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-506: OPERATOR RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLECTION:
The operator shall be responsible for the collection of the tax from the
occupant and shall be liable to the town for the tax. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-507: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in such form as the
director may require. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination at any time upon demand by the director, or a duly authorized agent
or employee of the town, and shall be preserved for a period of three (3)
years. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-508: RETURNS:
   A.   Every operator shall file with the director a return of occupancy and
of rents and of the taxes payable thereon within thirty (30) days from the
periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year.
If the payment date falls on a day the office of the town clerk is closed, the
payment period shall run to the next regular business day the office of the
town clerk is open for business.
   B.   The director may permit or require returns to be made by shorter or
longer periods and upon such dates as he may specify. The form of return shall
be prescribed by the director and shall contain such information as he may deem
necessary for the proper administration of this chapter. The director may
require amended returns to be filed within twenty (20) days after notice and to
contain the information specified in the notice. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-509: PAYMENT OF TAX:
At the time of filing a return of occupancy and of rents, each operator shall
pay to the director the taxes imposed by this chapter upon the rents included
in such return, as well as all other monies collected by the operator acting or
purporting to act under the provisions of this chapter. All the taxes for the
period for which a return is required to be filed shall be due from the
operator and payable to the director on or before the date fixed for the filing
of the return for such period without regard to whether a return is filed or
whether the return which is filed correctly shows the amount of rents and the
taxes due thereon. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-510: BOND REQUIRED:
Where the director believes that any operator is about to cease business, leave
the state, or remove or dissipate assets, or for any other similar reason he
deems it necessary in order to protect revenues under this chapter, he may
require the operator to file with the town a bond issued by a surety company
authorized to transact business in this state in such amount as the director
may fix to secure the payment of any tax or penalties and interest due, or
which may become due from the operator. In the event that the director
determines that an operator is to file such bond, he shall give notice to the
operator specifying the amount of bond required. The operator shall file the
bond within five (5) days after the delivery or mailing of such notice unless
within the five (5) days the operator shall request in writing a hearing before
the town council or its designee, at which time the propriety and amount of the
bond shall be determined by the town council or its designee. Such
determination shall be final and shall be compiled within fifteen (15) days
thereafter. In lieu of such bond, securities approved by the director, or cash
in such amount as he may prescribe, may be deposited with the director. The
director may at any time after five (5) days' notice to the operator, apply the
bond, cash or other security to any tax or penalties due and for that purpose
the securities may be sold at private or public sale. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-511: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
If a return required by this chapter is not filed, or if a return when filed is
incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by the
director from such information as may be obtainable and, if necessary, the tax
may be estimated on the basis of external indices, such as number of rooms,
location, scale of rents, comparable rents, types of accommodations and
services, number of employees, or other factors. Written notice of such
assessments shall be delivered to the office of the hotel. Such assessment
shall finally and irrevocably fix and determine the tax unless the person or
entity against whom it is assessed, within thirty (30) days after the giving of
notice of such assessment, shall apply in writing to the town council or its
designee for a hearing or unless the director on his own motion shall reassess
the same. After such hearing, the town council or its designee shall give
written notice of its determination to the person or entity against whom the
tax is assessed and such determination shall be final. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-512: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure: The director shall refund or credit any tax erroneously
collected if written application to the director for the refund shall be made
within two (2) years from the date of payment. For like causes, and in the same
period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative and the order of the
director. Whenever a refund is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated in
writing. The application may also be made by the person who has collected and
paid such tax to the director providing that the application is made within two
(2) years of the payment of the occupant to the operator, but no refund of
money shall be made to the operator until he has repaid to the occupant the
amount for which the application is made. The director, in lieu of any refund
required to be made, may allow credit therefor on payment due from the
applicant.
   B.   Determination And Hearing: Upon application for a refund, the director
may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such investigation as he
deems necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the director
shall give notice thereof to the applicant. The determination shall be final
unless the applicant within ninety (90) days after such notice shall apply in
writing to the town council for a hearing. After the hearing, the town council
shall give written notice of its decision to the applicant. (Ord. 415, 4-8-
2013)
7-513: NOTICES:
Notices provided for under this chapter shall be deemed to have been given when
notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the United
States mail to the last known address of the operator. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-514: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this chapter shall be exclusive remedies available to
any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 415,
4-8-2013)
7-515: GENERAL POWERS OF THE DIRECTOR:
In addition to all other powers granted to the director, he is hereby
authorized and empowered:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
carrying out of this chapter for the purposes hereof;
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing returns for a period not
exceeding sixty (60) days; and for cause shown to waive, remit or reduce
penalties or interest;
   C.   To delegate his functions hereunder to an assistant or other employee
or employees of the town;
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the taxes imposed
by this chapter;
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents.
(Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-516: ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS; COMPELLING TESTIMONY:
The director shall have the power to administer oaths; subpoena and require the
attendance of witnesses, the production of books, papers and documents; and
take affidavits in relation to any matter or proceeding in the exercise of the
powers and duties of the director or town council under this chapter. (Ord.
415, 4-8-2013)
7-517: CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION:
Every operator shall file with the director a certificate of registration in a
form prescribed by the director within three (3) days after commencement or
opening. The director shall, within five (5) days after such registration,
issue, without charge, to each operator a certificate of authority empowering
such operator to collect the tax from the occupant and duplicates thereof for
each additional hotel. Each certificate of authority shall be permanently
displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be seen and comes to the
notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such certificates shall
be nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to
the director upon the cessation of business at the hotel named, or upon its
sale or transfer. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-518: DELINQUENT TAXES:
The tax levied by this chapter shall be due and payable at the time filing of
the returns provided for in this chapter is required. All taxes not paid within
five (5) business days from the time they become due shall be delinquent. (Ord.
415, 4-8-2013)
7-519: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   If any tax levied or assessed by this chapter becomes delinquent, the
person or entity responsible and liable for such tax shall pay a penalty equal
to ten percent (10%) of the unpaid tax and interest on such unpaid tax and
penalty shall accrue at the rate of 1.5 percent per month on the unpaid balance
from the date of delinquency.
   B.   The town may bring a civil suit to enforce payment of any past due tax
levied or assessed pursuant to this chapter in addition to conviction
hereunder. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-520: DISCOUNTS:
   A.   In order to remunerate an operator for keeping tax records, filing
reports and remitting taxes when due, a three percent (3%) discount shall be
allowed on the total taxes paid prior to the time the tax becomes delinquent.
   B.   This discount shall not apply to delinquent taxes or interest payments.
(Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-521: USE OF FUNDS:
All taxes collected pursuant to the provision of this chapter shall be set
aside and paid over to the Shattuck tourism committee which shall have the duty
to encourage, promote and foster tourism, recreation, conventions, special
events and promote investment in facilities and parks for the development of
tourism and special events within the town and for other purposes as the board
may determine to be necessary. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-522: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the hotel tax is legislatively recognized and declared, and
to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205 of the
state sales tax code, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the
Shattuck hotel room tax as if herein set forth. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-523: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
The wilful failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances
therein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the
purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this chapter shall be an offense, and upon conviction
thereof the offending taxpayer shall be subject to a fine of not more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00), including costs. Each day is to be considered a
separate offense to be charged severally. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-524: AMENDMENTS:
The people of Shattuck, by their approval of this chapter at the election
provided by ordinance, hereby authorize the town board of trustees by
ordinances duly enacted to make such administrative and technical changes or
additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcement of this
chapter as may be necessary or proper for the efficiency and fairness, except
that the rate of the tax herein provided shall not be changed without approval
of the qualified electors of the town as provided by law. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-525: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and
all other taxing provisions of town ordinances. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-526: ADMINISTRATION FEE:
The town is authorized by this section to deduct a sum from this especially
collected tax to use for the costs of collection and administration, equal to
ten percent (10%) of the total revenue accruing from the tax over an annual
collection period. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-527: NULLIFICATION AND DISCHARGE OF DUTIES:
   A.   This tax is levied exclusively for the purpose of financing a committee
of the town of Shattuck, for the purpose of the tourism development of the
town, and the term of this tax shall be directly and totally dependent upon the
existence of said committee. If for any reason the agreements from which the
committee derives its existence are nullified or revoked, or for any reason are
held to be no longer the governing principles of the committee, the collection
and/or disbursement of the revenues from this tax shall cease immediately,
provided the town shall honor all their existing and lawful commitments of said
committee.
   B.   The revenues of the tax created by this chapter are for the sole and
singular source of funding for the committee created herein. If for any reason
or act of any party or parties, the funding of the committee shall be either
partially or totally reduced, whether it be a temporary or permanent state, all
parties charged with responsibilities relating to the administration of the
committee shall be discharged from any and all responsibilities whether they be
creations of ordinance or contract. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-528: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective upon approval of a majority of the
registered voters of Shattuck voting on same in the manner prescribed by this
code and applicable state law, both inclusive. The tax provided for in this
chapter shall be applicable to hotel rooms rented for May 1, 2013, and all
subsequent days, subject to the approval of this chapter. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
7-529: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation, who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements
thereof, shall be guilty of an offense. (Ord. 415, 4-8-2013)
PART 8
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Weeds And Trash   1
Food Regulations   2
Nuisances   3
Junked, Abandoned Vehicles And Equipment   4
Enforcement And Penalty   5
CHAPTER 1
WEEDS AND TRASH
SECTION:
8-101: Definitions
8-102: Nuisance Declared
8-103: Removal Required
8-104: Notice And Order To Cut, Remove Or Destroy
8-105: Consent; Hearing Waiver
8-106: Hearing By Board
8-107: Findings; Right Of Entry; Removal
8-108: Cost; Statement
8-109: Payment; Lien
8-110: Administrative Officer; Appeal
8-111: Subsequent Accumulations Of Trash Or Excessive Weed Or Grass Growth
Declared A Nuisance
8-112: Zoned Property
8-113: Penalty
8-114: Provisions Cumulative
8-101: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CLEANING: The removal of trash from property.
LITTERING: Throwing any trash, refuse, wastepaper, tin can, bottles or any
other object or substance whatever upon the public streets, alleys, roadways
and sidewalks upon any real property owned or occupied by another or upon
public ground in this town.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal, or waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discarded, or abandoned.
WEED: Includes, but is not limited to, poison ivy, poison oak, or poison sumac
and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
   A.   Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs or
produce for human consumption, or grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community, or a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the property, or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of the weeds,
   B.   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash,
   C.   Harbors rodents or vermin,
   D.   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors,
   E.   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard, or
   F.   Is dead or diseased.
The term "weed" shall not include tended crops on land for agricultural use
which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from a parcel zoned
for other than agricultural use.
It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract or parcel of land
situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the town to allow
trash or weeds to grow, stand or accumulate upon such premises. It is the duty
of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy any such trash or weeds.
The town of Shattuck may cause property within the corporate limits to be
cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the
following procedures. (Ord. 428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-102: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   Weeds which are allowed to stand at any season of the year upon any
lot, tract or parcel of land, or along the sidewalk, street or unpaved alley
adjacent to such lot, tract or parcel of land, are hereby declared to
constitute a nuisance.
   B.   This section shall not apply to land zoned or used for agricultural use
which is more than one hundred fifty feet (150') distant from any occupied
commercial or residential subdivision lot, tract or parcel of land. (Ord. 428,
9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-103: REMOVAL REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any owner or person otherwise in possession or control of
any lot, tract or parcel of land, to allow trash or weeds to grow, stand upon
such premises, or along the sidewalk, street or unpaved alley adjacent to such
premises. It is the duty of such owner to cut, remove or destroy any and all
such weeds or grass on such premises. (Ord. 428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-104: NOTICE AND ORDER TO CUT, REMOVE OR DESTROY:
   A.   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
Ellis County treasurer's office before the board holds a hearing or takes
action.
   B.   The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property of
trash, or to cut or mow the weeds or grass on the property, and the notice
shall further state that unless such work is performed within ten (10) days of
the date of the notice the work shall be done by the municipality and a notice
of lien shall be filed with the Ellis County clerk against the property for the
cost due and owing the town of Shattuck.
   C.   At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the town of
Shattuck shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which
receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of mailee.
However, if the property owner cannot be located within ten (10) days from the
date of mailing by the town of Shattuck, notice may be given by posting a copy
of the notice on the property or by publication, as defined in 11 Oklahoma
Statutes section
1-102, one time not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by
the town of Shattuck. (Ord. 428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-105: CONSENT; HEARING WAIVER:
The owner of the property may give written consent to the town of Shattuck
authorizing the removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds and/or grass.
By giving said written consent, the owner waives their right to a hearing by
the town of Shattuck. (Ord. 428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-106: HEARING BY BOARD:
A hearing may be held by the board to determine whether the accumulation of
trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused the property to become
detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and the community
or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire hazard to the danger of property.
(Ord. 428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-107: FINDINGS; RIGHT OF ENTRY; REMOVAL:
Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a detriment or
hazard, and the property would be benefited by the removal of such conditions,
the agents of the town of Shattuck are granted the right of entry on the
property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and performance of
the necessary duties as a governmental function of the town of Shattuck.
Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the town clerk
shall file a notice of lien with the county clerk describing the property and
the work performed by the town of Shattuck, and stating that the town of
Shattuck claims a lien on the property for the cleaning or mowing costs. (Ord.
428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-108: COST; STATEMENT:
The board body shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning and mowing and
any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith, including the
cost of notice and mailing. The Shattuck town clerk shall forward by mail to
the property owner specified in section
8-104 of this chapter a statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If
the cleaning and mowing are done by the town of Shattuck, the cost to the
property owner for said cleaning and mowing shall not exceed the actual cost of
the labor, maintenance, and equipment required. If the cleaning and mowing are
done on a private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest
and best bidder. (Ord. 428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-109: PAYMENT; LIEN:
   A.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, then within the next thirty (30) days, the Shattuck
town clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the
Ellis County treasurer and the same shall be levied on the property and
collected by the county treasurer of Ellis County as other taxes authorized by
law.
   B.   Once certified by the Ellis County treasurer, payment may only be made
to the county treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this section. Until
fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation
of the property owner from and after the date the cost is certified to the
Ellis County treasurer.
   C.   In addition the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against
the property from the date the cost is certified to the county treasurer,
coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special
assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and liens against the
property, and the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully paid. At
the time of collection the Ellis County treasurer shall collect a fee of five
dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee shall be deposited to the
credit of the general fund of Ellis County.
   D.   If the Ellis County treasurer and the town of Shattuck agree that the
county treasurer is unable to collect the assessment, the town of Shattuck may
pursue a civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon
by an action in person against the property owner and an action in rem to
foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest, if severed from
the surface interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject
to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving
payment, if any, the Shattuck town clerk shall forward to the Ellis County
treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the lien. (Ord.
428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-110: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER; APPEAL:
The town of Shattuck hereby designates the town administrator or their designee
to carry out the duties of the board body in section
8-104 of this chapter. The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the
town of Shattuck board of trustees, as the municipal governing body, from any
order of the Shattuck town clerk. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written
notice of appeal with the Shattuck town clerk within ten (10) days after the
administrative order is rendered. (Ord. 428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-111: SUBSEQUENT ACCUMULATIONS OF TRASH OR EXCESSIVE WEED OR GRASS GROWTH
DECLARED A NUISANCE:
If a notice is given by town of Shattuck board of trustees to a property owner
ordering the property within the municipal limits to be cleaned of trash and
weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the procedures provided
for in section
8-104 of this chapter, any subsequent accumulations of trash or excessive weed
or grass growth on the property occurring within a six (6) month period may be
declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior
notice to the property owner. At the time of each summary abatement, the town
of Shattuck shall notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs
thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may request a hearing
within ten (10) days after the date of mailing the notice. The notice and
hearing shall be as provided for in section
8-104 of this chapter. Unless otherwise determined at the hearing the cost of
such abatement shall be determined and collected as provided for in sections
8-108 and
8-109 of this chapter. Provided, however, that this section shall not apply if
the records of the Ellis County clerk show that the property was transferred
after notice was given pursuant to section
8-104 of this chapter. (Ord. 428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-112: ZONED PROPERTY:
The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned and used
for agricultural purposes or to railroad property under the jurisdiction of the
Oklahoma corporation commission. However, the town of Shattuck board of
trustees may cause the removal of weeds or trash from property zoned and used
for agricultural purposes pursuant to the provisions of this chapter but only
if such weeds or trash pose a hazard to traffic and are located in, or within
ten (10) yards of, the public right of way at intersections. (Ord. 428, 9-14-
2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-113: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, association, corporation, or copartnership who violates any
of the provisions in this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine and cost as stated in section
1-108, "General Penalty", of this code. (Ord. 428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
8-114: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
nuisance provisions of this code. (Ord. 428, 9-14-2015, eff. 9-14-2015)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
8-201: U.S. Food Service Sanitation Ordinance Adopted
8-202: Milk Ordinance Adopted
8-203: Grade Requirements
8-204: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. 63 OS § 1-1101 et seq.
8-201: U.S. FOOD SERVICE SANITATION ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
   A.   The unabridged form of the latest edition of the "United States public
health service food service sanitation ordinance and code" is hereby adopted
and incorporated in this code by reference. One copy of the sanitation
ordinance and code shall be on file in the office of the town clerk. The
sanitation ordinance and code shall govern the definitions, inspection of food
service establishments, the issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to
operate food service establishments, the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated
or misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of this section. In the
sanitation ordinance and code, however, all parenthetical phrases referring to
grading and the following subsections shall be understood to be deleted:
Subsections H2e, H7 and H8.
   B.   "Health authority" shall mean the director of the county health
department of this county or his designated representative.
   C.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-108 of this code. In addition thereto, any person convicted of violation may
be enjoined from continuing the violation. (1985 Code)
8-202: MILK ORDINANCE ADOPTED 1 :
Part II of the grade A pasteurized milk ordinance, recommended by the U.S.
public health service, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference to
govern and regulate the production, transportation, processing, handling,
sampling, examination, grading, labeling and sale of milk and milk products
sold for ultimate consumption within the town limits or its police
jurisdiction; the inspection of dairy farms, dairy herds and milk plants; the
issuing and revocation of permits to milk producers, haulers and distributors.
At least one copy of the pasteurized milk ordinance shall be filed in the
office of the appropriate official. Sections 9, 16 and 17 of the abridged
ordinance shall be replaced, respectively by sections
8-203 and
8-204 of this chapter. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 63 OS § 1-1301 et seq.; 2 OS § 7-1 et seq.
8-203: GRADE REQUIREMENTS:
Only grade A pasteurized milk and milk products shall be sold to the final
consumer, or to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery stores or similar
establishments; provided that in an emergency, upgraded milk or the grade which
is unknown, may be authorized by the health authority, in which case, such milk
and milk products shall be labeled "ungraded". (1985 Code)
8-204: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES 1
SECTION:
8-301: Nuisance Defined; Public Nuisances; Private Nuisances
8-302: Persons Responsible
8-303: Time Does Not Legalize
8-304: Remedies Against Public Nuisances
8-305: Remedies Against Private Nuisances
8-306: Town Has Power To Define And Summarily Abate Nuisances
8-307: Certain Public Nuisances In The Town Defined
8-308: Summary Abatement Of Nuisances
8-309: Abatement By Suit In District Court
8-310: Nuisance Unlawful
8-311: Health Nuisances; Abatement
8-312: Procedure Cumulative
8-313: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. 50 OS § et seq.
8-301: NUISANCE DEFINED; PUBLIC NUISANCES; PRIVATE NUISANCES:
   A.   A nuisance is unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty or
is any thing or condition which either:
      1.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends decency;
      3.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street or other public property; or
      4.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   B.   A public nuisance is one which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   C.   Every nuisance not included in subsection B of this section is a
private nuisance. (1985 Code)
8-302: PERSONS RESPONSIBLE:
Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is liable
therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it. (1985 Code)
8-303: TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE:
No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right. (1985 Code)
8-304: REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   The remedies against a public nuisance are:
      1.   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
      2.   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
      3.   Civil action; or
      4.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 12;
or
         b.   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance. (1985 Code)
8-305: REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES:
   A.   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
      1.   Civil action; or
      2.   Abatement:
         a.   By person injured as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes sections 14
and 15; or
         b.   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance. (1985 Code)
8-306: TOWN HAS POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES:
As provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 16, the town has power to determine
what is and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and,
for the protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water
supply, outside of its corporate limits. Whenever it is practical to do so, the
town has the power summarily to abate any such nuisance after notice to the
owner and an opportunity for him to be heard, if this can be done. (1985 Code)
8-307: CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES IN THE TOWN DEFINED:
   A.   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      1.   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink; or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      2.   The sale, offering for sale or furnishing of intoxicating liquor in
violation of the state law or ordinances of the town; or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinance of the town;
      3.   The exposure, display, sale or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold or distributed;
      4.   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punchboards or otherwise;
      5.   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse or other immoral acts are practiced;
      6.   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law or
ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      7.   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the town; or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      8.   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      9.   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
of ordinary sensibilities; or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
      10.   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      11.   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      12.   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow to
fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      13.   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      14.   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse or
other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs, and the premises on which such exist;
      15.   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay or other condition;
      16.   Any pit, hole or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      17.   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      18.   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety or welfare;
      19.   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district; or
      20.   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
The above enumeration of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative and not
limit other provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private
nuisances either in more general or more specific terms. (1985 Code)
8-308: SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of one or more
persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances may be
such as to justify, and even to require the mayor or other appropriate officer
or agency of the town government to take immediate and proper action summarily
to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until more
deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   B.   The chief of the fire department, the chief of police, the town
attorney, the building inspector, the electrical inspector, the plumbing
inspector or any other officer subordinate to the mayor may submit through or
with the consent of the mayor to the town board of trustees, a statement as to
the existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the town or law,
and a request or recommendation that it be abated. The mayor himself, the
health officer and board of trustees or any resident or residents of the town
may submit such a statement and request a recommendation to the board of
trustees.
   C.   The board of trustees shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance is a nuisance in fact. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the
subject, the board of trustees shall have power to subpoena and examine
witnesses, books, papers and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the
nuisance or have it abated, the board of trustees shall give notice of a
hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any property concerned and an
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given. Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be
given in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if their names and
addresses are known; but, if the names or addresses are not known, and the
peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation
within the town.
   D.   If the board of trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact exist it
shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, the board of trustees shall direct the mayor to abate the nuisance or to
have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 Oklahoma
Statutes section 16. The town clerk shall send a statement of the cost of such
summary abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the town
collectible as other debts to the town may be collected. (1985 Code)
8-309: ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT:
In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance, the town
may bring suit in the district court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 Oklahoma Statutes section 17. (1985 Code)
8-310: NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, any owner,
lessee, or other person to create or maintain a nuisance within the town or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his control within the town.
(1985 Code)
8-311: HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section 1-1011,
the health officer shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any
private premises in the town to remove from such premises, at his own expense,
any source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of
insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any
other condition adversely affecting the public health, within twenty four (24)
hours, or within such other time as may be directed in writing and may be
served personally on the owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent
thereof, by the health officer or by a policeman or a copy thereof may be left
at the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant or agent, if known and
within the state. If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the
owner, occupant or agent is unknown, or is without the state, the order may be
served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town.
   B.   If the order is not complied with, the health officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the town clerk, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance shall be
added to the water bill or other town utility bill of the owner or occupant if
he is a user of water from the town water system or such other utility service.
The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility bill to which it is added
and shall become due and payable, and subject to the same regulations relating
to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself. If such owner or occupant
is not a user of any town utility service, such cost, after certification to
the town clerk, may be collected in any manner in which any other debt due the
town may be collected. (1985 Code)
8-312: PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE:
The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and by
other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative onto any other
penalties or procedures authorized. (1985 Code)
8-313: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation found violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 4
JUNKED, ABANDONED VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
8-401: Definitions
8-402: Storage
8-403: Abandonment Or Parking
8-404: Impounding
8-405: Penalties
8-401: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
NUISANCE: Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in value of other property in the neighborhood in which
such premises are located. This includes, but is not limited to, the keeping
of, or the scattering over the premises of any of the following:
   A.   Lumber, junk, trash, or debris; or
   B.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, or containers.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the town which is not a street, highway, or
alleyway.
SHELTERED: Surrounded by some type of permanent structure which prevents public
view or access.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLES: A machine pulled, pushed, or self-propelled by power or other than
human power designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads,
runners, or slides and transport persons or property or pull machinery and
shall include, without limitations, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles,
and tractors. (1985 Code)
8-402: STORAGE:
Unsheltered storage or old, unused, stripped, junked, and other automobiles not
in good and safe operating condition, and any other vehicles, machinery,
implements, or equipment, and personal property of any kind which is no longer
safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured for period of
thirty (30) days or more within the limits of this town, is hereby declared to
be a nuisance and dangerous to the public safety. (1985 Code)
8-403: ABANDONMENT OR PARKING:
   A.   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the town and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the town for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
   B.   No person shall leave any junked or partially dismantled, nonoperating,
wrecked machinery, implements, or equipment, and personal property on any
street, highway, or alleyway within the town. (1985 Code)
8-404: IMPOUNDING:
The chief of police, or any member of his department, is hereby authorized to
remove or have removed any vehicle, machinery, implements, or equipment, and
personal property left at any place within the town which reasonably appears to
be in violation of this chapter, or lost, stolen, or unclaimed. Such vehicle or
item shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of as provided by
law. (1985 Code)
8-405: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an offense. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
SECTION:
8-501: County Health Department Designated To Enforce Health Ordinances
8-502: Obstructing Health Officer
8-503: Quarantine; Violations
8-504: Penalty
8-501: COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT DESIGNATED TO ENFORCE HEALTH ORDINANCES:
Anywhere in this chapter where the word or words "health officer" are used it
shall be construed to mean the director of the county health department or his
duly designated representative. It is the intent and purpose of the mayor and
town board of trustees to delegate the enforcement of the health ordinances of
this town as set out in this section and any such decisions rendered under this
section shall be subject to review by the governing board upon an appeal from
an offender. (1985 Code)
8-502: OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct or interfere with any health
officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of this
town. (1985 Code)
8-503: QUARANTINE; VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully violate or refuse or omit to comply
with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule or regulation of the board
of health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order, direction,
prohibition, rule or regulation. (1985 Code)
8-504: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any law or code
adopted by reference in this chapter is guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violations. (1985 Code)
PART 9
LICENSING AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Reserved   1
Peddlers And Solicitors   2
Medical Marijuana   3
CHAPTER 1
RESERVED
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
9-201: Permits Required
9-202: Applications For Permit
9-203: Fees For Permit
9-204: Exclusions
9-205: Exhibition Of Permits
9-206: Street Sales
9-207: Duty Of Police To Enforce
9-208: Penalty
9-201: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No person, firm, corporation nor any agency or employee thereof shall engage in
the business of peddling, selling or soliciting without obtaining a permit.
(Ord. 303, 9-9-1996)
9-202: APPLICATIONS FOR PERMIT:
Applicants for a permit shall file with the town clerk in duplicate a sworn
application in writing on a form to be furnished by said clerk, which shall
give the following information:
   A.   Name and brief description of applicant;
   B.   Address, both legal and local;
   C.   Nature of business and kind of goods to be sold;
   D.   If employed by another, name and address of employer;
   E.   Length of time desired to do business;
   F.   Description and license number of vehicle;
   G.   Oklahoma sales tax number or social security number;
and shall further have in possession a currently valid Oklahoma sales tax
permit and furnish the same to the clerk for copying and making a part of the
application and shall further sign an agreement to pay appropriate sales tax on
all merchandise sold within the town of Shattuck monthly to the Oklahoma tax
commission as required by law. (Ord. 303, 9-9-1996)
9-203: FEES FOR PERMIT:
Fees are as follows:
   A.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day from sunup to sundown, Monday
through Saturday, regardless of time of day permit is purchased. (Ord. 379, 1-
12-2009)
9-204: EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   The following shall apply for permit but are excluded from payment of a
fee:
      1.   Merchants having a fixed or established place of business in town
and their employees. For the purpose of this chapter, a "fixed or established
place of business" means a place of business opened, owned, and operated for
the purpose of carrying on a permanent business but does not include any place
of business operated only for a temporary period of time.
      2.   All public lectures and concerts.
      3.   Representatives or brokers of insurance agencies having a fixed or
established office or place of business as defined above, in Ellis County, or
an adjoining county.
      4.   Persons engaged in the type of selling commonly known as garage or
yard sales provided that a permit shall not be issued for a sale of this type
to be held in the same location for more than three (3) consecutive days in any
one month.
      5.   Bona fide residents of the county selling fruits, vegetables, or
other farm products which were produced on land within the county owned or
controlled by such vendor or a principal for which he is an agent.
   B.   The following shall be exempt from all provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Newsboys.
      2.   Organized youth, educational, religious, charitable, or municipal
organizations conducting sales or fundraising campaigns.
      3.   Persons engaged in selling at wholesale to retail dealers. (Ord.
303, 9-9-1996)
9-205: EXHIBITION OF PERMITS:
Applicants shall be required to exhibit permit at the request of any citizen.
(Ord. 303, 9-9-1996)
9-206: STREET SALES:
It shall be prohibited for anyone to have a stand or park a vehicle upon Main
Street between the railroad tracks and Sixth Street. (Ord. 303, 9-9-1996)
9-207: DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE:
It shall be the duty of any police officer to require the exhibition of a
permit from anyone selling, peddling, or soliciting, and to enforce the
provisions of this chapter against any person found to be in violation of the
same. (Ord. 303, 9-9-1996)
9-208: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Ord. 303, 9-9-1996; amd. Ord. 379, 1-12-2009)
CHAPTER 3
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
9-301: Retail Marijuana Establishments
9-302: Commercial Medical Marijuana Facilities
9-303: Reserved
9-304: Marijuana Growing Facilities For Personal Medical Use; Security
9-305: Smell Or Noxious Odor
9-301: RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   All operators of retail marijuana establishments are required to obtain
a retail marijuana establishment permit from the Town Clerk. Retail marijuana
establishments is defined as any retail marijuana establishment licensed by the
State of Oklahoma.
   B.   The Board of Trustees will establish by resolution a fee to obtain the
retail marijuana establishment permit. The fee shall be used to offset
Municipal expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection,
administration and enforcement of retail marijuana establishments. (Ord. 449,
8-13-2018)
   C.   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicants where the proposed location would be located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any private or public preschool, elementary, secondary,
vocational, or trade school, college or university. (Ord. 454, 11-13-2018)
   D.   For the distance requirements outlined in this section, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in
subsection C of this section is located to the nearest property line of the
building or unit in which the proposed retail marijuana establishment would be
located.
   E.   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   F.   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail marijuana establishments permit.
   G.   It is the intent of the Town of Shattuck Oklahoma that nothing in this
chapter be construed to: 1) allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers
or causes a public nuisance; 2) allow the use of marijuana for non-medical
purposes; 3) allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
State law. (Ord. 449, 8-13-2018)
9-302: COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES:
   A.   Commercial medical marijuana growing, processing, and/or storage
facilities are hereby allowed within the Municipal boundaries of Shattuck,
Oklahoma upon compliance with applicable State codes, issuance of commercial
medical marijuana growing, processing, and/or storage facility permit, and
compliance with the following additional provisions:
      1.   Commercial medical marijuana growing, processing and/or storage
facilities shall only be located within Commercial, Industrial or Agriculture
Zoning Districts. Consideration for any other zone may only be considered upon
the granting of a zoning variance pursuant to Planning and Zoning Codes and
regulations.
      2.   Conditions of operation shall be in accordance with State Statutes.
      3.   The Board of Trustees will establish, by resolution, a fee to obtain
the commercial medical marijuana growing, processing, and/or storage facility
permit issued by the Town Clerk of Shattuck, Oklahoma. (Ord. 455, 5-13-2019)
9-303: RESERVED:
(Ord. 455, 5-13-2019)
9-304: MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL MEDICAL USE; SECURITY:
Regulations governing this section shall be in accordance with State Statutes.
(Ord. 455, 5-13-2019)
9-305: SMELL OR NOXIOUS ODOR:
The smell or noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of marijuana by a
person possessing a valid State issued medical marijuana license shall be
treated as a public nuisance. (Ord. 449, 8-13-2018)
PART 10
OFFENSES AND CRIMES
Offenses In General   1
Offenses Against Property   2
Offenses Against The Public   3
Offenses Against The Health, Welfare
And Morals   4
Offenses Against Persons   5
Offenses Against Public Authority   6
Penalties   7
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES IN GENERAL
SECTION:
10-101: Attempts To Commit An Offense
10-102: Aiding In An Offense
10-101: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself. (1985 Code)
10-102: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or misdemeanor, and
punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
10-201: Petit Larceny Prohibited
10-202: Injuring Automobiles And Other Vehicles
10-203: Destroying Or Injuring Buildings And Other Property
10-204: Placing Signs On Property Of Another
10-205: Throwing Or Shooting At Persons Or Property
10-206: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
10-207: Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land
10-208: Illegal Entrance
10-209: Throwing Advertising On Street Prohibited
10-210: Throwing Injurious Substances
10-211: Injury To Plants And Trees
10-212: Public Streets And Trees
10-213: Trespass Prohibited
10-214: Parking On Property Of Another
10-215: Interference With Fire Hydrants
10-201: PETIT LARCENY PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not exceeding
fifty dollars ($50.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to
deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property
from the "person" of another.
   B.   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 21 OS §§ 1704, 1706.
10-202: INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter,
occupy, loiter in, or injure any automobile or other vehicle belonging to
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (1985
Code)
10-203: DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (1985 Code)
10-204: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark,
write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill,
placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (1985
Code)
10-205: THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot any
stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light
or other property of another (whether public or private), except in case where
such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property. (1985
Code)
10-206: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him to consume or use the gas,
water or electricity without it passing through the meter or any other way so
as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person to damage,
molest, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or other part of
any public utility, including any telegraph or telephone system. (1985 Code)
10-207: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND:
It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of land
within the town without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or to
erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without such
license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the town, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other structure
without authority of law or ordinance. (1985 Code)
10-208: ILLEGAL ENTRANCE:
It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into an
area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure is
public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or any
notice or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. It is
unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another after having been
given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or person in charge.
(1985 Code)
10-209: THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter. (1985 Code)
10-210: THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES:
It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw upon
the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive or
other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine, with
intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal. (1985 Code)
10-211: INJURY TO PLANTS AND TREES:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and without authority cut, pull,
pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the town, or wilfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or wilfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground; any
person violating this section, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense. (1985 Code)
10-212: PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the town;
      2.   Attach any guywires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree;
      3.   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the town;
      4.   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the town; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
      5.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the town inspector so to do.
Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done under the
supervision of the street superintendent or town engineer. (1985 Code)
10-213: TRESPASS PROHIBITED:
   A.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall be defined
as follows:
    PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
   TRESPASS: Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the implied
consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. "Trespass" shall
also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in lawful
possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or the
agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of the
premises. "Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer. The
provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons, including employees,
whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in
lawful possession of such premises nor shall the provisions of this sentence
apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such premises.
"Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of returning to private property
before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next business
day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this
definition.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private property. (1985
Code)
10-214: PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by
authority of law or ordinance. (1985 Code)
10-215: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person except one duly authorized by the town
utility personnel or a member of the fire department to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any fire
hydrant or stopcock belonging to the town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant by
placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in any other
manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
SECTION:
10-301: Disturbing The Peace
10-302: Insulting Signs; Literature Or Language
10-303: Fireworks Regulated
10-304: Storing Or Keeping Explosives
10-305: Possession Of Weapons On Certain Posted Public Property; Exception
10-306: Reckless Conduct
10-307: Discharging Firearms; Exceptions
10-308: Loud Noise Or Music Prohibited; Amplified Sound
10-301: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      3.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      4.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      5.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or not
at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      6.   Holding an unlawful assembly of two (2) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      7.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by rude,
indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
      8.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      9.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      10.   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public. (1985 Code)
10-302: INSULTING SIGNS; LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the town to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common acceptance
is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the town, and which is
calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully use, utter, publish,
circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or insulting language or
literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (1985 Code)
10-303: FIREWORKS REGULATED:
   A.   Defining Fireworks: For the purpose of this section, "fireworks" shall
have the meaning prescribed by State law, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1622.
   B.   Declaration: It is hereby declared that it is to the best interest of
the incorporated Town of Shattuck, Oklahoma, that the use of fireworks within
the incorporated limits of said Town be restricted, and that a penalty for
violation of said restrictions be provided.
   C.   Sale: All fireworks vendors shall post Town rules and regulations at
their place of business and make known to buyers when they may discharge
fireworks within the Town limits.
   D.   Restrictions: The use of all fireworks within the incorporated limits
of the Town is hereby prohibited at all times, except as hereinafter provided.
   E.   Use: Except as stated herein, fireworks may be used within the
incorporated limits of the Town between July 1st and July 4th between the hours
of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. only. At no time
shall fireworks be used within two (2) blocks of any hospital or clinic, nor on
Main Street, nor within two (2) blocks of any religious house of worship,
during times of worship, regardless of the day or hour of day.
   F.   Penalty: Upon conviction for violation of this section the violator
shall pay a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and costs; any
natural parent or legal guardian or any person responsible for the keep and
custody of any minor who might violate this section shall be held a violator
under this section and be subject to said fine and costs. (Ord. 439, 8-14-2017)
10-304: STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES:
It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the Town any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, or any other highly explosive material or substance of
any kind without having first complied with the laws of the State and Town for
the purpose of selling, storing or keeping such items. (1985 Code)
10-305: POSSESSION OF WEAPONS ON CERTAIN POSTED PUBLIC PROPERTY; EXCEPTION:
   A.   No person, other than persons exempted in subsection B of this section,
shall enter or remain on any public property, on which signs have been posted
prohibiting the possession of any weapons on said public property, who has
possession of any weapon.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to commissioned peace
officers while on duty.
   C.   Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus costs. (Ord. 304, 9-23-
1996)
10-306: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in his
possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such actions consisting of creating a
situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great bodily harm to
another, and demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety of another
person. (1985 Code)
10-307: DISCHARGING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS 1 :
No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the Town except when doing
so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of
another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law or
ordinance. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 10-205 of this part.
10-308: LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED; AMPLIFIED SOUND:
It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part of
the Town by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated, any
contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle, or any other device,
with or without a loudspeaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise or
words. However, this section shall not prohibit religious bodies from playing
chimes, bells, carillons or other religious music. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AGAINST THE HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
SECTION:
10-401: Public Intoxication And Drinking Prohibited
10-402: Possession; Transportation Of Intoxicating And Nonintoxicating
Beverages
10-403: Intoxicating Liquors
10-404: Marijuana Prohibited
10-405: Prostitution
10-406: Disorderly House
10-407: Maintaining Or Leasing A Disorderly House
10-408: Residents And Visitors To Disorderly House
10-409: Nudity; Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
10-410: Definitions; Obscenity Regulations
10-411: Prohibited Obscene Conduct
10-412: Vagrancy Defined For Specific Acts, Offenses
10-413: Curfew For Children
10-414: Sleeping In Public
10-415: Begging Prohibited
10-416: Gambling Prohibited
10-417: Being About Place Where Gambling Is Going On
10-418: Harmful Deception
10-419: False Or Bogus Checks
10-420: Swindling Unlawful
10-401: PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley, or other public place in the Town in a state of intoxication.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, a state of intoxication means the
condition in which a person is under the influence of any intoxicating,
nonintoxicating, spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, or of any narcotic or
drug, to such extent as to deprive the person of his or her full physical or
mental power, or in which a person is a danger to himself or others. (1985
Code)
10-402: POSSESSION; TRANSPORTATION OF INTOXICATING AND NONINTOXICATING
BEVERAGES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
be in possession of any intoxicating or nonintoxicating alcoholic beverage
while such person is upon any public street, road or highway or in any public
place within the Town limits.
   B.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to permit such person to be in possession of an
intoxicating alcoholic beverage.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating beverage except in the original container which shall not have
been opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed
unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear
trunk or compartment shall include the spare tire compartment in a station
wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the
driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion. (1985 Code)
   D.   For the purpose of this section "intoxicating beverage" shall be as
defined in section
3-101 of this Code. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 450, 9-10-2018)
10-403: INTOXICATING LIQUORS:
   A.   It is unlawful:
      1.   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind
except as permitted by law;
      2.   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by law, or to transport
or in any manner convey from place to place in the Town any intoxicating or
nonintoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by law;
      3.   To loiter in a place where intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor is
sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
      4.   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where intoxicating or nonintoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given away or
otherwise furnished in violation of law. (1985 Code)
10-404: MARIJUANA PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to:
      1.   Manufacture, grow, harvest, cultivate, propagate, plant, compound,
convert, produce, process, test, pack, repack, store, distribute, dispense or
possess with intent to manufacture, distribute or dispense marijuana;
      2.   Use, have, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body or possess marijuana;
      3.   Use or possess drug paraphernalia or to deliver, possess or
manufacture any such paraphernalia singly or in conjunction with any other
person; or
      4.   Appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place in the town while under the influence of a controlled
dangerous substance or marijuana.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, "marijuana" shall have the meaning
prescribed by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
2-101. "Drug paraphernalia" shall have the meaning prescribed by 63 Oklahoma
Statutes section
2-101, including the factors to determine in section 2-101.1 of title 63.
   C.   This section shall not apply to any marijuana lawfully obtained or
authorized by valid prescription order from a licensed physician while acting
in the course of his professional practice. (1985 Code)
10-405: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Be a prostitute;
      2.   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      3.   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      4.   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      5.   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      6.   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of prostitution
in the limits of town.
   B.   For the purposes of this section:
LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
PROSTITUTION: The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for hire
or money.
SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES: The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing, or
transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution. (1985 Code)
10-406: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   A "disorderly house" means any structure or vehicle by which the peace,
comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the
people therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
      1.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statute;
      2.   The violation of any of the ordinances of this town or statutes of
this state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume;
      3.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute
or town ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
      4.   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling. (1985 Code)
10-407: MAINTAINING OR LEASING A DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping and
maintaining a disorderly house.
   B.   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership or corporation
having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home,
or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or otherwise
permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any disorderly house,
and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a disorderly
house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house. (1985 Code)
10-408: RESIDENTS AND VISITORS TO DISORDERLY HOUSE:
No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a disorderly
house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the town shall have
the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not by
circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply to physicians or officers
in the discharge of their professional or official duties. (1985 Code)
10-409: NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity;
      2.   Appear in any public place in the town in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
      3.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person. (1985 Code)
10-410: DEFINITIONS; OBSCENITY REGULATIONS:
The following terms when used in this section and section
10-411 of this chapter shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section:
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: The matter or performance may be purchased or attended
on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a separate fee
for each item or performance.
DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material or
any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernible turgid state.
OBSCENE: To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
   A.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to prurient
interest; i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity, or
excretion;
   B.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner sexual
conduct regulated by 21 Oklahoma Statutes; and
   C.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining. (1985 Code)
10-411: PROHIBITED OBSCENE CONDUCT:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public or buy any obscene material;
      2.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
      3.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
      4.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         a.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
         b.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
         c.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
or
         d.   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
   B.   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of any
motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense. The provisions of section
10-410 of this chapter and this section shall not apply to a projectionist,
assistant projectionist, usher or cashier provided such person has no financial
interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person is not acting as
director or manager of the theater. (1985 Code)
10-412: VAGRANCY DEFINED FOR SPECIFIC ACTS, OFFENSES:
   A.   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the town. For the
purposes of this section, a "vagrant" means any person who loiters or remains
in or wanders about, a public or private place for any of the following
purposes:
      1.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
      2.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting
prostitution or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
      3.   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
      4.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
      5.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
      6.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms, provided that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
      7.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband. (1985
Code)
10-413: CURFEW FOR CHILDREN:
   A.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
    CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of twenty one (21) years who is in loco
parentis to a minor.
   GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
cafe, theater, drugstore, poolroom, shopping center and any other place devoted
to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the
front or immediate area of the above. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 297, 8-12-1994)
   B.   It is unlawful for any minor to remain, wander, stroll or play in any
public place on foot or to cruise about without a set destination in any
vehicle in, about or upon any public place in the town between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., Sunday through Thursday, to five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. Monday through Friday; and between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Saturday and Sunday unless: (Ord. 297, 8-12-1994)
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor; or
      3.   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or having
charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors
between the hours of curfew designated in subsection B of this section.
   D.   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, custodian or other adult
person having custody or control of any minor to suffer or permit or by
inefficient control to allow such person to be on any public place within the
town between the hours of curfew designated in subsection B of this section.
The provisions of this section do not apply if:
      1.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor;
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed by his parent, guardian, custodian or other adult having the care and
custody of the minor; or
      3.   The parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a missing
person notification to the town police department.
   E.   The board of trustees may permit by resolution or motion procedures for
advance notice or registration with the town of special events or functions
sponsored by churches, schools, clubs or other organizations which require
minors to be out at a later time. The board of trustees may also prescribe the
procedures for taking into custody minors found in violation of this section.
(1985 Code)
   F.   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be fined in
an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) to be assessed in ascending amounts of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for succeeding violation thereof. (Ord. 378, 8-11-2008)
   G.   Because of continuing acts of vandalism to the playground and picnic
equipment in the Shattuck town park, the period of curfew in those areas is to
commence one hour after sundown to sunrise the next day, during which time it
is hereby declared to be illegal and a misdemeanor for any person to be in
those areas during such periods of time, unless prior permission has been
granted by town hall.
In addition to the penalty heretofore provided in subsection F of this section,
persons present within said specified areas during said periods of prohibition
shall be required to make full restitution for any and all damages that may be
inflicted upon playground or picnic equipment, in addition to the payment of
fines provided for in subsection F of this section. (Ord. 385, 11-9-2009)
10-414: SLEEPING IN PUBLIC:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., to sleep on any street, in any other
public place, or on any property of another without the express or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge of such place.
   B.   It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or about the premises of any
public or private school or other public building, or in or about a depot of a
public carrier. (1985 Code)
10-415: BEGGING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need. (1985 Code)
10-416: GAMBLING PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
      1.   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on or
conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
      2.   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      3.   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      4.   To knowingly permit his or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
   B.   It is unlawful and an offense against the town for any person to play
any roulette wheel or slot machine or any other device or machine wherein the
element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks or
any other representatives of value. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 22-108.
10-417: BEING ABOUT PLACE WHERE GAMBLING IS GOING ON:
It is unlawful for any person to be about in the immediate vicinity where a
person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot
machine or other device, or otherwise. (1985 Code)
10-418: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(1985 Code)
10-419: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money, property or
valuable thing of the value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less by means of any
false or bogus check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument
or spurious coin. The term "false or bogus check" shall include checks or
orders given for money or property which are not honored on account of
insufficient funds of the maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer
thereof. The making, drawing, issuing or delivering of a check, draft or order,
payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with,
such bank or other depository. Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the
drawee the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or
order shall be presented for payment within thirty (30) days after same is
delivered and accepted. (1985 Code)
10-420: SWINDLING UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or persons or
businesses under false pretenses, deception, cheating or by any other
fraudulent act. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
10-501: Assault And Battery Prohibited
10-501: ASSAULT AND BATTERY PROHIBITED:
   A.   An assault is any intentional, wilful, or unlawful attempt or offer
with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   B.   A battery is any intentional, wilful or unlawful use of force or
violence upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with
another without consent.
   C.   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the town. Any person committing an assault or an assault
and battery within the jurisdiction of the town, shall be guilty of an offense.
(1985 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-601: Resisting An Officer
10-602: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
10-603: Assault Or Battery Upon Police Or Other Law Officer
10-604: Rescuing Prisoners
10-605: Escape Of Prisoners
10-606: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
10-607: False Alarms
10-608: False Representation To An Officer
10-609: Removal Of Barricades
10-610: Resisting Public Officials
10-601: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
   A.   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere
with a police officer or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his official duties
within the limits of the town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to assist
such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an arrest
or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or in front
of an approaching officer.
   C.   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
   D.   The words "obstruction of" shall, in addition to their common meaning,
include:
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and before he
is under arrest; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer. (1985 Code)
10-602: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
   A.   An officer of the town making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the town or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon person or persons
to assist him in making such arrest, executing such process or suppressing such
riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the town to refuse or fail to do so. (1985 Code)
10-603: ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his duties. (1985 Code)
10-604: RESCUING PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty, rescue
or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any officer or
employee of the town having legal custody of the same or from the town jail or
other place of confinement by the town, or to assist such prisoner in any
manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after conviction,
including escape from a vehicle of confinement. (1985 Code)
10-605: ESCAPE OF PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person confined in the town jail or other place of
confinement by the town, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the town in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody. (1985 Code)
10-606: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the town, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the town without being duly authorized to do so. (1985
Code)
10-607: FALSE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or police
department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident or other emergency or knowingly to cause the fire
department or police department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run. (1985 Code)
10-608: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the town government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town. (1985 Code)
10-609: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (1985 Code)
10-610: RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
      1.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the town in
the discharge of his official duties;
      2.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
      3.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive
or indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-701: General Penalties
10-701: GENERAL PENALTIES:
Any violation of the provisions of this part is punishable by fine or
imprisonment as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
PART 11
PARKS, RECREATION AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS
Parks   1
Cemetery   2
Library   3
CHAPTER 1
PARKS
SECTION:
11-101: Park And Recreation Board
11-102: Fees To Be Determined
11-103: Swimming; Bathing
11-104: Hunting, Boating And Fishing
11-105: Alcoholic, Nonalcoholic Beverages And Drugs Prohibited
11-106: Regulations For Parks And Public Recreation Areas
11-107: Penalty
11-101: PARK AND RECREATION BOARD:
   A.   Creation Of Board: There is hereby created a park and recreation board
for the town of Shattuck, Oklahoma.
   B.   Powers: The board shall have power to make rules and regulations
relating to the administration and operation of all parks, playgrounds,
swimming pools and other recreational facilities and programs operated by the
town, subject to the approval of the town board and any ordinances which the
board may enact.
The board shall also have power to consider any matter relating to parks and
other recreational facilities and programs; and to make proper recommendations
thereon to the town board, the town manager, the head of the administrative
department in charge of such matters, or to others as it deems appropriate.
   C.   Membership: The park and recreation board shall consist of five (5)
members who shall each serve a term of five (5) years. The members shall be
designated as seat one, seat two, seat three, seat four, and seat five. The
initial appointment of members shall be respectively for terms of one, two (2),
three (3), four (4) and five (5) years and appointment therefor shall be for a
term of five (5) years each.
The town administrator shall be an ex officio member of the board without a
vote.
   D.   Appointment And Removal: The members of the board shall be appointed by
the mayor and confirmed by the town board. The mayor may remove any member at
any time, with the approval of the town board.
   E.   Compensation: The members of the park and recreation board shall serve
without compensation.
   F.   Election Of Officers: The members of the board shall annually elect a
chairman, vice chairman and secretary from among its membership.
   G.   Time And Place Of Meeting; Special Meetings: The board shall determine
at the initial meeting of the board the time and place of the regular meetings
of the board and shall certify that information to the town clerk of the town
of Shattuck. The chairman or any three (3) members may call special meetings of
the board upon such notice that shall permit all members an opportunity to be
present. (Ord. 326, 9-14-1998, eff. 9-14-1998)
11-102: FEES TO BE DETERMINED:
The town shall provide by rules, from time to time, the fees charged for any
such recreational privileges on any property or facility for recreational
purposes owned or operated by the town. (1985 Code)
11-103: SWIMMING; BATHING:
It is unlawful for any person to swim, bathe or otherwise immerse themselves in
the waters of the lakes and reservoirs owned or controlled by the town, unless
such is otherwise specifically allowed by ordinance or engaged in under rights
and provisions provided in contract with any person, firm or corporation to
whom a concession might be granted for such purposes by the duly constituted
authorities of the town. (Ord. 363, 5-14-2007)
11-104: HUNTING, BOATING AND FISHING:
It is unlawful for any person to hunt, fish, or use a boat on any lake or
reservoir owned or controlled by the town, provided, however, that fishing
shall be permitted upon obtaining a permit from the town. The fee for such
fishing permit shall be as follows:
 
Person under 18 years of age $ 5.00
Adults                       10.00
Two adults                   15.00
Family                       25.00
 
It is further provided that no person shall take in excess of three (3) trout
per day nor have in possession in excess of six (6) trout. Violation of these
restrictions may result in loss of permit at action of town council. (Ord. 363,
5-14-2007)
11-105: ALCOHOLIC, NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND DRUGS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to consume any intoxicating alcoholic
liquor or beverage, or nonintoxicating beverage, all as defined by this code,
including 3.2 percent beer, within the boundaries of the Shattuck Centennial
Lake park.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to possess, distribute, use, or consume
cocaine; marijuana, including all parts of the cannabis plant, specifically
including the seeds thereof; and all other controlled dangerous substances
which as the same are defined in the uniform controlled dangerous substances
act, 63 Oklahoma Statutes sections
2-101 to 2-608.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, Shattuck Centennial Lake park is
located adjacent to and to the north and west of Bush Addition and Rock Creek
Addition to the town of Shattuck.
   D.   The provisions of the uniform controlled dangerous substance act, 63
Oklahoma Statutes sections
2-101 to 2-608, are for the purpose of this section adopted herein by reference
to the provisions of such act as specifically cited herein. (Ord. 363, 5-14-
2007)
11-106: REGULATIONS FOR PARKS AND PUBLIC RECREATION AREAS:
   A.   It shall be an offense for any person to perform any of the following
acts within any city park or public recreation area unless the doing of such
act is authorized by the city manager or council:
      1.   Erect any signboard or distribute or give away any handbills or
other thing of an advertising nature;
      2.   Knowingly and wilfully permit any cattle, mules, hogs, sheep, goats,
chickens or other domestic fowls to trespass or run at large within the
confines of the city park. The animal or fowl shall be impounded and disposed
of as provided for other impounded animals;
      3.   Operate any minibike, motorcycle, motor scooter or similar device
upon, over, or across any city park, public school ground, recreational area,
parkways, drainage facilities or other public right of way other than the
streets used for motor vehicular traffic except where so signed;
      4.   Ride bicycles, tricycles or velocipedes in parks or upon parkways or
park roads except upon paths specifically provided for that purpose or upon the
roadway. In no case shall they be permitted to ride upon sidewalks, footpaths,
or on parking areas or grass;
      5.   Discharge firearms;
      6.   Commit any nuisance or any offense against decency and good morals;
      7.   Disturb or interfere with any picnic, social gathering, or program
of any group of persons;
      8.   Write upon or mark or deface in any manner, or use in any improper
way, any water closet, park seat, building, fence, or other property within the
park;
      9.   Break, cut, mutilate, injure, remove, or carry away any trees,
shrubs, plants, flowers, stone, stone walk, bench, chair, seat, structure,
fence, property or anything whatsoever in, upon, or near any park, or any
street, avenue, or highway around the same;
      10.   Throw stones or rubbish of any kind into any lake, pond, stream, or
other place in a park, except receptacles designated for that purpose;
      11.   Foul, pollute, or contaminate in any way any spring, stream, lake
or drinking fountain;
      12.   Use park garbage and/or trash receptacles for the disposal of
garbage and/or trash brought from residential or commercial premises;
      13.   Post, affix, or inscribe any handbill, poster, card, device or
inscription to or upon any fence, structure, or property of or on any park or
any street, avenue or highway around the same;
      14.   Chase, kill, set snares for, or pet any rabbit, squirrel, bird, or
any animal or thing belonging to said parks or kept therein;
      15.   Violate any traffic ordinance;
      16.   Drive or ride upon the grass or footways or walks or elsewhere than
upon the roads provided for the use of automobiles and other vehicles;
      17.   Drive or ride at a greater speed than fifteen (15) miles per hour;
      18.   Make a fire for any purpose other than the noncommercial
preparation of food on or within fireplaces, pits, or grills provided by the
town for such purpose, except with permission therefor by the city manager; or
      19.   Set up any booth, table, stand, or other device for vending or
retailing any candies, ice cream, or other article whatsoever except with
permission therefor by the city manager. (Ord. 363, 5-14-2007)
11-107: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply with any
ordinance provision of this chapter or any legal order or regulation made
pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code, provided, however, the fine for fishing without a permit
shall be as follows:
 
Person under 16 years of age         $10.00
Person over age 16 and under age 65  25.00
 
The fine for exceeding a limit of three (3) trout per day or six (6) trout in
possession shall be as follows:
 
Person under 16 years of age  $10.00
Person over 16 years of age   50.00
 
(Ord. 363, 5-14-2007)
CHAPTER 2
CEMETERY 1
SECTION:
11-201: Board Established, Membership
11-202: Powers And Duties
11-203: Compilation Of Rules And Regulations
11-204: Penalty And Violation Of Rules And Regulations
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 26-101 et seq.
11-201: BOARD ESTABLISHED, MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   There shall be a cemetery board, which shall consist of three (3)
members appointed by the town board of trustees to serve terms as provided by
state law. The board of trustees may remove a member for cause, and may fill
vacancies for the unexpired terms. Members shall serve without compensation.
   B.   Each year the cemetery board shall elect a chairman, a vice chairman,
and a secretary; and the secretary need not be a member of the board. The board
shall determine the time and place of its regular meetings, and the chairman or
any two (2) members may call special meetings. (1985 Code)
11-202: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The cemetery board shall have the following powers:
      1.   Establish rules and regulations governing the management,
improvement, and establishment of the cemetery;
      2.   To fix the price for which lots shall be sold or for which an
interment shall be made; and
      3.   All other powers granted by state law for supervision and control of
the town cemetery. (1985 Code; amended 1986)
11-203: COMPILATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All rules and regulations promulgated by the cemetery board shall be in
typewritten form and shall be available for public inspection. A copy of the
rules and regulations shall be provided to any lot owner in the cemetery upon
request free of charge. (Added 1986)
11-204: PENALTY AND VIOLATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Anyone violating any rule or regulation promulgated by the cemetery board in
the manner described in section
11-203 of this chapter, or failing to comply with such, shall be guilty of an
offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Added 1986)
CHAPTER 3
LIBRARY
SECTION:
11-301: Shattuck Public Library Board
11-302: Library Funds
11-303: Donations
11-301: SHATTUCK PUBLIC LIBRARY BOARD:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created a Shattuck Public Library Board.
   B.   Duties: The library board shall act in an advisory capacity to the town
board of directors and the town administrator in planning, maintaining,
equipping, operating, regulating and protecting the Shattuck Public Library.
The library board shall set policies for the library, advise on the
expenditures of all monies collected and placed to the credit of the library as
may be provided by ordinances of the Town of Shattuck, supervise and care for
the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased or set aside for the
library. The library board may impose fines or suitable penalties for loss of,
failure to return, or damage to library materials, subject to ordinances which
the Shattuck Board of Trustees may enact.
   C.   Appointment: The board shall consist of five (5) members, to be
appointed by the mayor and approved by the town board of trustees. The board
may submit names to the board of trustees for consideration.
   D.   Term of Officer; Removal; Vacancies: Directors appointed to the library
board shall hold office for a term of three (3) years from May 1 following
their appointment, and their terms shall be staggered. The municipal governing
body may remove any director for misconduct or neglect of duty. Vacancies in
the library board of directors shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments. Any member may be removed for good cause by a majority vote of
the town board of trustees. Good cause shall include, but not be limited to,
neglect of duties, failure to regularly attend board meetings, and missing
three (3) consecutive board meetings.
   E.   Officers: Each year the board shall elect one of its members as
chairperson, one (1) member as secretary, and by electing such other officers
as the board deems necessary.
   F.   Meetings: The board shall determine the time and place of its regular
meetings. Special meetings of the board may be called by the chairperson or by
a majority of the board.
   G.   Bylaws and Regulations: The library board shall adopt such bylaws and
library regulations as may be necessary, not inconsistent with city or state
laws, and subject to approval by the Town board of directors.
   H.   Budget; Annual Report: The library board shall, prior to April 30th of
each year, present an itemized requested budget for the next fiscal year to the
town treasurer; and on or before July 31st of each year, submit its Dept. of
Libraries annual report to the Town Board of Trustees.
   I.   Compensation: No compensation for the services of the library board
shall be allowed to any member thereof. (Ord. 460, 8-10-2020)
11-302: LIBRARY FUNDS:
All funds received by the board on account of the operation of the library, or
otherwise, shall be paid by the board to the town clerk-treasurer, who shall
deposit the same into the general fund.
The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall annually appropriate to the library Board
of Directors from funds available to the town such monies as are deemed
necessary to operate and maintain the Shattuck Public Library for the education
and cultural enrichment of the citizens of Shattuck. (Ord. 460, 8-10-2020)
11-303: DONATIONS:
Any person desiring to make donations of money, personal property or real
property for the benefit of the Shattuck Public Library, or for the
establishment, maintenance or endowment of public lectures in connection with
the library upon any subject designated by the donor in the field of
literature, science and the arts (except that lectures in the interest of any
political party, politics or sectarian religion are expressly prohibited) shall
have the right to vest the title to such money or property in the town, to be
held and controlled by the town, when accepted, according to the terms of the
donation. The town shall be held and considered to be a special trustee as to
such property or money donated. (Ord. 460, 8-10-2020)
PART 12
PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT
Reserved   1
Zoning Regulations   2
Flood Damage Prevention   3
CHAPTER 1
RESERVED
CHAPTER 2
ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-201: Adopted
12-201: ADOPTED:
Ordinance 241, adopted September 9, 1981, entitled "a zoning ordinance for
Shattuck, Oklahoma", and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference. Any violation of the zoning ordinance shall
be punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. A copy of the zoning regulations and amendments are on file
in the town clerk's office. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-301: Statement Of Purpose
12-302: Definitions
12-303: General Provisions
12-304: Administration; Applications And Requirements
12-305: Variances
12-306: Exemptions
12-307: Appeals
12-301: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   Floodplains are subject to periodic inundation, as a result of man's
activities, which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which may adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the state. The purpose of these rules and regulations is to
conform with the requirements necessary to establish eligibility and maintain
participation in the national flood insurance program, as well as to protect
the public health, safety and general welfare by restricting damageable
floodplain improvements and uses which increase flood damage potential
elsewhere. More specifically, these rules and regulations are adopted to:
      1.   Preserve the capacity of the floodplain to carry and discharge the
regulatory flood;
      2.   Provide rules and regulations for any platting of land in
floodplains, construction of dwelling units and commercial or industrial
structures in floodplains, and all other construction in the floodplains which
may divert, retard or obstruct floodwater and threaten public health, safety or
welfare;
      3.   Help establish minimum flood protection elevations and flood damage
prevention requirements for use of structures and facilities which are located
in a floodplain or are vulnerable to flood damage;
      4.   Provide for coordination by the planning commission with all other
interested and affected political subdivisions and state agencies;
      5.   Protect adjacent upstream and downstream private and public
landowners from increases in flood elevations, velocities or both, which could
increase the potential for flood damages;
      6.   Minimize extraordinary direct and indirect costs to governmental
units caused by developments within floodplains for roads, sewer and water
works, flood control works, flood relief or emergency services;
      7.   Reduce health and safety risks and prevent blighting and economic
losses which detract from community well being and the tax base;
      8.   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard; and
      9.   Minimize water pollution, increased sedimentation and nuisances due
to floating structures and debris. (1985 Code; amended 1987)
12-302: DEFINITIONS:
The words, terms and phrases used herein shall have the meanings provided
hereinbelow, consistent with 82 Oklahoma Statutes section 1603:
AREA OF JURISDICTION: All of the unincorporated areas of the county.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving excavation or drilling operations.
DWELLING UNIT: A place of residence and may be a single or multiple dwelling
building.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of the community, issued by
the federal emergency management agency (FEMA), where the boundaries of the
flood, related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as
zone A.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: General and temporary conditions of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of lakes, streams,
rivers or any other inland waters.
FLOODPLAIN (FLOOD PRONE AREAS): The land adjacent to a channel or body of water
which has been or may be covered by flooding, including, but not limited to,
the 100-year flood.
FLOODPLAIN BOARD: An administrative and planning board, for floodplain
management, of a county, or the planning commission of a county if so
designated by the governing body of the county.
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS: The codes, resolutions and other regulations relating
to the use of land and construction within the channel and floodplain areas
including, but not limited to, zoning ordinances, platting regulations,
building codes, housing codes, setback requirements and open area regulations.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other
similar vehicles.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
100-YEAR FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeding in any given year, based upon the criteria provided by the FEMA or
the Oklahoma water resources board.
PERSON: Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.
PROGRAM: The overall national flood insurance program (NFIP) authorized by the
national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 USC 4001-4128) as amended.
REGULATORY FLOODING: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the 100-year
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
STORM CELLAR: A space below grade used to accommodate occupants of the
structure and emergency supplies as a means of temporary shelter against severe
tornado or similar windstorm activity.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation ordinance or resolution. (1985 Code; amended 1987)
12-303: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions of these rules and regulations shall be held to be
minimum requirements. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions. Flood stages
may be increased by manmade or natural causes, or combinations such as logjams
and bridge openings restricted by debris. These rules and regulations do not
imply that areas outside the regulatory floodplain or construction and
development within such floodplain will be free from all flooding or flood
damages.
   B.   These rules and regulations shall not be deemed nor construed to create
any liability on the part of the floodplain board or planning commission or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages which might be alleged or
claimed to have occurred or sustained as a result of reliance on these rules
and regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   C.   Any structure or dwelling unit within a floodplain that existed prior
to the date of approval of these regulations which does not meet the minimum
standards set forth herein may continue. However, unless brought into
compliance with the minimum standards set forth herein, such prior uses may not
be substantially improved. (1985 Code; amended 1987)
12-304: ADMINISTRATION; APPLICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve,
move, or demolish any dwelling unit or structure without first obtaining a
separate permit for such activity.
   B.   No manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but
not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, shall be commenced until a
separate permit has been obtained.
   C.   No manufactured home shall be placed on improved or unimproved real
estate without first obtaining a separate permit for each manufactured home.
   D.   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file a permit application
on a form furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed and submitted
to the designated permit agent before the issuance of a permit will be
considered.
   E.   Any person who undertakes construction of a structure without first
obtaining a permit as provided for herein shall be guilty of a permit
requirement.
   F.   The flood hazard boundary map issued by the federal insurance
administration for this community (dated November 22, 1974) and any officially
published revisions to this map, is adopted as the official map of the
enforcement of this chapter. Zone A on this map delineates the area within
which the requirements of this chapter will be enforced. The official map shall
be posted in the city or town clerk-treasurer's office and the office of the
mayor or city or town manager.
   G.   The office of the city clerk-treasurer is appointed as the "permit
agent" responsible for receiving applications and examining the plans and
specifications for proposed construction or development.
   H.   The permit agent shall review proposed developments to assure that
necessary permits have been obtained from those governmental agencies from
which approval is required by federal or state law, including section 404 of
the federal water pollution control act, 33 USC section 1251 et seq.
   I.   The permit agent shall review permit applications to determine whether
proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed
building site is in a floodplain development substantial improvements
(including the placement of prefabricated buildings and manufactured homes)
shall:
      1.   Be designated (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      2.   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage;
      3.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
and
      4.   Be certified by a registered engineer or licensed architect that the
above requirements will be satisfied.
   J.   The permit agent shall review subdivision proposals and other proposed
new developments to determine whether such proposals or other proposed new
developments is in a floodplain. Any such proposal or new development shall be
reviewed to assure that:
      1.   Such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage
within the flood prone area;
      2.   Public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
      3.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   K.   The permit agent shall require, within floodplains, new and replacement
water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems.
   L.   The permit agent shall require, within floodplains:
      1.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters; and
      2.   On site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
   M.   The permit agent shall require that all subdivision proposals and other
proposed new developments greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is the lesser, include within such proposals 100-year flood elevation
data.
   N.   The permit agent shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base
flood elevation data available from a federal, state, or other source, until
such other data has been provided by the FEMA, as criteria for requiring that:
      1.   Development and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
100-year flood level; and
      2.   Development and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or floodproofed
to or above the 100-year flood level.
   O.   For the purpose of the determination of applicable flood insurance risk
premium rates within zone A on the community's FHBM, the permit agent shall:
      1.   Require the applicant to furnish the elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) of the lowest habitable floor (including basement) of new or a
substantially improved structure, and a statement of whether or not such
structures contain a basement;
      2.   Require the applicant to furnish, if the structure has been
floodproofed, the elevation data (in relation to mean sea level) to which the
structure was floodproofed; and
      3.   Maintain a record of all such information for public inspection at
the city or town clerk-treasurer's office.
   P.   The permit agent shall notify, in river or stream flooding situations,
adjacent communities and the Oklahoma water resources board prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of such
notification to the administrator.
   Q.   The permit agent shall assure that the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   R.   The permit agent shall require that manufactured homes placed within
zone A on the community's flood hazard boundary map shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by providing over the top and frame
ties to ground anchors. Specific requirements shall be that:
      1.   Over the top ties be provided at each of the four (4) corners of the
manufactured home, with two (2) additional ties per side;
      2.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points, manufactured homes less than
fifty feet (50') long requiring only four (4) additional ties per side;
      3.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
      4.   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
      5.   The permit agent shall require an evacuation plan indicating
alternative vehicular access and exit routes be filed with local civil defense
director for manufactured home parks and manufactured home subdivisions located
within zone A of community FHBM as delineated by FEMA. (1985 Code; amended
1987)
12-305: VARIANCES:
   A.   Variances for uses which do not satisfy the requirements of these
regulations and the floodplain management act may be granted by the floodplain
board pursuant to 82 Oklahoma Statutes section 1615.
   B.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the floodplain
board accompanied by a filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   C.   The petition shall contain all necessary facts regarding the variance
request, including legal description of the area to be included within the
variance, elevations and reasons why compliance with these regulations will
result in an arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property without sufficient
benefit or advantage to the people.
   D.   Notice of public hearing on the petition shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the community at least thirty (30) days
prior to the date of the hearing. The notice shall set forth the time and place
of the hearing and information describing the petition and name and address of
petitioner. The petitioner shall bear the cost of publication and shall be
responsible for accuracy of the notice.
   E.   Variance shall not exceed a period of twenty (20) years. The copy of
any variance shall be sent to the Oklahoma water resources board within fifteen
(15) days.
   F.   Variances shall only be granted by the floodplain board or planning
commission upon:
      1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with other existing local laws or resolutions.
   G.   Variances shall not be granted by the planning commission within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in the 100-year flood elevation
would result from such variance.
   H.   Variances may be granted by the floodplain board or planning commission
for development and substantial improvements on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or
less which adjoins or is surrounded by lots having existing structures built
below the 100-year flood elevation, provided that all provisions of these rules
in this section are met.
   I.   The variance granted shall be the minimum that is necessary
(considering the flood damage potential) to afford relief from a provision of
this regulation.
   J.   When a variance allows for a structure to be built below the 100-year
flood elevation, the floodplain board or planning commission shall notify the
applicant in writing that premium rates for flood insurance will be higher and
risks to life and property are increased and that applicant is responsible for
any increased costs and risks. (1985 Code; amended 1987)
12-306: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   These floodplain management rules and regulations shall not apply to
the use of the usual farm buildings for agricultural purposes, the planting of
agricultural crops, the construction of farm ponds or the construction of
uninsurable outbuildings.
   B.   New storm cellars may be built below the regulatory flood elevation and
shall be exempt, provided that such new storm cellars are:
      1.   Limited to nonhabitable uses;
      2.   Designed so that all electrical, heating and other mechanical
equipment is above the 100-year flood protection elevation;
      3.   Designed so that the integrity of the storm cellar is preserved
during flooding; and
      4.   Compliance with requirements of subsections B1 through B3 of this
section must be certified by a registered professional engineer or licensed
architect. (1985 Code; amended 1987)
12-307: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the floodplain board or planning
commission may appeal that decision within ten (10) days in accordance with 82
Oklahoma Statutes section 1616(B). (1985 Code; amended 1987)
PART 13
PUBLIC SAFETY
Fire Prevention Code   1
Fire Department And Service   2
Police Department   3
Civil Defense   4
Unclaimed Property   5
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
13-101: Adoption Of Codes
13-102: Enforcement
13-103: Definition
13-104: Limits For Storage Of Flammable Liquids, Bulk Storage Of Liquefied
Petroleum Gases, Explosives And Blasting Agents
13-105: Modifications
13-106: Appeals
13-107: Penalty
13-101: ADOPTION OF CODES:
   A.   Fire Prevention Code: There is hereby adopted by the town board of
trustees for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code known
as the fire prevention code, recommended by the National Fire Protection
Association, being particularly the current edition thereof and the whole
thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended. Not less than one copy of the code has been filed in the office of the
clerk of the town and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein. The provisions of the fire prevention code shall
be controlling within the limits of the town. (1985 Code)
   B.   Fireworks Display Code: A certain document, one copy which is on file
in the office of the town clerk of the town of Shattuck, being marked and
designated as international fireworks display code, latest edition, as
published by the ICC NFPA 1123, is hereby adopted as the fireworks display code
for the town; for the minimum requirements for outdoor fireworks displays,
local permit regulations, regulations for state certification of display
operators and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of said international fireworks display code are hereby referred to,
adopted and a part hereof, as is fully set out in this subsection with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed by this
subsection. (Ord. 417, 6-10-2013)
13-102: ENFORCEMENT:
The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the chief of the fire department.
(1985 Code)
13-103: DEFINITION:
Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the fire prevention code hereby
adopted it shall be held to mean the town. (1985 Code)
13-104: LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED
PETROLEUM GASES, EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS:
The limits referred to in the fire prevention code, in which storage of
flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, the limits
referred to in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, and
the limits in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited,
are hereby established as the fire limits of the town. (1985 Code)
13-105: MODIFICATIONS:
The chief of the fire department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the code hereby adopted in his own discretion or upon application
in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the letter of the code,
provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured
and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modifications when
granted or allowed and the decision of the chief of the fire department thereon
shall be entered upon the records of the department and for applications
requesting change, a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant. (1985 Code)
13-106: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the chief of the fire department to the town board of trustees
within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (1985 Code)
13-107: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT AND SERVICE
SECTION:
13-201: Fire Department
13-202: Duties Of The Fire Chief
13-203: Duties Of The Assistant Chief
13-204: Company Officers
13-205: The Secretary-Treasurer
13-206: New Members
13-207: Bylaws
13-208: Rules And Regulations
13-209: Use Of Fire Equipment; Inventory And Repair
13-210: Contracts Authorized Outside Town Limits
13-211: Contract Terms, Fees For Service
13-212: Authority To Answer Calls
13-213: Firefighters Serving In Regular Line Of Duty
13-214: Department Considered Agent Of State
13-201: FIRE DEPARTMENT 1 :
   A.   There shall be a fire department, the head of which shall be the chief
of the fire department, appointed by the town board of trustees.
   B.   The term "volunteer firefighter" means one who is enrolled as a member
of the fire department of the town and who serves in that capacity without
receiving a regular salary. The size of the volunteer fire department of the
town shall be composed of not less than six (6) nor more than twenty (20)
members.
   C.   It is the duty of the fire department, among others, to extinguish
fires; to rescue persons endangered by fire; to resuscitate, and to administer
first aid to, persons injured in or about burning structures, or elsewhere in
case of an emergency; to promote fire prevention; and unless otherwise
provided, to enforce all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention, and
safety of persons from fire in public and private buildings. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 29-201 et seq.
13-202: DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF 1 :
   A.   The chief shall be the administrative head of the department, subject
to the laws of the state, ordinances of the town, and the rules and regulations
adopted in this chapter. The chief shall have the following powers and duties,
and he may assign duties to other members of the department:
      1.   The chief shall be responsible for the general condition and
efficient operation of the department, the training of members, and the
performance of all other duties imposed upon him. He shall have supervision and
control of the fire department, subject to the supervision and control of the
town board;
      2.   The chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cistern and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year;
      3.   The chief may maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members;
      4.   The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties;
      5.   The chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire
hazards in the community and on the activities of the department;
      6.   The chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism or arson,
shall notify proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence
for future use in the case;
      7.   The chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the
town at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice on persons for any violations that may be found; and
      8.   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
department and shall make reports to the town board as it may require. The
chief shall keep the board of trustees informed regarding the fire department
and its needs. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 11 OS § 20-102; 74 OS § 314.
13-203: DUTIES OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF:
In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on duty shall command the
department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the chief. The assistant chief shall be
appointed by the chief with approval by the town board of trustees. (1985 Code)
13-204: COMPANY OFFICERS:
   A.   Company officers shall be selected by the chief based upon the
following criteria:
      1.   Knowledge of firefighting;
      2.   Leadership ability; and
      3.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (1985 Code)
13-205: THE SECRETARY-TREASURER:
   A.   One member elected by the members of the fire department shall be a
secretary-treasurer. His duties shall consist of the following:
      1.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
      2.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
      3.   Collecting any money due the department by the members. (1985 Code)
13-206: NEW MEMBERS:
New members of the department shall be appointed by the chief and shall be on
probation for one year after their appointment. Upon completion of their
probation period, new members must be approved by the majority of the other
members of the fire department and the chief. (1985 Code)
13-207: BYLAWS:
   A.   The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
      1.   All volunteer fire department members are required, when notified,
to respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies;
      2.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters;
      3.   At least one regular business meeting of the members shall be held
each month;
      4.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three
(3) unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be dropped from the
fire department rolls;
      5.   Any member leaving the town for an extended period of time is
required to notify the chief;
      6.   Any member refusing to attend training classes provided for members
of the department will be dropped; and
      7.   Any member of the fire department may be dropped from the rolls for
the following offenses:
         a.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
         b.   Any act of insubordination;
         c.   Neglect of duty;
         d.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department;
         e.   Conviction of a felony; or
         f.   By majority vote of the members of the company and approval of
the town board of trustees. (1985 Code)
13-208: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The town board of trustees by motion or resolution may adopt and change
regulations relating to the fire department, its organization, operation and
compensation. (1985 Code)
13-209: USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; INVENTORY AND REPAIR:
No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private purpose,
nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away or conceal
any article used in any way by the department. No person shall enter any place
where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment belonging
to the department unless accompanied by, or having the special permission of,
an officer or authorized member of the department. (1985 Code)
13-210: CONTRACTS AUTHORIZED OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS 1 :
The town is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into contracts or
agreements with individuals, firms, private corporations or associations, or
political subdivisions of the state for fire protection outside the corporate
limits of the town, and to contract to provide fire protection jointly with
other organizations and municipal subdivisions of the state. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 29-108.
13-211: CONTRACT TERMS, FEES FOR SERVICE:
Any contract entered into by the town with an individual owner, firm, private
corporation, or association, for outside aid, or mutual aid for fire
protection, shall provide for the payment by the owner, firm, private
corporation, or association, or political subdivision to the town for such fire
apparatus and personnel at the rate per call as set by the town board. All
monies received from the calls shall go into the general fund. (1985 Code)
13-212: AUTHORITY TO ANSWER CALLS:
The fire department of the town is hereby authorized and directed to answer all
outside calls within five (5) miles of the corporate town limits in the
discretion of the fire chief. The fire department may not answer such outside
calls if, in the opinion of the fire chief, it is inexpedient to do so because
of another fire in the town, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous
highways, or other physical conditions. (1985 Code; amended 1986)
13-213: FIREFIGHTERS SERVING IN REGULAR LINE OF DUTY:
All volunteer firefighters of the fire department of the town attending and
serving at fires or doing fire prevention work outside the corporate limits of
the town, as herein provided, shall be considered as serving in their regular
line of duty as fully as if they were serving within the corporate limits of
the town. The firefighters shall be entitled to all the benefits of any
firemen's pension and relief fund in the same manner as if the firefighting or
fire prevention work was being done within the corporate limits of the town.
Compensation of firefighters shall be as provided by the board of trustees by
ordinance or resolution. (1985 Code)
13-214: DEPARTMENT CONSIDERED AGENT OF STATE:
The fire department of the town answering any fire alarm, or call, or
performing any fire prevention services outside the corporate limits of the
town shall be considered as an agent of the state, and acting solely and alone
in a governmental capacity, and the municipality shall not be liable in damages
for any act of commission, omission, or negligence while answering or returning
from any fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by
virtue of sections
13-210 to
13-214 of this chapter. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 3
POLICE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
13-301: Police Department Created; Chief
13-302: Duties
13-303: Police Officers
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 34-101 et seq.
13-301: POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF:
There shall be a police department, the head of which is the chief of police,
or police chief, appointed by the town board of trustees and removable by the
board. The chief of police is an officer of the town, and has supervision and
control of the police department. All police officers are officers of the town.
(1985 Code)
13-302: DUTIES:
It is the duty of the police department to apprehend and arrest on view or on
warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the town; to
suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions, and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. The police department has
charge of and operates the town jail. (1985 Code)
13-303: POLICE OFFICERS:
Police officers shall be appointed subject to approval of the town board of
trustees. Police officers shall perform such duties as shall be required of
them by the chief of police, town ordinances, federal, state and county
regulations and any other actions required in the maintenance of good order and
public peace. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
13-401: Purpose Of Civil Defense Organization
13-402: Department Established
13-403: Duties Of Director
13-404: Powers Of Director In Emergencies
13-405: Compensation Of Members
13-401: PURPOSE OF CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION 1 :
A civil defense organization is created for the town to carry out preparations
for and to function in the event of emergencies endangering the lives and
property of the people of the town. The duties of the civil defense
organization are the protection of the lives and health of the citizens and of
property and property rights, both private and public, and performance of all
functions necessary and incident thereto. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 11 OS § 34-101 et seq.
13-402: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the
government a department of civil defense which shall consist of:
      1.   A director of civil defense who shall be appointed and may be
removed with or without cause by the mayor; and
      2.   A civil defense advisory committee. This committee shall consist of
the mayor as chairman and five (5) members appointed by the mayor and serving
at his pleasure. The committee shall select from its members a vice chairman
and secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are directed by the mayor and its
function shall be to act in an advisory capacity as needed or requested by the
mayor or the director of civil defense. (1985 Code)
13-403: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR:
The director of civil defense shall be the executive head of the department of
the civil defense and shall be responsible for carrying out the civil defense
program of the town. He shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed
for expenses incurred in the performance of his duties. It shall be the duty of
the director of civil defense as soon as practicable after his appointment to
perfect an organization to carry out the purposes set forth in this chapter and
he shall have all necessary power and authority to form committees or other
bodies and to appoint and designate the chairman or chief officer of such
bodies as may be necessary to perfect such an organization. He shall have
further duty and responsibility to cooperate with all civil defense agencies of
other governmental units, including the state and the federal government. The
director of civil defense is further authorized to formulate written plans and
gather information and keep written record thereof to govern the functions of
the civil defense organization. (1985 Code)
13-404: POWERS OF DIRECTOR IN EMERGENCIES:
   A.   In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the director of civil defense after due authorization from the
mayor shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and regulations
relating to civil defense and, if necessary, take control of transportation,
communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and public utilities
for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He shall cooperate in
every way with the activities of other governmental agencies or civil defense
organizations. If required by the mayor, the director shall have control over
any and all funds allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating
distress conditions in the town.
   B.   The director of civil defense and other members of the civil defense
organization created by him shall have the power and authority to enforce the
laws of the state and ordinances of the town during the period of emergency and
shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for violations of
such laws or ordinances. (1985 Code)
13-405: COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS:
All members of the civil defense organization created in this chapter shall
serve without compensation. The town shall not be liable for any personal or
bodily injury received by any member of such organization while acting in the
line of duty, however, the town may provide for workers' compensation and other
coverages for members of the civil defense organization. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 5
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY 1
SECTION:
13-501: Complete Record Required
13-502: Disposition Of Unclaimed Property
13-503: Property Found By A Private Person
13-504: Recovery By Owner
 
Notes
1 1. 15 OS § 511 et seq.; 22 OS § 1261 et seq.; 22 OS § 1321 et seq.
13-501: COMPLETE RECORD REQUIRED:
All personal property which comes into the possession of any police officer,
which has been found or stolen or taken off the person or out of the possession
of any prisoner or person suspected of, or charged with, being a criminal, and
which is not known to belong to some person laying claim thereto, shall be, by
the officer securing possession thereof, delivered into the charge of the chief
of police. The chief shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose,
make a record sufficient to identify the property, with the date and
circumstances of the receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was
taken and the place where it was found; and the record shall also disclose the
subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of the
purchaser, and the amount for which it was sold. (1985 Code)
13-502: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which remains in the
possession of the chief of police, unclaimed, or the ownership of which is not
to him satisfactorily established, for a period of thirty (30) days, shall be
sold, and the proceeds of the sale shall be paid over to the town clerk, who
shall issue his receipt therefor, and deposit the same to the credit of the
general fund of the town, except such personal property as in the opinion of
the mayor can be more advantageously used by some department or office of the
town government. Ten (10) days before a sale of such unclaimed property, the
chief of police shall sign and have posted in a conspicuous place in the town
clerk's office, where it will be plainly visible to persons who visit that
office, notice of the time, place, and manner of such sale, and general
description of the property to be sold. However, if in the opinion of the
mayor, all or any portion of the personal property may be more advantageously
used in any town department or office, he shall so instruct the chief of police
in writing, and the chief shall thereupon deliver the personal property
designated to that department or office of town government and make a permanent
record of its disposition. (1985 Code)
13-503: PROPERTY FOUND BY A PRIVATE PERSON:
Any personal property found by a person other than a public official or
employee, which is delivered to any police officer for identification, if not
claimed or identified within thirty (30) days, shall, within ten (10)
additional days thereafter, if requested by the finder, be returned to him, and
a record of such disposal made thereof. If the finder does not request return
of the property to him within such additional ten (10) days, then the chief of
police shall sell the property as if it had been found by a public official or
employee, or on instruction by the mayor deliver it to some department or
office of the town government for its use. (1985 Code)
13-504: RECOVERY BY OWNER:
If any property is sold as herein provided, and the owner thereof takes and
recovers possession of same from the purchaser, the amount paid therefor shall
be returned to the purchaser, upon verified claim being submitted and approved
by the town board of trustees. (1985 Code)
PART 14
STREETS AND PUBLIC WORKS
Use And Obstruction Of Streets   1
CHAPTER 1
USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS
SECTION:
14-101: Trees And Shrubbery To Be Trimmed
14-102: Unlawful To Injure Trees And Shrubbery
14-103: Unlawful To Obstruct Sidewalks, Parkways, Streets And Alleys With
Merchandise
14-104: Unlawful To Obstruct Unduly Sidewalks And Streets
14-105: Unlawful To Deposit Trash Upon Streets Or Sidewalks
14-106: Unlawful To Play On Streets
14-107: Vehicles Not To Be Washed On Street
14-108: Water, Mud From Vehicle Not To Drain Into Street
14-109: Water From Filling Stations And Other Businesses
14-110: Owner Or Occupant Not To Permit Sidewalk Or Sidewalk Area To Become A
Hazard
14-111: Street Not To Be Obstructed So As To Interfere With Drainage
14-112: Penalty
14-101: TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO BE TRIMMED:
   A.   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of this town shall
trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and
the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any
part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such
manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient
passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys. When such premises
are occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than fifteen feet (15') above the roadway of a
street or alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk. (Ord. 414,
12-10-2012)
   B.   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim trees
and shrubbery as provided in subsection A of this section, after receiving five
(5) days' notice from the head of the department in charge of streets to do so,
shall be guilty of an offense against the town. Every day that the owner or
occupant shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim the trees or shrubbery, after
the expiration of the five (5) days' notice, shall be a separate offense. (1985
Code)
14-102: UNLAWFUL TO INJURE TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the town; provided that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (1985 Code)
14-103: UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT SIDEWALKS, PARKWAYS, STREETS AND ALLEYS WITH
MERCHANDISE:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or permit to
be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys of the town any
goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction, and leave same
thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or trade. (1985
Code)
14-104: UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT UNDULY SIDEWALKS AND STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the
sidewalks of the town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian
traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the town in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(1985 Code)
14-105: UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT TRASH UPON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or sweep
into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the town any paper,
rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or other
refuse of any kind. (1985 Code)
14-106: UNLAWFUL TO PLAY ON STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the main traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the town, except as may be authorized by ordinance. (1985
Code)
14-107: VEHICLES NOT TO BE WASHED ON STREET:
The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any street of the town is
hereby prohibited. (1985 Code)
14-108: WATER, MUD FROM VEHICLE NOT TO DRAIN INTO STREET:
No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the town
where the water, dirt, mud or other substances removed therefrom by or during
the washing thereof, shall drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of the
town. (1985 Code)
14-109: WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES:
It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place of
business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or
other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking,
street, alley or other public way. (1985 Code)
14-110: OWNER OR OCCUPANT NOT TO PERMIT SIDEWALK OR SIDEWALK AREA TO BECOME A
HAZARD:
It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk
area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become
a hazard to persons using the sidewalk, or sidewalk area. (1985 Code)
14-111: STREET NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED SO AS TO INTERFERE WITH DRAINAGE:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk, or alley, by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water,
into the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon
the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutter. (1985 Code)
14-112: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
PART 15
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
General Provisions And Administration   1
Operation Of Vehicles Generally, Parking
And Speeding   2
General Provisions   2A
Speeding Regulations   2B
Parking Regulations   2C
Turning And Signals   2D
Traffic Signals And Devices   3
Bicycles   4
Impoundment Of Vehicles   5
Penalties   6
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
15-101: Definitions
15-102: Application Of Regulations
15-103: Vehicle Equipment Generally
15-104: Size, Weight Of Vehicles
15-105: Truck Routes
15-106: Securing Loads
15-107: Inspection Of Vehicles By Officers
15-108: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
15-109: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
15-110: Unlawful Riding
15-111: Authorizing Or Permitting Violations Prohibited
15-112: Application To Animal Drawn Vehicles
15-113: Working On Streets; Exceptions
15-114: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-115: Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-116: Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
15-117: Crossing Fire Hose
15-118: Duty Of Police
15-119: Accidents, Duty To Stop, Leaving Scene Of Accident
15-120: Issuance Of Citation Tags
15-121: Failure To Obey Citation
15-122: Failure To Comply With Traffic Citations Attached To Parked Vehicle
15-123: Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citations
15-124: Disposition And Records Of Traffic Citations, Warrants, And Complaints
15-125: Court Records; Abstract To Be Sent To State Department Of Public Safety
15-126: Eluding Police Officer Prohibited
15-127: Adoption Of State Traffic Code
15-128: Insurance Or Certificate Required
15-129: Automobile Safety Belts
15-130: Child Passenger Restraint Systems
15-131: Jake Brakes Prohibited
15-101: DEFINITIONS 1 :
For the purposes of this part, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them. However, for any words and phrases used
in this part which are not defined in this section, but are defined in the laws
of the state regulating traffic, the definition in the laws of the state shall
be deemed to apply to the words and phrases used in this part.
ALLEY: A public passageway or street which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, and having no legal or official name
other than alley.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) or three (3) tandem wheels any of which is more than twenty
inches (20") in diameter.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CURB LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLES: Vehicles of fire departments, police vehicles and
ambulances.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) streets or highways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in
conflict.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean
standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this town.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with this code placed or erected by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
POLICE OFFICER: Any officer of the town police department or any other officer
authorized by law to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two (2) or more separate roadways the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use of pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging
passengers.
STOP: When required, complete cessation from movement. When prohibited, stop or
stopping means any halting even momentarily of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or
signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH STREET: Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield right of way to
vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this part.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes of
travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated by which traffic alternately is directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 1-101 et seq.
15-102: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this part shall apply to every street, highway,
alley, roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, every other public way either
within or outside the corporate limits of the town, the use of which the town
has jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
      2.   Those upon land owned by the town;
      3.   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the town; and
      4.   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the town. (1985 Code)
15-103: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT GENERALLY 1 :
   A.   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped
as required by law. It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the town which is not equipped as
required by law;
      2.   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use
it in a manner prohibited by law; or
      3.   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a
street in the town. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 12-101 et seq.
15-104: SIZE, WEIGHT OF VEHICLES 1 :
No person shall drive on or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the chief of
police. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 14-101 et seq.
15-105: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   The board of trustees, by motion or resolution, may prescribe routes
through the town for the use of trucks passing through the town. It shall see
that appropriate and adequate signs are placed along such routes so that
drivers of such vehicles may follow the routes.
   B.   When such signs are so erected and in place, the driver of a truck or
other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed as provided above, while
passing through the town, shall keep on such route and shall not deviate
therefrom except in cases of emergency. Drivers of such vehicles shall follow
such routes when driving within and not merely through the town except when it
is necessary for them to deviate from the routes for one of the following
reasons:
      1.   When conveying goods, merchandise, or materials to or from
businesses or residences within the town;
      2.   When conveying materials, equipment, supplies, or other necessities
to or from construction sites or job sites within the town;
      3.   When conveying the vehicle itself to or from a garage or repair shop
for service or repair;
      4.   In case of an emergency; (1985 Code)
      5.   a. Parking Permit: The owners of restricted trucks may obtain a
permit from the board of trustees of the town of Shattuck to deviate from
prescribed truck routes for the purpose of conveying a truck itself, excluding
a trailer or trailers, to or from a parking or storage facility on private
property, subject to the provisions that the proposed storage facility and
truck shall be equipped with proper devices for maintaining an adequate heat to
permit the truck to be immediately operable, when started, and further
provided, however, that the truck, when started, shall be immediately removed
from the parking facility; provided further, the parking area shall be no
closer than fifty feet (50') to the buildings of adjoining neighbors and shall
not be used as a repair depot; and provided further that the applicants shall
annually present an approved application form with an application fee of ten
dollars ($10.00) which shall have a signed statement from all adjoining
neighbors expressing approval of the proposed parking. Said permit shall be
null and void after the expiration of one year from date of issue.
         b.   Penalties: The violation of the limitations on parking hereunder
is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus court cost. (Ord. 319, 8-11-1997)
      6.   When the purpose of the deviation is to allow the driver or
passenger of the vehicle to obtain food, lodging, or other necessities at a
commercial establishment within the town, provided that the vehicle shall be
parked at all times in compliance with all provisions of town ordinances.
When a driver of such a vehicle has deviated from the marked route for one of
the above listed reasons, they shall deviate from the route only as far as
necessary to accomplish their reason for deviating. Any deviation in excess of
that which is necessary shall constitute a violation of this code.
   C.   For purposes of this section, a "truck" is hereby defined as being any
vehicle or combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of more
than twenty thousand (20,000) pounds. (1985 Code)
15-106: SECURING LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   C.   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry or agricultural products except baled agricultural products but any
such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom. (1985 Code)
15-107: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES BY OFFICERS:
Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the streets
of the town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is properly
equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair. (1985
Code)
15-108: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS 1 :
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1105.
15-109: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (1985 Code)
15-110: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (1985 Code)
15-111: AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED:
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him,
registered in his name or under his control, to be driven, parked or stopped in
violation of any provision of this part. No parent of any child or guardian of
any ward shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit such child or ward to
violate any provision of this part. (1985 Code)
15-112: APPLICATION TO ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES 1 :
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this part applicable to the driver of any vehicle except those
provisions of this part which by their very nature can have no application.
(1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-104.
15-113: WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Town employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the streets
of the town, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving, or
repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the board of trustees, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction. In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   B.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over, or around the traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
persons while engaged in the construction, maintenance, and repair, or to
persons entering therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons
having their places of residence or places of business within the closed area
may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   C.   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel, or
contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic control
devices to warn and guide the public; and every person using the street shall
obey all signs, signals, markings, flagmen, or other traffic control devices
which are placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area. (1985 Code)
15-114: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES 1 :
The provisions of this part shall not apply to a driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit
of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to, but not
upon returning from, a fire alarm. The exemptions herein granted to an
authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle
while in motion sounds audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may
be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of the vehicle, except
that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
These provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of his
reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-106.
15-115: APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES 1 :
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this state,
or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal
only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the
right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-405.
15-116: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED 1 :
The driver of any vehicle other than on official business shall not follow any
fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred
feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 47 OS § 11-1108(a).
15-117: CROSSING FIRE HOSE 1 :
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department when
laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire, without the consent of the fire department official in command. (1985
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1109.
15-118: DUTY OF POLICE:
The police department shall have the power to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the town in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions. Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or
in the immediate vicinity. (1985 Code)
15-119: ACCIDENTS, DUTY TO STOP, LEAVING SCENE OF ACCIDENT 1 :
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto
as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he has
given his name, address and the registration of his vehicle and shall upon
request exhibit his driver's license to the person injured or the driver or
occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that
this treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person.
Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is apparent
that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a
police officer or to the police department. If a driver makes out a written
report of the accident in the office of the police department as soon as
practicable after the accident, which report is to be forwarded to the state
department of public safety in accordance with state law, the driver shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section.
   C.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 10-101 et seq.
15-120: ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS:
   A.   The chief of police is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and at
least two (2) duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this part.
   B.   Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   C.   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
   E.   The town board of trustees may require that the police officers use
citation tags furnished by the finance department and that such tags are
serially numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(1985 Code)
15-121: FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his written promise to
appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation regardless
of the disposition of the charge for which citation was originally issued.
(1985 Code)
15-122: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATIONS ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE:
If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the clerk of
the municipal court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and
warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five
(5) days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2) or
more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the
traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued
without sending the letter provided in this section. (1985 Code)
15-123: ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any
traffic citation in any manner other than is provided by this chapter. (1985
Code)
15-124: DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS, WARRANTS, AND COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of this town shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the
citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original to
be delivered to the municipal court.
   B.   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
   C.   The chief of police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by
the municipal court which are delivered to the police department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   D.   No member of the police department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint,
or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter. (1985 Code)
15-125: COURT RECORDS; ABSTRACT TO BE SENT TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY:
   A.   The municipal court clerk shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court or its traffic violations bureau in reference
thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
   B.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this chapter or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state department of public safety a
certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   C.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state department
of public safety and shall include the name and address of the party charged,
the number of his operator's or chauffeur's license, the registration number of
the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea,
the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine or
forfeiture. (1985 Code)
15-126: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED:
No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible signal
directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall wilfully increase
his speed or extinguish his lights or in any other manner attempt to or
actually elude such law enforcement officer. A "visual or audible signal" for
the purpose of this section means a red light and a siren from a law
enforcement officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to
be an official police, sheriff, or highway patrol car. (1985 Code)
15-127: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE:
The provisions of the state motor vehicle code, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
1-101 et seq., and the rules of the road, section
10-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and
are enforceable by the town within the town limits as fully as if set out at
length herein. (1985 Code)
15-128: INSURANCE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating the
vehicle within the town's boundaries, shall carry in such vehicle at all times
a current owner's security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been used by the state department of public safety
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   B.   The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or operator's
security verification form or an equivalent form from the department during
operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such form for
vehicle registration purposes:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the department of public
safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self- insurance, or fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the interstate commerce commission, or the Oklahoma corporation commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
    COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in
article VI, chapter 7, and 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 7-606.
   OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor vehicle not
owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
   OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 41 Oklahoma Statutes section
7-204.
   SECURITY: 1. A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1-204;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section
7-503, having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section
7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
   SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the state board for property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
compulsory insurance law of the state of Oklahoma.
   D.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state, shall while
operating or using such vehicle within the city's boundaries, carry either an
operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a carrier,
providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an equivalent
form issued by the department of public safety, reflecting liability coverage.
   E.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department upon request of any peace officer of the department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   F.   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   G.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   H.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk shall forward an abstract to the state department of public safety within
ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court. (1985 Code)
15-129: AUTOMOBILE SAFETY BELTS:
   A.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
this municipality shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt
system, required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured
pursuant to federal motor vehicle safety standard 208. For the purpose of this
section, "passenger car" shall mean "vehicle" as defined in 41 Oklahoma
Statutes section 1102, except that "passenger car" shall not include trucks,
truck-tractors, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles or
vehicles used primarily for farm use and licensed pursuant to the provisions of
section 1134 of title 47.
   B.   This section shall not apply to:
      1.   An operator or passenger of a passenger car in which the operator or
passenger possesses a written verification from a physician licensed in this
state that he is unable to wear a safety seat belt system for medical reasons;
      2.   An operator of motor vehicle who is a route carrier of the U.S.
postal service; or
      3.   Any passenger vehicle which was manufactured or assembled before the
1966 models, unless such vehicle is now equipped with a properly adjusted and
fastened safety seat belt system.
   C.   No law enforcement officer shall make routine stops of motorists for
the purpose of enforcing the requirements of this section.
   D.   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be punished by a
fine of ten dollars ($10.00) or the maximum allowed by state law, and court
costs. (Added 1989)
15-130: CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEMS:
   A.   Every driver, when transporting a child under eight (8) years of age in
a motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of this town,
shall provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child
passenger restraint system as follows:
      1.   A child under four (4) years of age shall be properly secured in a
child passenger restraint system. The child passenger restraint system shall be
rear facing until the child reaches two (2) years of age or until the child
reaches the weight or height limit of the rear facing child passenger restraint
system as allowed by the manufacturer of the child passenger restraint system,
whichever occurs first; and
      2.   A child at least four (4) years of age but younger than eight (8)
years of age, if not taller than four feet nine inches (4'9") in height, shall
be property secured in either a child passenger restraint system or a child
booster seat.
For purposes of this section, "child passenger restraint system" means an
infant or child passenger restraint system which meets the federal standards as
set by 49 CFR section 571.213.
   B.   If a child is eight (8) years of age or is taller than four feet nine
inches (4'9") in height, a seat belt properly secured to the vehicle shall be
sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state
or federal laws;
      2.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
      3.   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in use;
      4.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable to
be placed in such devices, provided there is written documentation from a
physician of such medical reason; or
      5.   The transportation of a child who weighs more than forty (40) pounds
and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a
lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than forty (40) pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this
paragraph, back seat shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a
vehicle operated by a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided further,
there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight
requirements of this paragraph if at the request of any law enforcement
officer, the licensed childcare facility or church provides the officer with a
written statement verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child
weighs more than forty (40) pounds.
   D.   A violation of the provisions of this section shall be admissible as
evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages unless the plaintiff in
such action or proceeding is a child under sixteen (16) years of age.
In any action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal injuries or
wrongful death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure of any
person to have the infant properly restrained in accordance with the provisions
of this section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of damages.
   E.   A person who is certified as a child passenger safety technician and
who in good faith provides inspection, adjustment, or educational services
regarding child passenger restraint systems shall not be liable for civil
damages resulting from any act of omission in providing such services, other
than acts or omissions constituting gross negligence or wilful or wanton
misconduct.
   F.   Any person convicted of violating subsection A of this section shall be
punished by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) and shall pay all court costs
thereof. Revenue from such fine shall be apportioned to the department of
public safety restricted revolving fund and used by the Oklahoma highway safety
office to promote the use of child passenger restraint systems as provided in
47 Oklahoma Statutes 11-1113. The fine shall be suspended and the court costs
limited to a maximum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) in the case of the first
offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition by loan of a child passenger
restraint system. Provided, the department of public safety shall not assess
points to the driving record of any person convicted of a violation of this
section. (Ord. 431, 10-13-2015, eff. 11-1-2015)
15-131: JAKE BRAKES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and an offense within the town limits for any person,
firm, or corporation, to use vehicle or trailer brakes which create an
excessive or unusual noise such as is created by the use of "jake" brakes.
(Ord. 299, 11-28-1994, eff. 11-28-1994)
Any person, firm, association, corporation, or copartnership, who violates any
of the provisions hereof shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed the sum of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) and costs as provided by law. (Ord. 299, 11-28-1994,
eff. 11-28-1994; amd. Ord. 322, 2-9-1998)
CHAPTER 2
OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY, PARKING AND SPEEDING
SECTION:
   Article A. General Provisions
15-201: Operation Of Vehicles Generally
15-202: Driver's License Required
15-203: Vehicle License Required
15-204: Unlicensed Vehicles
15-205: Display Of Inspection Sticker (Rep. by Ord. 430, 10-13-2015, eff. 11-1-
2015)
15-206: Starting A Parked Vehicle
15-207: Drive On Right Side Of Roadway; Exceptions
15-208: Right Of Way Generally
15-209: Vehicle Turning Left
15-210: Reckless Driving
15-211: Driving Under The Influence Of Intoxicating Liquor Or Narcotics
15-212: Driving On Sidewalk
15-213: Limitations On Backing
15-214: Corner Cutting
15-215: Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building
15-216: Golf Carts And Utility Vehicles
   Article B. Speeding Regulations
15-220: General Rule For Speed Regulations
15-221: General Maximum Speed Limit
   Article C. Parking Regulations
15-230: Obstructing Traffic Or Driveways
15-231: Park Within Indicated Space
15-232: Proximity To Curb, Parallel Parking
15-233: Angle Parking
15-234: Obedience To Angle Parking Rules
15-235: Parking Prohibitions In Specific Areas
15-236: Parking Prohibitions On Certain Streets, More Than Twenty Four Hours
15-237: Designation Of Loading Zones
15-238: Standing In Loading Zone
15-239: Prohibition Against Selling Merchandise From Parked Vehicles
15-240: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
15-241: Handicapped Parking, Enforcement On Public Or Private Property
15-242: Parking On Municipal Streets, Rights Of Way, And Alleys
   Article D. Turning And Signals
15-250: Required Position; Method Of Turning At Intersections
15-251: Turns And U-Turns
15-252: Turning, Stopping Signals Required
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
15-201: OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY 1 :
Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians,
and property of others. (1985 Code)
15-202: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED 2 :
It is unlawful for any person who does not have a driver's license, as required
by state law for operation of a vehicle upon the state highways, to operate a
motor vehicle within the town, or to operate a motor vehicle within the town in
violation of any restriction applied to the driver's license. (1985 Code)
15-203: VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall drive, propel, move, or park on the streets of this town any
motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer unless the motor vehicle, trailer, or
semitrailer is licensed as required by state law and the license is
conspicuously displayed thereon. (1985 Code)
15-204: UNLICENSED VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle not bearing a current
motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street or highway within the town.
(1985 Code)
15-205: DISPLAY OF INSPECTION STICKER:
(Rep. by Ord. 430, 10-13-2015, eff. 11-1-2015)
15-206: STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety. (1985 Code)
15-207: DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS 3 :
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement; or
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   B.   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane when available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (1985 Code)
15-208: RIGHT OF WAY GENERALLY:
The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the right of
way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different street,
provided that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state or
federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different highways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall
yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right. (1985 Code)
15-209: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT 4 :
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn left shall
yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but the driver, having so yielded and having given a signal
when and as required by this part, may make such left turn, and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from such opposite direction
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (1985 Code)
15-210: RECKLESS DRIVING:
   A.   Dangerous Rate Of Speed: It shall be deemed reckless driving for any
person to drive a motor vehicle in a careless or wanton manner without regard
for the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or dangerous rate of
speed.
   B.   Use Of Cellular Telephone Or Electronic Communication Device By A
Person Operating A Commercial Motor Vehicle:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a commercial motor
vehicle or for a public transit driver to operate a motor vehicle on any street
or highway within the town limits while:
         a.   Using a cellular telephone or electronic communication device to
write, send, or read a text based communication; or
         b.   Using a handheld mobile telephone while operating a commercial
motor vehicle.
For the purposes of this subsection B1 and subsection B3e of this section,
using a handheld mobile telephone is permissible by drivers of a commercial
motor vehicle when necessary to communicate with law enforcement officials or
other emergency services.
      2.   Any person who violates the provisions of subsection A of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine
of not more than the state will allow.
      3.   As used in this subsection B:
         a.   "Cellular telephone" means an analog or digital wireless
telephone authorized by the federal communications commission to operate in the
frequency bandwidth reserved for cellular telephones.
         b.   "Electronic communication device" means an electronic device that
permits the user to manually transmit a communication of written text by means
other than through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not
include a voice activated global positioning or navigation system that is
affixed to a motor vehicle.
         c.   "Operate" means operating on a street or highway, including while
temporarily stationary because of traffic, traffic control device or other
momentary delays. Operating does not include when the driver of a commercial
motor vehicle has moved the vehicle to the side of or off a street or highway
and has halted in a location where the vehicle can safely remain stationary.
         d.   "Public transit driver" means:
            (1)   Any operator of a public transit vehicle owned and operated
by the state of Oklahoma, any public trust authority, county, municipality,
town or city within this state,
            (2)   Any operator of a school bus or multipassenger motor vehicle
owned and approved to operate by the state department of education or any
school district within this state.
         e.   "Write, send, or read a text based communication", also known as
texting, means manually entering alphanumeric text into, sending text or
reading text from, an electronic device, and includes, but is not limited to,
short message service (SMS), e-mailing, instant messaging (IM), a command or
request to access a world wide web page, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication. As
used in this definition, texting does not include:
            (1)   Using voice commands to select or enter a telephone number,
an extension number, or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an
electronic device for the purpose of initiating or receiving a phone call,
            (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system, or
            (3)   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions for a
purpose that is not otherwise prohibited in this part, including, but not
limited to, fleet management systems, dispatching devices, smart phones,
citizens band radios, and music players.
   C.   Texting And Driving:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on
any street or highway within this state while using a handheld electronic
communication device to manually compose, send or read an electronic text
message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
      2.   Any person who violates the provisions of subsection C1 of this
section shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine set by the town board by
motion or resolution.
      3.   The department of public safety shall not record or assess points
for violations of this section on any license holder's traffic record
maintained by the department.
      4.   The provisions of subsection C1 of this section shall not apply if
the person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communications device
for the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an
imminent emergency situation:
         a.   An emergency response operator;
         b.   A hospital, physician's office or health clinic;
         c.   A provider of ambulance services;
         d.   A provider of firefighting services; or
         e.   A law enforcement agency.
      5.   For the purpose of this subsection C:
         a.   "Cellular telephone" means an analog or digital wireless
telephone authorized by the federal communications commission to operate in the
frequency bandwidth reserved for cellular telephones.
         b.   "Compose", "send" or "read" with respect to a text message means
the manual entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with
any person or device.
         c.   "Electronic communication device" means an electronic device that
permits the user to manually transmit a communication of written text by means
other than through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not
include a device which is physically or electronically integrated into a motor
vehicle or a voice operated global positioning or navigation system that is
affixed to a motor vehicle, or a hands free device that allows the user to
write, send or read a text message without the use of either hand except to
activate, deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
         d.   "Text message" includes a text based message, instant message,
electronic message, photo, video or electronic mail. (Ord. 430, 10-13-2015,
eff. 11-1-2015)
15-211: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR NARCOTICS 5 :
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor to drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle within this town.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana, or who is
under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him incapable
of safely driving a motor vehicle to drive a motor vehicle within this town.
The fact that any person charged with a violation of this subsection is or has
been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate, amphetamine,
marijuana, or other drug shall not constitute a defense against any charge of
violating this subsection. (1985 Code)
15-212: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway. (1985 Code)
15-213: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic. (1985
Code)
15-214: CORNER CUTTING:
No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any parking
facility except with the intent of availing himself or herself of the services
offered on the premises served by the service drive or parking facility. No
person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across any parking
facility for the purpose of shortening their travel distance, avoiding a
traffic control device, avoiding using the streets for travel, or turning a
vehicle so as to proceed in opposite direction on the street from which it
entered the drive. (1985 Code)
15-215: EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING 6 :
The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging from
an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. (1985 Code)
15-216: GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to operate a golf
cart or utility vehicle upon the streets, rights of way, and alleys of the town
of Shattuck, Ellis County, Oklahoma, in violation of the conditions herein
imposed. (Ord. 365, 8-13-2007)
      1.   The term "utility vehicle" is hereby defined to be a motorized
vehicle used by persons, firms, corporations or limited liability companies and
would include "gators", "mules", and similar vehicles that are designed as slow
moving vehicles. (Ord. 438, 9-12-2016, eff. 9-12-2016)
      2.   It is further provided that the aforesaid vehicles may cross over
the state and federal rights of way within the town of Shattuck, provided,
however, that the travel thereon is hereby prohibited.
      3.   It is further provided that any person, firm or corporation desiring
to operate either of the aforesaid vehicles must first obtain a permit from the
town clerk. The fee for such permit shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per annum.
      4.   Before obtaining the aforesaid permit, the owner shall:
         a.   Obtain a valid driver's license from the state of Oklahoma.
         b.   Install decals designating the vehicle as a slow moving vehicle
in conformity with 47 Oklahoma Statutes.
         c.   File with the town clerk proof of liability insurance as required
by the statutes of the state of Oklahoma.
      5.   It is further provided that such vehicle shall not be operated at a
speed in excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      6.   It is further provided that said vehicles shall be operated only
during daylight hours as prescribed by 47 Oklahoma Statutes, which is thirty
(30) minutes prior to sunrise and thirty (30) minutes after sunset.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply
with any ordinance provision of this section or any legal order or regulation
made pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Ord. 365, 8-13-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §
  11-101 et seq.
2 2. 47 OS §
  6-101 et seq.
3 1. 47 OS § 11-301.
4 2. 47 OS § 11-402.
5 1. 47 OS § 11-902.
6 1. 47 OS § 11-704.
ARTICLE B. SPEEDING REGULATIONS
15-220: GENERAL RULE FOR SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
any other condition then existing. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within
the assured clear distance ahead.
   B.   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
subsection A of this section, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
driving upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway
conditions. (1985 Code)
15-221: GENERAL MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT:
No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this chapter, shall be
driven at a speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour upon any street
within this town. The board of trustees may determine that certain other speed
regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in
which event it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed
in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place giving notice
thereof. (1985 Code)
ARTICLE C. PARKING REGULATIONS
15-230: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DRIVEWAYS:
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1985 Code)
15-231: PARK WITHIN INDICATED SPACE:
In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delineating a space. (1985 Code)
15-232: PROXIMITY TO CURB, PARALLEL PARKING:
Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall be so stopped or parked in
the direction of lawful traffic movement with the curbside wheels of the
vehicle parallel to and within eighteen inches (18") of the curb or roadway
edge. (1985 Code)
15-233: ANGLE PARKING 1 :
The board of trustees may determine upon what streets angle parking is
permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the streets. Angle parking
shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where passing traffic would
thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side of the street. "Angle
parking", for the purpose of this part, shall mean parking at the curb at
approximately a forty five degree (45°) angle between the right side of the
vehicle and the curb. (1985 Code)
15-234: OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING RULES:
   A.   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings with the front of the
vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually marked space. The vehicle shall not be
of such length, or positioned in a manner, as to protrude into the street a
distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes or drive
on the left side of the street. (1985 Code)
15-235: PARKING PROHIBITIONS IN SPECIFIC AREAS 2 :
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street except as authorized otherwise in this section;
         b.   On a sidewalk;
         c.   Within an intersection;
         d.   On a crosswalk;
         e.   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         f.   On any railroad tracks; or
         g.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
or
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway;
         b.   Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant;
         c.   Within ten feet (10') of a crosswalk at an intersection; except
in marked parking spaces;
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station; or
         f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
   B.   Any business, garage or filling station duly licensed by the state and/
or town may reserve such portions along the curb in front of their
establishments as is necessary to be used by them or their customers in the
conduct of their business. Those desiring to avail themselves of the benefits
of this subsection shall provide markers on the curb designating the space so
reserved at their own expense. (1985 Code)
15-236: PARKING PROHIBITIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS, MORE THAN TWENTY FOUR HOURS:
   A.   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle at any time upon any of the designated streets, except
when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device.
   B.   No vehicle shall be parked, stored, stood or otherwise left on any
street in the town for a period of time longer than twenty four (24) hours.
(1985 Code)
15-237: DESIGNATION OF LOADING ZONES:
The board of trustees may determine the location of passenger and freight curb
loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the
same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable. (1985 Code)
15-238: STANDING IN LOADING ZONE:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes.
   B.   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
   C.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone. (1985 Code)
15-239: PROHIBITION AGAINST SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM PARKED VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street in the town and
offer merchandise for sale therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided in
this part, the sale of merchandise from parked vehicles on streets in the town
is declared to be dangerous to traffic and to the persons congregating around
the vehicle and constitutes a public nuisance. (1985 Code)
15-240: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   B.   The presumption in subsection A of this section shall apply only when
the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed. (1985 Code)
15-241: HANDICAPPED PARKING, ENFORCEMENT ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY 3 :
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such
person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section
15-112, and such insignias are displayed as provided in 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section
15-112 or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable
by a fine as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
15-242: PARKING ON MUNICIPAL STREETS, RIGHTS OF WAY, AND ALLEYS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park on the
municipal streets and alleys of the town of Shattuck, Oklahoma, campers,
automotive vehicles not in running order, motor homes, recreational vehicles,
motor trucks, fifth wheelers, moving vans, and any other vehicle other than as
provided as follows:
      1.   It is further provided that none of such vehicles shall be parked in
such a manner that any portion thereof shall extend beyond the property line of
individual property owners and into the intersection of dedicated streets.
      2.   It is further provided that automotive vehicles not in running order
shall not be parked in the streets and alleys in excess of a reasonable amount
of time to permit the removal thereof or the repair of such vehicles.
      3.   It is further provided that the parking of any vehicle shall be in
accordance with the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes 11-1001 et seq.
      4.   It is further provided that the parking of campers, motor homes,
recreational vehicles, and fifth wheelers shall not be permitted in excess of
five (5) days for those out of town guests visiting resident relatives.
      5.   It is further provided that parking of any type of trailer or moving
van shall be permitted for only such period of time to receive from or deliver
to residents thereof merchandise as is reasonable and proper.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply
with any ordinance provision of this section or any legal order or regulation
made pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Ord. 364, 7-9-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1004(c).
2 1. 47 OS § 11-1003.
3 1. 47 OS §
  15-112.
ARTICLE D. TURNING AND SIGNALS
15-250: REQUIRED POSITION; METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS 1 :
   A.   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway; or
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering the intersection
the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn
shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of
the intersection. (1985 Code)
15-251: TURNS AND U-TURNS 2 :
   A.   The board of trustees may determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn, and shall place
proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when
such turns are permitted.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign. (1985 Code)
15-252: TURNING, STOPPING SIGNALS REQUIRED 3 :
   A.   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon giving
a signal of intention, as provided in this section, in the event any other
traffic may be affected by such movement.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   C.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle except
upon the giving of a signal of intention, as provided herein, to the driver of
any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to give such
signal. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-601.
2 1. 47 OS §
  15-102(a).
3 2. 47 OS § 11-604.
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
SECTION:
15-301: Obedience To Devices
15-302: Necessity Of Signs
15-303: Interference With Devices, Or Signs Or Signals
15-304: Presumption Of Legality
15-305: Ratification Of Existing Devices
15-306: Traffic Control Signal Legend
15-307: Flashing Signals
15-308: Driving Within Traffic Lanes
15-309: One-Way Streets, Alleys Designation
15-310: Designation Of Through Streets
15-311: Signs At Through Streets
15-312: Procedures At Stop Signs
15-313: Procedure At Yield Signs
15-301: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES 1 :
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of
this part unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
part. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-201(a).
15-302: NECESSITY OF SIGNS 1 :
No provision of this part for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-201(b).
15-303: INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, OR SIGNS OR SIGNALS 1 :
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 47 OS § 11-207.
15-304: PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY:
   A.   Whenever official traffic control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   B.   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence. (1985
Code)
15-305: RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES:
All traffic control signals, devices and markings placed or erected prior to
the adoption of this part and in use for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be official
traffic control devices, provided such traffic control devices are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law. (1985 Code)
15-306: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting different
colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time or in
combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights shall indicate
appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as provided
by applicable state law. (1985 Code)
15-307: FLASHING SIGNALS 1 :
   A.   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows:
      1.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; or
      2.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   B.   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-204.
15-308: DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES 1 :
   A.   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   B.   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others
consistent herewith, shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety;
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation; and
      3.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-309.
15-309: ONE-WAY STREETS, ALLEYS DESIGNATION 1 :
   A.   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this town designates any one-
way street or alley the appropriate town personnel shall place and maintain
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   B.   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated
as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected
and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction
is prohibited. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS §§ 11-308, 15-102(a).
15-310: DESIGNATION OF THROUGH STREETS 1 :
The board of trustees, by motion or resolution, may designate any street or
part of a street a through street. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 15-108.
15-311: SIGNS AT THROUGH STREETS:
Whenever a through street is designated by the board of trustees, the
appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and maintain a stop sign,
or on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any intersection
a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through street unless
traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic control
signals. (1985 Code)
15-312: PROCEDURES AT STOP SIGNS 1 :
   A.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   B.   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right of way to the vehicle so proceeding. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS §§ 11-403(b), 11-703(d).
15-313: PROCEDURE AT YIELD SIGNS 1 :
The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, or if no stop line, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway. The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the right
of way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving,
and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may
proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding, provided, however, that if such
driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle
in the intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such
collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his failure to yield right of
way. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 47 OS §§ 11-403(c), 11-703(c).
CHAPTER 4
BICYCLES
SECTION:
15-401: Regulations Applicable Generally
15-402: Traffic Laws And Regulations Apply
15-403: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
15-404: Riding On Bicycles
15-405: Use Right Side Of Roadway
15-406: Riding Abreast
15-407: Speed
15-408: Riding On Sidewalks
15-409: Lights And Reflectors
15-401: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE GENERALLY 1 :
It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any act required
by the provisions of this chapter. The parent of any child or the guardian of
any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to
violate any of the provisions of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter
are applicable to bicycles operated upon any street or highway or upon any path
set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1201.
15-402: TRAFFIC LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLY 1 :
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by
the traffic ordinances of this town applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of law and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-1202.
15-403: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official traffic
control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer. Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a
bicycle shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person
dismounts from the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event such person
shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians. Any person may walk
bicycles and shall then be subject to all laws applicable to pedestrians. (1985
Code)
15-404: RIDING ON BICYCLES 1 :
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS § 11-1203.
15-405: USE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the right
side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing
vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction. (1985 Code)
15-406: RIDING ABREAST:
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2) abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. (1985 Code)
15-407: SPEED:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (1985 Code)
15-408: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk within the town. (1985 Code)
15-409: LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS 1 :
Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the state department of public safety, which shall be visible from
all distances from three hundred feet (300') to fifty feet (50') to the rear
when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500')
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 47 OS § 11-1207(a).
CHAPTER 5
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
15-501: Purpose And Effect Of Impoundment Provisions
15-502: Place Of Impoundment
15-503: Duration Of Impoundment
15-504: Police Granted Authority To Impound Vehicles
15-505: Disabled Vehicles
15-506: Vehicles On Bridge
15-507: Arrest And Detention Of Driver Of Vehicle
15-508: Vehicle Constitutes Traffic Hazard
15-509: Illegal Trespass By Vehicle
15-510: Vehicles Parked Overtime
15-511: Vehicles Blocking Fire Exits Or Hydrants
15-512: Vehicles Parked In Intersection
15-513: Stolen Vehicles; Recovery By Police
15-514: Vehicles With Outstanding Traffic Citations
15-515: Inventory Of Impounded Vehicles
15-501: PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS 1 :
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (1985 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 47 OS §§ 954A, 955.
15-502: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the town
board of trustees, and to no other place. (1985 Code)
15-503: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority
of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release
is received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau or other proper
police officer.
   B.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle. (1985 Code)
15-504: POLICE GRANTED AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter. (1985 Code)
15-505: DISABLED VEHICLES:
   A.   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
      1.   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
      2.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated
to such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(1985 Code)
15-506: VEHICLES ON BRIDGE:
An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway or in any tube
or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hazard,
may be impounded. (1985 Code)
15-507: ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE:
Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest
and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which leaves
or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle may be
impounded. (1985 Code)
15-508: VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD:
A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic shall be impounded. (1985 Code)
15-509: ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE:
   A.   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this code may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   B.   If a violation of the provisions of this code occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner's or legal occupant's property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   C.   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this code
have been violated, the police department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage. (1985 Code)
15-510: VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME:
Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in excess
of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of this code regarding more than twenty four (24)
hours, shall be impounded. (1985 Code)
15-511: VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS:
Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded. (1985 Code)
15-512: VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION:
Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection, with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing. (1985 Code)
15-513: STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE:
   A.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered owner
cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or cannot be
determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in the
vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen cars,
the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place of impoundment and
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police department.
   B.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one hour
from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified, the
vehicle may be impounded. (1985 Code)
15-514: VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
Any vehicle for which two (2) or more citations have been issued, for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this part. (1985 Code)
15-515: INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two (2) or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his property, the protection of
town law enforcement personnel, and the protection of the garage or wrecker
service moving or holding the vehicle. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PENALTIES
SECTION:
15-601: Penalty For Violations
15-601: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any violations of the provisions of this part shall be punishable as provided
in section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
PART 16
TRANSPORTATION
Railroads   1
CHAPTER 1
RAILROADS
SECTION:
16-101: Railroads To Improve Streets And Alleys
16-102: Sidewalks To Be Constructed By Railroads
16-103: Climbing On Train In Motion
16-104: Trains Blocking Streets
16-105: Trespassing
16-106: Loitering
16-107: Penalty
16-101: RAILROADS TO IMPROVE STREETS AND ALLEYS:
When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks running in a
general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto, the railway
company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet (2') on either
side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to be, or
has been, improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the council by
motion or resolution may approve. In case any railway company shall occupy an
alley with its track or tracks, such company shall improve, gutter, drain, and
grade such alley, and shall surface or pave it with the same material which is
to be, or has been, used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material
as the board by motion or resolution may approve. When the tracks of any
railroad company cross any street that is being or has been paved, the company
shall pave as much of the street as is occupied by its track or tracks and two
feet (2') on each side, using the same material as is to be, or has been, used
on the street, or such other satisfactory material as the board by motion or
resolution may approve. When more than one track crosses a street within a
distance of one hundred feet (100'), measuring from inside rail to inside rail,
the railroad company shall grade, gutter, drain, and curb the street area
between its tracks, and surface or pave it with the same material which the
town is to use or has used, on the street. Railroad companies shall keep all
such improvements made by them in a good state of repair at all times. (1985
Code)
16-102: SIDEWALKS TO BE CONSTRUCTED BY RAILROADS:
Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights of way, using
the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the streets when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company shall
keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times. (1985 Code)
16-103: CLIMBING ON TRAIN IN MOTION:
It shall be an offense for any person, other than a railroad employee, to climb
upon, hold onto or in any manner attach himself to any locomotive engine or car
upon a railroad track while such locomotive engine or car is in motion. (Ord.
301, 3-11-1996)
16-104: TRAINS BLOCKING STREETS:
It shall be an offense for any person to obstruct any portion of a street by
stopping or standing any cars or train of cars of any kind or any locomotive
engine so as to prevent the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles of any kind
for more than five (5) minutes at any time. It shall be an offense for any
person to obstruct any federal highway passing through the town of Shattuck,
Oklahoma, at any time, by stopping, standing, marshaling, or switching any cars
or train of cars of any kind or any locomotive engine so as to prevent the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles of any kind. Any conductor, engineer,
fireman or any other person who shall operate or assist to operate any cars or
engines which shall so obstruct any of such streets or who shall make a flying
switch shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine as established in section
16-107 of this chapter. (Ord. 301, 3-11-1996)
16-105: TRESPASSING:
It shall be an offense for any person, other than a railroad employee, to
stand, walk, sit, run, or recline upon a railroad track or right of way. (Ord.
301, 3-11-1996)
16-106: LOITERING:
It shall be an offense for any person, without right, to loiter or remain
within a railroad station building, upon a railroad station platform or upon a
railroad right of way after being requested to leave the railroad station,
building, railroad platform, railroad ground or railroad right of way by an
employee of the person operating such railroad. (Ord. 301, 3-11-1996)
16-107: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided for herein, every person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred dollars
($200.00), including costs. (Ord. 301, 3-11-1996; amd. Ord. 322, 2-9-1998)
PART 17
UTILITIES
General Provisions   1
Water Service   2
Sewer System And Use   3
Refuse Collection   4
Grease Traps And Grease Interceptors   5
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
17-101: Utility Service Required
17-102: Separate Service
17-103: Bills, When Payable, Delinquency, Disconnection Of Service
17-104: Rights Reserved To Interrupt Service
17-105: Damaging Equipment
17-106: Tampering With Meters Unlawful
17-107: Procedure For Governing Board To Set Utility Rates And Charges
17-108: Utility Fees And Billings In General
17-101: UTILITY SERVICE REQUIRED:
   A.   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to have his premises
connected with any of the town's utilities, water, sewer, or trash collection,
shall make application and sign a contract therefor upon a printed form to be
furnished for that purpose, and shall pay the regular fees and deposits for
installation of the service. (1985 Code)
   B.   1. Each, every and all established residence, business, commercial and/
or industrial enterprise located within and operating within the town of
Shattuck, Oklahoma, shall subscribe for and pay monthly for each, every and all
services for garbage, rubbish and trash, sanitary sewer and water that the town
is capable of providing.
      2.   An "established residence" is hereby defined to be any dwelling
occupied for a period in excess of one month, including mobile homes, travel
trailers, motor homes and apartments which are all serviced by only one meter.
      3.   The charge for such services shall be as provided in this part. In
the event that any resident and/or proprietor of any business, commercial and/
or industrial enterprise has not subscribed for and is not using any water, the
minimum charge shall apply in each and every such instance.
      4.   Failure to subscribe for and pay monthly for the services enumerated
above shall be a misdemeanor punishable as provided by section
10-701 of this code. (Ord. 376, 3-10-2008)
   C.   Any and all persons, firms or corporations conducting a place of
business, including home based businesses, within the limits of the town of
Shattuck, Oklahoma, shall file with the town clerk a copy of the sales tax
permit issued to such person, firm or corporation by the Oklahoma tax
commission.
   D.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter, shall upon conviction thereof be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Every day's violation of this section shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 331, 3-13-2000; amd. Ord. 376, 3-10-2008)
17-102: SEPARATE SERVICE:
Every separate premises supplied must have its own separate service connection
with the mains or lines, and the premises so supplied shall not be allowed to
supply water, or sewer to any other premises. (1985 Code)
17-103: BILLS, WHEN PAYABLE, DELINQUENCY, DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   1. Payment Date: The date for payment for services for water, sewer and
trash collections is and shall be the tenth day of each month.
      2.   Late Fee: A fee of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid bill shall be
assessed upon any bill not paid by the due date.
      3.   Cutoff Notice: If the bill for services is not paid by the tenth day
of each month, a notice shall be issued to the customer advising that services
will be discontinued if not paid on the seventeenth. (Ord. 391, 6-16-2010)
      4.   Reconnection: If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected
pursuant to this section, the town, or its agents, shall not reconnect or
reestablish the service until the full amount of any outstanding utility
service bill is paid, plus the penalty provided in this section, plus any
applicable charges or expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service,
including a twenty five dollar ($25.00) administration fee in the event that
the total amount due is not paid by the hour and day the same is due. Said
administration fee shall be added to the next ensuing utility bill. (1985 Code;
amd. Ord. 377, 7-9-2008; Ord. 399, 12-15-2011)
      5.   Payment Arrangements: To avoid termination of services, a customer
may contact the water clerk or town administrator to discuss payment options.
Based on a customer's prior payment history an arrangement may or may not be
granted. If an extension is granted, it shall be reduced to writing and provide
for the payment of the entire amount due for services and late fees no later
than the next ensuing payment date when all services for that date must be paid
in full. Failure to pay all amounts then due shall result in termination of
services without further notice. No more than two (2) extensions shall be
granted in any twelve (12) month period and no extension that is consecutive to
a prior extension shall be considered. (Ord. 391, 6-16-2010)
      6.   Fee For After Hours Service Call: There is hereby enacted a twenty
five dollar ($25.00) fee for after hours services. "After hours" is hereby
defined as four o'clock (4:00) P.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. weekdays and
four o'clock (4:00) P.M. Friday to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Monday and also
including national holidays. (Ord. 399, 12-15-2011)
   B.   The town clerk-treasurer may not accept payment of a water bill without
payment of the sewer service charge, nor shall the clerk accept payment of a
sewer bill without payment of the water bill. The failure to pay any utility
bill in accordance with this section shall be grounds for discontinuing any or
all of the utility services furnished to the customer whose bill is delinquent.
(1985 Code)
17-104: RIGHTS RESERVED TO INTERRUPT SERVICE:
The town reserves the right to shut off the supply of water without notice, for
repairs, extensions, nonpayment of rates, or for any other reason, and no
liability shall attach therefrom. (1985 Code)
17-105: DAMAGING EQUIPMENT:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to destroy or injure any water
pipe, hydrant, faucet, pole, or other sewer or water equipment erected or
placed by or belonging to the town. (1985 Code)
17-106: TAMPERING WITH METERS UNLAWFUL:
The tampering with water meters or meter boxes of the town, or the placing of
any bypass connection on or around the meters, or the use of any other device
tending to interfere with the proper registration of same is unlawful. (1985
Code)
17-107: PROCEDURE FOR GOVERNING BOARD TO SET UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES:
The board of trustees of the town shall establish future rates, charges,
deposits, and fees for utility services by ordinance, motion or resolution, as
the case may be. A copy of the current rates and charges shall be available in
the town clerk-treasurer's office. (1985 Code)
17-108: UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL:
All fees and charges in connection with any customer's use of the town's
sanitary sewer system, the town's water facility system, or the operation of
the town's collection and disposal of refuse and garbage are billed in
accordance with applicable rates set as provided in section
17-107 of this chapter. All fees and charges owing for any of these utility
services shall be billed on one monthly bill submitted to the customer each
month. (1985 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
17-201: Application To Make Connection To Water Mains
17-202: Connections To Be Made In Accordance With Ordinance And Law
17-203: Water Deposit Required
17-204: Contract For Water Service
17-205: Estimate Of Bill
17-206: Water Service Rates
17-207: Water Department
17-208: Deposits Prior To Connection, Reconnection Fees
17-209: Unlawful Connections
17-210: Town Not Responsible For Maintenance On Private Property
17-211: Property Owners Or Water Users To Maintain Plumbing System In
Responsible State Of Repair
17-212: Water Shortages, Declaration Of Emergency
17-213: Restriction On Water Use In Emergency
17-214: Proclamation And Notice Of Emergency
17-215: Grievances With Water Restrictions
17-216: Penalties
17-217: Water Wells
17-201: APPLICATION TO MAKE CONNECTION TO WATER MAINS:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to make a connection to a water main
of the Town is required to file a written application with the Town Clerk to
make the connection and requiring that a tap be purchased and installed by a
qualified employee of the Town. The fee will cover tapping into the water
lines, including installation of a meter, meter box, fittings, and a service
line to the property line. (Ord. 451, 10-9-2018)
17-202: CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ORDINANCE AND LAW:
Any person, firm or corporation who connects to the water mains of the Town in
violation of this chapter or other ordinances of the Town or the laws of the
State will be denied further water service until such ordinances and laws are
complied with. (1985 Code; amended 1991)
17-203: WATER DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
Any person who desires to use water shall put up with the Town Clerk, as a
meter deposit, the amount which is established. The Board of Trustees may
establish classifications of customers, such as residences, mobile homes, and
various types of businesses, for different deposit requirements. (1985 Code;
amended 1991)
17-204: CONTRACT FOR WATER SERVICE:
   A.   The application for water service shall contain a contract on the part
of the person making the application:
      1.   To pay for the water consumed at the rate prescribed by ordinance at
the time the water is consumed;
      2.   To recognize the right of the Town to change the rate by ordinance
at any time;
      3.   To recognize the right of the Town temporarily to discontinue water
service at any time without notice to the consumer, to install, repair or
remove a water meter or for any other proper cause;
      4.   Stating that the contract is subject to all the ordinances in effect
at the time of making the contract and which may be passed and go into effect
thereafter;
      5.   Stating that the Town shall not be responsible for any damage by
water or other cause resulting from defective plumbing or appliances, and that
the fact that an agent of the Town has inspected plumbing or appliances shall
not be pleaded as a basis for recovery in case of damage to the premises from
defective plumbing or appliances installed by the owner or occupant of such
premises;
      6.   Providing that the Town shall not be liable for damages resulting
from the interruption or failure of the supply of water, regardless of the
cause thereof; and that such failure for any reasonable period of time shall
not be held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the Town nor
relieve the consumer from performing the obligations of his contract; and
      7.   Providing that the water deposit, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, may be retained by the Town and applied by the Town on any unpaid
water bill of the consumer; and providing further that unless the water deposit
is claimed by the consumer after the consumer ceases to use the water or after
the water is turned off for any cause by the Town, in the time period provided
by State law, then the consumer forfeits all right, title or interest in and to
the water deposit. (1985 Code; amended 1991)
17-205: ESTIMATE OF BILL:
In all cases where meters or meter boxes are lost, injured or broken by wilful
action or by carelessness or negligence of owners or occupants of premises,
they shall be replaced or repaired at the expense of the owner or occupant. In
case of nonpayment, the water shall be cut off and will not be turned on until
such charges are paid. In the event of a meter getting out of order or failing
to register properly, the consumer shall be charged on an estimate made by the
Water Superintendent of the average monthly consumption during the last three
(3) months when the meter was in good condition or from what he may consider to
be the most reliable data at his command. (1985 Code; amended 1991)
17-206: WATER SERVICE RATES:
   A.   Water Service Charge Established: There is hereby established a water
service charge to be paid by each consumer of water from the water system of
the Town of Shattuck, Oklahoma, based on the actual gallons of water metered to
each customer. (Ord. 401, 1-10-2012)
   B.   Rates:
      1.   The following shall constitute the established water service charge
to consumers of water from the water system of the Town of Shattuck, payable
monthly effective with the September 2018 billing:
 
First 2,000 gallons of water usage    $23.00 (minimum fee)
All water utilized over 2,000 gallons $1.56 per 1,000 gallons per month
 
First two thousand (2,000) gallons for minimum charge of twenty three dollars
($23.00) will increase two percent (2%) of established rate for each fiscal
year following. The two percent (2%) increase will start with the September
water billing and subsequent fiscal years thereafter.
      2.   The water rate for those customers receiving services from the Town
of Shattuck, Oklahoma for services rendered outside of the corporate limits of
the Town, shall be the same as within the corporate limits.
   C.   Yard Meter Service Charge:
      1.   Yard Meter Defined: The term "yard meter" is hereby defined as each
water meter in addition to the primary meter which has been or may hereafter be
installed for service to homes, businesses and other entities which have
commonly been referred to as yard meters.
      2.   Service Charge:
         a.   In addition to the charges for water service provided for in
subsection B of this section, for services to the primary meter in homes,
businesses and other entities, there is hereby established a water service
charge to be paid by each consumer of water from the water system of the Town
of Shattuck to and through each and every additional yard meter, based on the
actual gallons of water used and metered through said yard meters.
         b.   The following shall constitute the established water service
charge to consumers of water from the water system of the Town of Shattuck,
payable monthly effective with the September 2018 billing:
 
First 2,000 gallons of water usage    $12.50 (minimum fee)
All water utilized over 2,000 gallons $1.56 per 1,000 gallons per month
 
First two thousand (2,000) gallons for minimum charge of twelve dollars fifty
cents ($12.50) will increase two percent (2%) of established rate for each
fiscal year following. The two percent (2%) increase will start with the
September water billing and subsequent fiscal years thereafter. (Ord. 446, 8-
13-2018)
   D.   Subscription To All Services Available: Anyone utilizing any water,
sewer or sanitation services must subscribe to all services available to them.
(Ord. 407, 4-9-2012)
17-207: WATER DEPARTMENT:
The Water Department shall be under the exclusive control of the Board of
Trustees of the Town. The Board shall have the authority and duty to prescribe
all necessary rules and regulations for the water service conduct and
operation. The Board of Trustees shall have the duty and authority to provide
all necessary employees for the proper maintenance and operation of the water
system. (1985 Code; amended 1991)
17-208: DEPOSITS PRIOR TO CONNECTION, RECONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Meter deposits shall be required prior to connection of water. After
the establishment of service to any metering point, a fee shall be charged and
collected for the reconnection and reestablishment of such water services. The
schedule and amount of all meter deposits and reconnect fees shall be
established by the Town Board of Trustees in amounts sufficient to fulfill the
purposes for which they are established. The schedule of such fees shall be
open to public inspection during regular business hours of the Town.
   B.   Meter deposits made by water users for water shall be held by the Town
as security for the payment of water service charges and any other fees
lawfully charged by the Town in connection with its furnishing water service to
the party making deposit. In the event of nonpayment of any charges, the Water
Clerk may pay such charges from the meter deposit. (1985 Code; amended 1991)
17-209: UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS:
It is unlawful for any water user to turn on any meter or make reconnection
with any water service which has been turned off or discontinued by reason of
the failure to pay a delinquent water account as provided herein. (1985 Code)
17-210: TOWN NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR MAINTENANCE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The town acting through its agents, officers, and employees, is not permitted
to enter on private property and make repairs to plumbing systems. The town's
responsibility ends at the meter connection or property line. All repairs
beyond this point are the sole responsibility of the property owner. (1985
Code)
17-211: PROPERTY OWNERS OR WATER USERS TO MAINTAIN PLUMBING SYSTEM IN
RESPONSIBLE STATE OF REPAIR:
Property owners or water users have a duty and responsibility to maintain
plumbing system in a reasonable state of repair so as to not waste the public
water supply. The board of trustees or their duly authorized representative
shall have the right of entry, at reasonable hours, to inspect individual
systems to ensure that waste is not occurring. (1985 Code)
17-212: WATER SHORTAGES, DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the mayor is hereby authorized to restrict or prohibit
the use of water from the town's water system.
   B.   An emergency exists whenever the mayor reasonably determines that the
town's water system is unable or will within sixty (60) days become unable to
supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof, including
adequate fire protection. (1985 Code)
17-213: RESTRICTION ON WATER USE IN EMERGENCY:
   A.   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists the mayor shall
issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with particularity
an order restricting use of water from the town system. The order may:
      1.   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
      2.   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety. The order
may be revised from time to time as the mayor deems necessary.
   B.   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for thirty (30) days or until such time as the
mayor shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has ended,
whichever is shorter, unless the board by resolution approved by a majority of
all of its members votes to terminate the emergency and proclamation upon a
different date. (1985 Code)
17-214: PROCLAMATION AND NOTICE OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   The proclamation required by the preceding section shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the town or, if there is no such
newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within twenty four (24)
hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy of the
proclamation in ten (10) prominent places in the town. The emergency shall be
in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with this
section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   B.   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in subsection
A of this section is used, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance
with subsection A of this section within twenty four (24) hours of the first
notice. (1985 Code)
17-215: GRIEVANCES WITH WATER RESTRICTIONS:
Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the mayor shall have the
right to present the matter to the next regular or special meeting of the town
board of trustees or to any emergency session called to discuss the water
emergency. The board of trustees may exempt such aggrieved person, wholly or in
part, from compliance with the proclamation order upon a showing that
compliance creates an immediate threat to the person's health or safety. The
ruling of the board of trustees by a majority vote of all its members shall be
final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of the proclamation. Until
and unless the action of the mayor is modified or revoked by action of the
board of trustees all water users shall be bound by the proclamation. (1985
Code)
17-216: PENALTIES:
Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or permits others
under his supervision, custody or control to violate any term of a duly
published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any violation of the
provisions of the mayor's proclamation or action of the board or this chapter
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (1985 Code)
17-217: WATER WELLS:
   A.   Construction Of Individual Water Wells Prohibited: Due to regulations
imposed by the department of environmental quality of the federal government
and in order to protect the source of revenue of the town to ensure the payment
of indebtedness of the town to the Oklahoma water resources board for past
indebtedness for the construction of new sewer lagoons and also for the
anticipated and impending indebtedness of the town to improve and make adequate
the water system and any future indebtedness the town may be required to make
in order to be able to furnish services by the town to the citizens and
inhabitants thereof, it is hereby declared to be illegal and anyone in
violation hereof, subject to exceptions hereinafter noted, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this section is punishable
by a fine as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   No person shall drill or enlarge any water well, or subsequently use
the water from such well, except upon:
         a.   Application for a permit for such activity or usage from the
Shattuck municipal authority,
         b.   Payment of a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) permit fee, and
         c.   Compliance with this code and the rules and regulations of the
Oklahoma department of health, the department of environmental quality and the
Oklahoma water resources board.
      2.   Water from such wells shall be used only for domestic purposes on
the premises where the well is located, and there shall be no interconnection
of any kind between such well and the water supply of the town. Any nondomestic
usage existing before November 8, 2010, may be continued to the same extent and
for the same purposes, but such uses shall not be extended or increased.
      3.   Except as otherwise provided, no person shall drill, deepen, or
otherwise complete any privately owned well into the Ogalla Aquifer formation,
the water from such formation being part of the town water supply.
      4.   Persons excepted from the provisions of subsection C3 of this
section are:
         a.   Domestic users residing in areas not serviced by the town water
supply, and
         b.   Those commercial or industrial users specifically granted
permissions by the town council.
      5.   All wells drilled, deepened, or completed to the Ogalla Aquifer
sandstone formation, and the operating of such wells are subject to the
inspection and regulation of the town so as to prevent pollution and/or damage
to those water producing sands.
      6.   The town council may issue cease and desist orders to all users of
water from the Ogalla Aquifer sandstone formation during any period of drought,
low water supply or at those times the town deems necessary to safeguard the
welfare of it citizens.
      7.   Should the town subsequently furnish water service to users of
private water wells drawing water from the Ogalla Aquifer formation, those
persons owning such wells shall immediately plug and abandon those wells. (Ord.
393, 11-8-2010)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM AND USE
SECTION:
17-301: Declaration Of Public Utility
17-302: Definitions
17-303: Sanitary Sewer Rates
17-304: Disposition Of Funds
17-305: Sewer Taps
17-306: Permit For Discharge Of Liquid Waste
17-301: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY:
The sanitary sewer system of the Town is hereby declared to be a public
utility, and a proper source of revenue for the upkeep and maintenance of the
system. (Ord. 249, 12-10-1984)
17-302: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, "sewage" means all matter and material placed
in the sanitary system of the Town. (1985 Code)
17-303: SANITARY SEWER RATES:
   A.   Sewer Service Charge Established: There is hereby established a sewer
service charge to be paid by each consumer of water, from the water system of
the Town of Shattuck, Oklahoma, connected to the sanitary sewer system of said
Town, based on the actual gallons of water metered to each customer. (Ord. 425,
2-9-2015)
   B.   Rates:
      1.   Established rates: (Ord. 447, 8-13-2018)
 
Residential consumers:                   
 First 3,000 gallons of water usage    $11.50 (minimum fee)
  All water utilized over 3,000 gallons $1.56 per 1,000 gallons of water
 per month                             utilized over first 3,000 gallons per
                                        month
Commercial consumers:                    
 First 3,000 gallons of water usage    $11.50 (minimum fee)
  All water utilized over 3,000 gallons $1.56 per 1,000 gallons of water
 per month                             utilized over first 3,000 gallons per
                                        month
 
(Ord. 452, 11-13-2018)
Said water meter gallons will be averaged during the months of December,
January and February to set sewer charge until next averaging period.
First three thousand (3,000) gallons for minimum charge of eleven dollars fifty
cents ($11.50) will increase two percent (2%) of established rate for each
fiscal year following. The two percent (2%) increase will start with the
September 2018 water billing and subsequent fiscal years thereafter.
      2.   The sanitary sewer rate for those customers receiving services from
the Town of Shattuck, Oklahoma for services rendered outside of the corporate
limits of the Town as such limits, shall be the same as within the corporate
limits.
   C.   Customers Not Using Town Water: With respect to those customers which
are connected to the sanitary sewer system of the Town of Shattuck, Oklahoma,
but which are not customers of Town water, a flat monthly fee of eleven dollars
fifty cents ($11.50) shall be charged. A two percent (2%) increase for
established rate each fiscal year following will start with the September 2018
billing and subsequent fiscal years thereafter.
   D.   Subscription To All Services Available: Anyone utilizing any water,
sewer or sanitation services must subscribe to all services available to them.
(Ord. 447, 8-13-2018)
17-304: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
The funds derived from such fees shall be deposited in the General Revenue Fund
of the Town to be used for maintenance and extension of the system, or for such
other uses as the Town Board may deem fit. (1985 Code)
17-305: SEWER TAPS:
   A.   Sewer Tap Permit: It is hereby provided that before any person, firm or
corporation may make a tap into the Shattuck sanitary sewer system they shall
first make application with the town clerk and obtain a permit for permission
to do so. Said application shall specify the location of the proposed sewer
tap. The making of such sewer tap shall be under the supervision of a qualified
employee of the town of Shattuck as shall be designated by the town council.
The designated town employee shall certify his or her approval of the job on
the permit before the job may be covered. The permit shall be issued in
triplicate with one copy remaining in the office of the clerk. The other two
(2) copies shall be certified by the town employee with one copy being retained
by the applicant for its permanent files and one copy being returned to the
town for its permanent file.
   B.   Sewer Tap Fee: A fee as set by the town board shall be levied upon and
paid by applicant before the permit is issued. When the copy of the permit
which has been duly certified by the town employee, who shall also designate
the time required to perform such services, has been returned to the town
clerk, and the minimum fee is insufficient to cover the expense of said
employee's time, an additional fee shall be assessed, which shall be of an
amount sufficient to reimburse the town for time of the employee based upon his
or her current wages.
   C.   Penalty: Every person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) and costs. (Ord. 345, 7-12-2004)
17-306: PERMIT FOR DISCHARGE OF LIQUID WASTE:
   A.   Permit Required: Before any person, firm or corporation desiring to
discharge liquid waste into the sanitary sewer system of the town of Shattuck,
who is engaged commercially in the business of collecting liquid waste, they
must first obtain a permit from the town clerk before the discharge thereof.
Those persons who live in a residence or conduct a business within or adjacent
to the town of Shattuck and who are legally attached to the sanitary sewer
system by means of a sewer system from their premises to the town's sewer
system and who pay to the town for sewer service as a part of their utility
bill, are exempted from the provisions of this section. (Ord. 349, 1-13-2005)
   B.   Sewer Fee: Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity who is
engaged commercially in the business of collecting liquid waste and who desires
to discharge any such waste into Shattuck sanitary sewer system shall pay to
the town clerk a fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) per load which should not
exceed five hundred (500) gallons and an additional fee of thirty dollars
($30.00) for each additional five hundred (500) gallons or portion thereof.
   C.   Loss Of Privilege For Failure To Pay: Failure to pay the fee prescribed
in subsection B of this section or failure to comply with subsection E of this
section shall cause the loss of privilege of dumping into the Shattuck sanitary
sewer system from that time forward until all amounts due with penalty as
hereinafter provided and interest in the amount of ten percent (10%) per annum
have been fully paid. (Ord. 386, 11-9-2009)
   D.   Dumping Site: The location for dumping liquid waste into the Shattuck
sanitary sewer system is hereby designated as the manhole located upon the
access road along the south side of the railroad right of way which is an
extension of Grand Boulevard westward from Main Street and specifically located
at 300 West Grand and 100 South Hickory. Said site shall be locked at all times
and a record of use shall be kept at the town hall; users shall notify the town
clerk, town administrator or other town employee of their intended use and
shall be accompanied to the dumpsite with a town employee who shall be
responsible for unlocking the dumpsite and locking it back after discharge of
waste by the user. (Ord. 349, 1-13-2005)
   E.   Penalty And Restitution: Any person, firm, corporation or other legal
entity who violates any of the provisions of this section by failure to pay the
permit fee when due, or deposits waste into the sanitary sewer system after
failure to pay the permit fee or who in any manner tampers with the sanitary
sewer system, shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00)
with costs. It is further provided that each day of such violation shall be a
separate offense.
Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity who discharge matter into
the sanitary sewer system that causes damages to the system shall be
responsible and make restitution to the town of Shattuck for all such damages
and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 386, 11-9-2009)
CHAPTER 4
REFUSE COLLECTION
SECTION:
17-401: Definitions
17-402: Garbage And Trash Disposal
17-403: Garbage And Trash To Be Placed In Dumpster
17-404: Garbage, Rubbish And Trash To Be Collected
17-405: No Garbage Or Trash To Be Burned
17-406: Garbage, Rubbish And Trash Service Charges
17-407: Trash Bin Dumpsters; License, Deposits
17-408: Penalty
17-401: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
GARBAGE: Includes kitchen and table refuse, and every accumulation of animal
and vegetable matter which attends the preparation of, decay of, dealing in, or
storage of meats, fruits, vegetables and other provisions for human
subsistence.
RESIDENT: Any housing unit occupied by a single family and in the case of
multiple units, each unit as a separate entity, except for motels and rooming
houses.
TRASH AND RUBBISH: Includes paper, rags, containers of paper, wood or tin, tin
cans, yard and house sweepings, and all other household wastes except tree
trimmings, building and manufacturing waste, sewage, "garbage" as herein
defined, rocks, bricks, and mortar. (1985 Code)
17-402: GARBAGE AND TRASH DISPOSAL:
Every person, firm, or corporation using or occupying any building, house, or
structure within the Town shall be required to collect and dispose of all
garbage or trash as provided in this chapter. It is unlawful for any such
person, firm, or corporation to collect or dispose of garbage or trash in any
manner except as provided herein. (1985 Code)
17-403: GARBAGE AND TRASH TO BE PLACED IN DUMPSTER:
   A.   The Town shall place a dumpster within one-half (1/2) Town block of any
building, house, or structure within the Town and all garbage shall be placed
in the dumpster. Before placing garbage in the can, all liquid portion of the
garbage shall be drained into the sanitary sewer. The lids are to be kept
closed so flies and other insects and animals may not have access to the
contents therein.
   B.   Dumpsters containing other than "garbage", rubbish, or trash as defined
herein will not be emptied until such prohibited materials have been removed.
(1985 Code)
17-404: GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND TRASH TO BE COLLECTED:
All garbage, rubbish, and trash in the Town shall be collected by employees of
the Town. It is unlawful for any other person to molest or interfere with the
contents of dumpsters. Collections shall be made at regular intervals. (Ord.
250, 12-10-1984)
17-405: NO GARBAGE OR TRASH TO BE BURNED:
It is unlawful for any person or persons to burn garbage, rubbish, or trash
within the incorporated limits of the Town. (Ord. 250, 12-10-1984)
17-406: GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND TRASH SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   That there is hereby established a Garbage, Rubbish and Trash service
charge to be paid by each resident or place of business of the Town of
Shattuck, Oklahoma, as follows:
   B.   Fees: The following fees shall be charges for the provision of
dumpsters and/or trash receptacle and the collection and disposal of Garbage,
Rubbish and Trash as follows:
 
Residential:             $17.00 base monthly fee per dumpster. Which shall be
                         dumped once each week.
Out of Town Residential: $18.00 base monthly fee per dumpster. Which shall be
                         dumped once each week.
Commercial:              $23.00 base fee per month per dumpster times number of
                         times dumped each week.
Out of Town Commercial:  $24.00 base fee per month per dumpster times number of
                         times dumped each week.
Country Residential:     $12.00 per month to haul garbage, rubbish and trash
                         inside city limits to be dumped.
Country Commercial:      $13.00 per month to haul garbage, rubbish and trash
                         inside city limits to be dumped.
Temporary Dumpster:      $27.00 per dumpster for each required dumping which is
                         not on the regularly scheduled date for dumping.
 
   C.   Anyone utilizing any water, sewer or sanitation services must subscribe
to all services available to them. (Ord. 403, 1-10-2012; amd. Ord. 448, 8-13-
2018; Ord. 464, 3-8-2021)
17-407: TRASH BIN DUMPSTERS; LICENSE, DEPOSITS:
   A.   License Required: Any and all persons, firms, corporations or limited
liability companies that shall deposit trash and/or refuse in the trash bin
dumpsters owned and maintained by the Town of Shattuck shall previously thereto
have obtained a license from the Town of Shattuck in one of the two (2) manners
hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Procedure: A license to deposit trash and/or refuse in the trash bin
dumpsters shall be obtained in one of the following manners:
      1.   Regular License: A regular license is obtained by subscribing to and
paying for utility service, which includes trash removal, from the Town of
Shattuck.
      2.   Special License: A special license may be obtained by one who does
not pay for utility service including trash removal by first making application
for a special license and paying an annual fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00)
or such other amount as may be hereinafter determined by the Board of Trustees
by resolution to be a proper amount.
   C.   Prohibited Deposits Or Refuse: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, corporation or limited liability company to deposit any trash and/or
refuse in the trash bin dumpsters of the Town of Shattuck without having first
obtained a license to do so in one of the manners set forth above; and in no
event shall any of the following articles of trash and/or refuse, grass
clippings, metal, lumber, tree branches, furniture, appliances, tires, and any
other item not listed herein that notice is given by posting on the dumpster,
be deposited in such dumpster; and each and every act in violation hereof shall
be considered a separate offense punishable by fine and costs as prescribed in
section
17-408 of this chapter. (Ord. 335, 1-22-2001)
17-408: PENALTY:
Any person who violates provisions of this chapter, either by commission or
omission, shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction, shall be punished
as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (1985 Code; amd. Ord. 335, 1-22-2001)
CHAPTER 5
GREASE TRAPS AND GREASE INTERCEPTORS
SECTION:
17-501: Scope And Purpose
17-502: Definitions
17-503: Food Service Establishment Permit Requirement
17-504: Wastewater Discharge Limitations
17-505: Grease Interceptor Requirements
17-506: Grease Trap Requirements
17-507: Penalty
17-501: SCOPE AND PURPOSE:
To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer blockage and obstructions from
contributions and accumulation of fats, oils and greases into the sanitary
sewer system from industrial or commercial establishments, particularly food
preparation and serving facilities. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2010)
17-502: DEFINITIONS:
FATS, OILS AND GREASES: Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant resources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in the United States code of federal regulations 40 CFR 136, as may
be amended from time to time. All are sometimes referred to herein as grease or
greases.
FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS: Those establishments primarily engaged in
activities of preparing, serving or otherwise making available for consumption
by the public such as restaurant, commercial kitchen, caterer, hotel, school,
hospital, prison, correction facility, and care institution. These
establishments use one or more of the following preparation activities: cooking
by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing, rotisserie
cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting, or
poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and any
other food preparation activity that produces a hot, nondrinkable food product
in or on a receptacle that requires washing.
GREASE INTERCEPTOR: A structure or device designed for the purpose of removing
and preventing fats, oils and grease from entering the sanitary sewer
collection system. These devices are often belowground units in outside areas
and are built as two (2) or three (3) chamber baffled tanks.
GREASE TRAP: A device for separating and retaining waterborne grease and grease
complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the sanitary
sewer collection and treatment system. Such traps are typically compact under
the sink units that are near food preparation areas.
MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY: The design features of a grease interceptor and its
ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
USER: Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits of
the town of Shattuck, who contributes, causes or permits the contribution or
discharge of wastewater into sewers within the town's boundaries, including
persons who contribute such wastewater from mobile sources, such as those who
discharge hauled wastewater. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2010)
17-503: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
All permitted food service establishments discharging wastewater to the town of
Shattuck sanitary sewer collection system are subject to the following
requirements:
   A.   Grease Interceptor Requirements: All permitted food service
establishments are required to install, operate and maintain an approved type
and adequately sized grease interceptor necessary to maintain compliance with
the objectives of this chapter. All grease interceptors must meet the
requirements of the town of Shattuck plumbing code. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2010)
   B.   Implementation: All new food service establishment facilities are
subject to grease interceptor requirements. All such facilities must obtain
prior approval from the public works director/town engineer for grease
interceptor sizing prior to submitting plans for a land use permit. All grease
interceptors shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Existing facilities with planned modification in plumbing
improvements, with a land use permit evaluation of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) or more will be required to include plans to comply with the
grease interceptor requirements. These facilities must obtain approval from the
public works director/town engineer for grease interceptor sizing prior to
submitting plans for a land use permit. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2010; amd. Ord. 400, 12-
15-2011)
All existing food service establishments, determined by the town board, to have
a reasonable potential to adversely impact the town's sewer system will be
notified of their obligation to install a grease interceptor within the
specified period set forth in the notification letter.
   C.   Variance From Grease Interceptor Requirements: Grease interceptors
required under this chapter shall be installed unless the town board authorizes
the installation of an indoor grease trap or other alternative pretreatment
technology and determines that the installation of a grease interceptor would
not be feasible. The food service establishment bears the burden of
demonstrating that the installation of a grease interceptor is not feasible.
The town board may authorize the installation of an indoor grease trap where
the installation of a grease interceptor is not feasible due to space
constraints or other considerations. If an establishment believes the
installation of a grease interceptor is infeasible, because of documented space
constraints, the request for an alternate grease removal device shall contain
the following information:
      1.   Location of sewer main and easement in relation to available
exterior space outside building.
      2.   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing for all
services at that site.
Alternative pretreatment technology includes, but is not limited to, devices
that are used to trap, separate and hold grease from wastewater and prevent it
from being discharged into the sanitary sewer collection system. All
alternative pretreatment technology must be appropriately sized and approved by
the town board. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2010)
17-504: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS:
No user shall allow wastewater discharge concentration from subject grease
interceptor, grease trap or alternative pretreatment technology to exceed six
hundred milligrams per liter (600 mg/l), as defined by EPA test method 1664 or
six hundred milligrams per liter (600 mg/l), as identified by EPA test method
413. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2010)
17-505: GREASE INTERCEPTOR REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Grease interceptor sizing and installation shall conform to the
plumbing code.
   B.   Grease interceptors shall be constructed in accordance with design
approved by the town board and shall have minimum of two (2) compartments with
fittings designed for grease retention.
   C.   Grease interceptors shall be installed at a location where it shall be
easily accessible for inspection, cleaning, and removal of intercepted grease.
The grease interceptor may not be installed and any part of the building where
food is handled. Location of the grease interceptor must meet the approval of
the town board.
   D.   All such grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of
accumulated waste content as required in order to maintain minimum design
capability or effective volume. These devices should be inspected at least
monthly. Users who are required to maintain a grease interceptor shall:
      1.   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time in accordance with
the plumbing code.
      2.   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required.
Grease interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials such as
grit, rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags,
etc., which could settle into this pocket and thereby reduce the effective
volume of the device.
   E.   The user shall maintain a written record of inspection and maintenance
for ten (10) years. All such records will be made available for on site
inspection by representative of the town of Shattuck during all operating
hours.
   F.   Sanitary wastes are not allowed to be connected to sewer lines intended
for grease interceptor service.
   G.   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following adoption
of this chapter, with such additional extensions of one year as the board may
deem to be reasonable, although installation of grease interceptors will be
required to be installed, no enforcement actions will be taken under this
chapter for failure to achieve limits on grease discharges from grease
interceptors, if, during this one year period an obstruction of a sewer main
occurs that causes a sewer overflow to the extent that an impact on the
environment is realized and that said overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer
collection system to convey sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an
accumulation of grease in the sewer mains the town of Shattuck will take
appropriate enforcement actions against the generator or contributor of such
grease.
   H.   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of twenty four inches (24"),
shall be provided over each grease interceptor chamber and sanitary tee. The
access manholes shall extend at least to finished grade and be designed and
maintained to prevent water inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also
have readily removable covers to facilitate inspection, grease removal, and
wastewater sampling activities. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2010)
17-506: GREASE TRAP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Upon approval by the town board, a grease trap complying with the
provisions of this section must be installed in the waste line leading from
sinks, drains, and other fixtures or equipment in food service establishments
where grease may be introduced into the drainage or sewage system in quantities
that can effect line stoppage or hinder sewage treatment or private sewage
disposal.
   B.   Grease traps sizing and installation shall conform to the plumbing
code.
   C.   No grease trap shall be installed which has a stated rate flow of more
than fifty five (55) gallons per minute, nor less than twenty (20) gallons per
minute, except when specially approved by the town board.
   D.   Grease traps shall be maintained in efficient operating conditions by
periodic removal of the accumulated grease. No such collected grease shall be
introduced into any drainage piping, or public or private sewer.
   E.   No food waste disposal unit or dishwasher shall be connected to or
discharge into any grease trap.
   F.   Wastewater in excess of one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F)
(60°C) shall not be discharged into a grease trap.
   G.   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following adoption
of this chapter, with such additional extensions of one year as the board may
deem to be reasonable, although installation of grease traps will be required
to be installed, no enforcement will be taken under this chapter for failure to
achieve limits on grease discharged from the facility. If, during this one year
period an obstruction of a sewer main occurs that causes a sewer overflow to
the extent that an impact on the environment is realized and that said overflow
failure of the sanitary sewer collection system to convey sewage can be
attributed in part or in whole to an accumulation of grease in the sewer mains,
the town of Shattuck will take appropriate enforcement actions against the
generator or contributor of such grease. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2010)
17-507: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply with any
ordinance provision of this chapter or any legal order or regulation made
pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (Ord. 390, 3-8-2010)
APPENDIX 1
MAP OF THE TOWN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f11b4fde1aa2b0b75bebcdce52d0495962cf0212/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1117.png]
 
APPENDIX 2
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
Ord. No., Date   Description
                 Grants to the Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company, a 25-year
223, 5-5-1975   franchise for electric services in the town. The franchise fee
                 is three percent (3%).
                 An ordinance amending ordinance 223 which granted to the
                 Oklahoma Gas and Electric Corporation, its successors and
                 assigns, the right to produce, transmit and distribute
306, 2-10-1997  electricity within the town limits and to sell electricity
                 therein for all purposes for which it may be used, to the town
                 of Shattuck, and residents thereof; said ordinance shall be
                 amended to provide for the payment of the franchise fee in two
                 (2) equal biannual payments; and declaring an emergency.
                 An ordinance granting to the Oklahoma Gas and Electric
                 Company, an Oklahoma corporation, its successors and assigns,
                 the right to produce, transmit and distribute electricity
                 within the town limits and to sell electricity therein for all
                 purposes for which it may be used, to the town of Shattuck,
                 Ellis County, Oklahoma, its inhabitants and the public
329, 2-14-2000  generally, and the right to construct, maintain and operate a
                 system of poles, wires, conduits and other facilities and
                 equipment in, upon, across, under and over the streets,
                 alleys, public grounds and other places in the town for such
                 purposes for a period of twenty five (25) years from the
                 approval and acceptance of this ordinance; providing
                 compensation to the town; ordering an election; and declaring
                 an emergency.
 
APPENDIX 3
RESERVED
APPENDIX 4
CABLE TELEVISION/VIDEO SYSTEM FRANCHISE
 
Ord. No., Date   Description
218, 12-2-1974   Grants to Kyle Moore, DBA Television Cable, a 15 year cable
                 permit.
281              Grants the change from R.H. Tyler, DBA Cable Media Systems to
                 Mission Cable.
282, 10-31-1988  Amends the assignment provisions of ordinance 218.
348, 11-8-2004   Grants to Pioneer Long Distance, Inc., a 10 year video system
                 franchise for a 3 percent fee.
 
ORDINANCE DISPOSITION TABLE
Ord. No. Date Subject Disposition
Ord. No. Date        Subject                      Disposition
                     Annual occupation tax in the
161      --          manufacture, sale or          
                     distribution of alcoholic
                     beverages.
                     Prohibiting the harboring,
                     keeping, maintenance or
217      11-4-1974   possession of domestic        
                     animals within the corporate
                     limits of the town.
219      2-3-1975    Amending sales tax ordinance  
                     from 1% to 2%.
                     Granting to the Oklahoma Gas
                     and Electric Co., the right
223      5-5-1975    to produce, transmit and      
                     distribute electricity
                     within town limits.
                     Vacating alleyway on, over
226      8-18-1975   and through block 12,         
                     Highland Park addition.
                     Vacating south 20 feet of
                     Fourth Street from the east
227      9-15-1975   line of Sylvania Street to    
                     the west line of Jenkins
                     Street, all in Highland Park
                     addition.
                     Levying 2% tax upon gross
229      4-19-1976   receipts of sales of gas in   
                     lieu of other taxes.
230      3-15-1976   Providing for library         
                     service to the town.
                     Vacating a portion of Edmond
231      9-20-1976   Street, in Highland Park      
                     addition.
232      1-17-1977   Providing library service to  
                     the town.
                     Vacating a portion of Sixth
233      3-21-1977   Street, in Ewing Heights      
                     addition.
234      4-18-1977   Vacating a portion of 12th    
                     Street, Highview addition.
                     Vacating all that portion of
235      5-2-1977    3rd Street lying between      
                     blocks 3 and 10, Highland
                     Park addition.
                     Establishing regulations
236      6-5-1978    governing plain management;   
                     establishing floodplain
                     management.
                     Specifying amount and
237      7-17-1978   conditions of bail for        
                     violation of municipal
                     ordinance.
                     Creating office of town
238      2-5-1981    clerk-treasurer and           
                     prescribing duties thereof.
                     Providing for a city
240      9-7-1982    electrical inspector and      
                     electrical codes.
241      9-9-1981    Master plan-zoning            
                     ordinance.
                     Note stating it was not
242      --          written by an attorney and    
                     attorney declared it
                     illegal.
                     Vacation of a portion of
243      6-21-1982   11th Street, west boundary    
                     line of Smith addition.
244      8-1-1983    Regulating trash and weeds.   
                     Providing for requirement
                     that all operators of motor
245      8-1-1983    vehicles carry at all times   
                     while operating a motor
                     vehicle a security
                     verification form.
246      9-19-1983   Regulating fines and costs;   
                     increasing fines and costs.
                     Changing times for regular
247      11-7-1983   meeting of the board of       
                     trustees.
                     Repealing all ordinances
248      1-28-1985   regarding water department;   
                     levying charges for use of
                     water.
                     Repealing all ordinances
                     regarding sewer system;
249      12-10-1984  declaring the sanitary sewer  
                     system of the town to be a
                     public utility.
                     Setting forth authority of
                     the town for collection and
250      12-10-1984  disposal of garbage,          
                     rubbish, trash, levying
                     charges.
                     Regulating activities of
251      2-11-1985   peddlers, solicitors,         
                     salespersons; requiring
                     permits.
                     Establishing salaries for
252      1-14-1985   elected officials of the      
                     town.
                     Relating to the definitions,
                     offenses, vaccinations,
                     registrations, records,
253      --          fees, tags and procedures     
                     for keeping dogs within the
                     incorporated limits of the
                     town.
                     Amending ordinance 241,
                     requiring curbs and gutters
                     on new construction,
254      12-10-1984  redefining commercial         
                     districts, appointing
                     members to board of
                     adjustment.
255      3-27-1985   Amending ordinance 248,       
                     regulating water department.
256      3-27-1985   Amending ordinance 249,       
                     regulating sewer system.
                     Amending ordinance 250,
257      3-27-1985   regulating collection and     
                     disposal of garbage.
                     Providing for the closing
258      4-8-1985    and vacating of a portion of  
                     a street within the town.
263      8-26-1985   At large elections of         
                     trustees, no wards.
264      --          Truck routes, restrictions.   
265      1-27-1986   Water user rates.             
266      3-10-1986   Adopting code of ordinances.  
267      4-14-1986   Cemetery board powers and     
                     duties.
268      4-28-1986   Authority to answer fire      
                     calls outside of town.
                     Amending section 4-105
269      5-12-1986   regarding animals running at  
                     large.
                     Requirements for licensing
270      5-12-1986   of electrical contractor or   
                     journeyman.
271      --          Not used.                     
272      --          Salaries for board of         
                     trustees.
273      1-12-1987   Salary for clerk-treasurer.   
274      2-9-1987    Preservation and disposal of  
                     documents.
275      5-26-1987   Flood damage prevention.      
276      8-10-1987   Rezoning.                     
277      9-28-1987   Rezoning.                     
278      3-14-1988   Rezoning.                     
279      4-11-1988   Regulating keeping animals    
                     in town.
                     Amending section 3 of
280      7-11-1988   ordinance 279 (permits        
                     required).
                     Amending appendix 4 Cable TV
281      10-24-1988  changed to Mission Cable,     
                     L.P.
                     Amending section 3 of
282      10-31-1988  ordinance 281 (cable TV;      
                     assignment of easement).
283      1-9-1989    Mandatory use of seat belts.  
284      7-10-1989   Fair housing policy.          
285      7-10-1989   2% excise tax.                
286      8-28-1989   Increasing excise tax to 3%.  
                     Amending section 1 of
287      10-23-1989  ordinance 285 (excise tax to  
                     3%).
288      12-11-1989  Granting cable TV permit to   
                     Mission Cable, L.P.
289      --          Not passed.                   
290      3-12-1990   Utility regulations.          
291      3-12-1990   Nonintoxicating beverage      
                     regulations.
                     Removing meter deposit and
292      1-28-1991   reconnect fees from code;     
                     town board to set fees.
293      12-9-1991   Adoption of BOCA mechanical   
                     code.
294      12-14-1992  Weeds and trash.             Part 8, Ch. 1
295      1-11-1993   Nonintoxicating liquor;      3-213
                     hours of sale.
296      5-10-1993   Nonintoxicating liquor;      3-213
                     hours of sale.
297      8-12-1994   Curfew for minors.           10-413
                     Clerk-treasurer; salary;
298      9-12-1994   creation of clerk executive  2-301E,F
                     position.
299      11-28-1994  Jake brakes prohibited.      15-131
300      5-8-1995    Truck parking.               15-105B5
301      3-11-1996   Railroads.                   16-103–16-1 07
302      7-22-1996   Carrying firearms            10-305
                     prohibited.
303      9-9-1996    Peddlers and solicitors.     Part 9, Ch. 2
                     Possession of weapons on
304      9-23-1996   certain posted public        10-305
                     property; exception.
305      --          Not approved.                 
306      2-10-1997   Granting of electric         App. 2
                     franchise.
307–31 --          Not issued.                   
317      5-27-1997   Sanitary sewer rates.        17-303
318      7-14-1997   Vacation of alley.           Special
319      8-11-1997   Truck parking.               15-105B5
320      8-25-1997   Vacation of alley.           Special
321      11-10-1997  Rezone.                      Special
322      2-9-1998    General penalty amendment    1-108A, 8-113, 15-131, 16-107
                     and other code penalties.
323      2-23-1998   Exemption from competitive   7-106A1
                     bidding procedures.
                     Depositing of tree limbs,
324      5-11-1998   large items into trash       17-407
                     receptacles.
                     Clerk-treasurer; salary;
325      7-27-1998   creation of clerk executive  2-301E,F
                     position.
326      9-14-1998   Creation of park and         11-101
                     recreation board.
327      12-14-1998  Annexation.                  Special
328      4-12-1999   Keeping of animals in        4-102D–H
                     general.
329      2-14-2000   Granting of electric         App. 2
                     franchise.
330      1-24-2000   Clerk-treasurer; salary;     2-301E,F
                     executive clerk position.
331      3-13-2000   Utility service required.    17-101
332      4-10-2000   Fair housing.                Part 5, Ch. 9
333      12-11-2000  Property maintenance code    Part 5, Ch. 10
                     adopted.
334      10-23-2000  Clerk-treasurer; salary;     2-301E,F
                     executive clerk position.
                     Trash bin dumpsters;
335      1-22-2001   license, deposits;           17-407, 17-408
                     renumbered section 17-407.
336      1-28-2002   Amending day of board        2-103A,B
                     meetings.
337      2-11-2002   Public sale of property.     Special
338      6-10-2002   Extending the town corporate Special
                     limits.
339      6-10-2002   Clerk-treasurer; salary;     2-301E,F
                     executive clerk position.
340      6-10-2002   Sanitary sewer rates.        17-303
341      6-10-2002   Water service rates.         17-206
342      12-8-2002   Clerk-treasurer; salary;     2-301E,F
                     executive clerk position.
343      3-10-2003   Administrative fine for      4-102G
                     keeping animals.
344      3-10-2003   General penalty for animal   4-119
                     control.
345      7-12-2004   Sanitary sewer system tap    17-305
                     permit and fee.
                     Petition required for permit
346      5-10-2004   to construct an animal       4-104B,D
                     enclosure.
348      11-8-2004   Cable television/video       App. 4
                     system franchise.
                     Permit for discharge of
349      1-13-2005   liquid waste into sanitary   17-306
                     sewer system.
350      8-8-2005    Clerk-treasurer; salary;     2-301E,F
                     executive clerk position.
351      12-12-2005  Vacation of street.          Special
352      1-9-2006    Vacation of street.          Special
353      2-12-2006   Vacation of alley.           Special
354      1-9-2006    Clerk-treasurer; salary;     2-301E,F
                     executive clerk position.
355      4-10-2006   Ballot question posed to     Special
                     voters.
356      4-10-2006   Rezone.                      Special
357      7-14-2006   Vacation of street.          Special
358      9-14-2006   Orion Ethanol joint economic Special
                     development project plan.
359      9-14-2006   Water and sewer rates.       17-206, 17-303
360      11-13-2006  Default fee for water and    17-206C, 17-303D
                     sewer rates.
                                                  Special3621- 10-2007Decl
361      12-18-2006  Zoning amendment.            aration of judge to carry out
                                                  specified duties.Specia l
                     Park regulations; repealed
363      5-14-2007   sections 11-108 through 11-  11-103–11-1 07
                     113.
                     Parking on municipal
364      7-9-2007    streets, rights of way and   15-242
                     alleys.
365      8-13-2007   Golf carts and utility       15-216
                     vehicles.
366      8-13-2007   Vacation of street.          Special
367      8-13-2007   Zoning amendment.            Special
368      9-10-2007   Sanitary sewer rates.        17-303
369      9-10-2007   Water service rates.         17-206
370      9-10-2007   Garbage, rubbish and trash   17-406
                     service charges.
371      10-9-2007   Minors consuming alcoholic   Part 3, Ch. 3
                     beverages.
372      10-9-2007   Garbage, rubbish and trash   17-406
                     service charges.
                     Clerk-treasurer salary;
373      10-22-2007  creation of clerk executive  2-301E,F
                     position.
374      10-22-2007  Sanitary sewer rates.        17-303
375      10-22-2007  Water service rates.         17-206
376      3-10-2008   Utility service required.    17-101B,C,D
377      7-9-2008    Utility bills.               17-103A
378      8-11-2008   Curfew for children,         10-413F
                     penalty.
379      1-12-2009   Peddlers and solicitors,     9-203, 9-208
                     permit fee and penalty.
380      4-27-2009   Clerk executive position;    2-301E,F
                     clerk-treasurer salary.
381      5-11-2009   Zoning amendment.            Special
382      7-13-2009   Water, sewer, and trash      17-206B, 17-303B,
                     fees.                        17-406B
383      9-17-2009   Extending corporate limits.  Special
                     Curfew in the playground and
385      11-9-2009   picnic areas of the Shattuck 10-413G
                     town park.
                     Permit for discharge of
386      11-9-2009   liquid waste into sanitary   17-306B,C,E
                     sewer system.
387      11-9-2009   Building permit required,    5-106C
                     fee.
388      11-9-2009   Adding contractor            Part 5, Ch. 11
                     regulations.
389      11-9-2009   Vacation of alley.           Special
390      3-8-2010    Grease traps and grease      Part 17, Ch. 5
                     interceptors.
                     Utility bills, when payable, 17-103A1,A 2,A3,
391      6-16-2010   delinquency, disconnection   A5
                     of service.
                     Finance and budget
392      11-8-2010   administration; repealed     7-104, 7-105
                     sections 7-106 and 7-107.
393      11-8-2010   Adding water well            17-217
                     regulations.
                     Building code regulations;
394      1-10-2011   repealed part 5, chapter 10, 5-101, 5-102
                     property maintenance code.
396      3-14-2011   Fees for services to the     Special
                     town.
397      5-9-2011    Fees for services to the     Special
                     town.
398      9-19-2011   Fees for services to the     Special
                     town.
                     Utility bills, when payable,
399      12-15-2011  delinquency, disconnection   17-103A4,A 6
                     of service.
400      12-15-2011  Land use permits.            5-106, 5-1101, 5-1103, 17-
                                                  503B
401      1-10-2012   Water service rates.         17-206
402      1-10-2012   Sanitary sewer rates.        17-303
403      1-10-2012   Garbage, rubbish and trash   17-406
                     service charges.
404      2-13-2012   Sanitary sewer rates.        17-303
405      2-27-2012   Vacation of utilities        Special
                     easement.
406      4-9-2012    Fireworks regulated.         10-303
407      4-9-2012    Yard meter service charge.   17.206C,D
408      7-9-2012    Trimming trees and           14-101A
                     shrubbery.
409      --          Not approved.                 
410      9-10-2012   Clerk executive position;    2-301E,F
                     clerk- treasurer salary.
411      9-10-2012   Naming annexed areas.        Special
412      12-10-2012  Vacation of street.          Special
413      12-10-2012  Hotel Tax.                   Part 7, Ch. 5
414      12-10-2012  Trimming trees and           14-101A
                     shrubbery.
415      4-8-2013    Hotel Tax.                   Part 7, Ch. 5
416      3-11-2013   Water tap fee charges.       Special
417      6-10-2013   International Fireworks      13-101B
                     Display Code.
418      7-8-2013    Clerk executive position;    2-301E,F
                     Clerk- Treasurer salary.
419      8-19-2013   Rezone.                      Special
420      --          Not approved.                 
421      --          Not approved.                 
422      10-14-2014  Clerk executive position;    2-301E,F
                     Clerk- Treasurer salary.
423      --          Not approved.                 
                     Occupation Tax for services
424      1-12-2015   pertaining to alcoholic      3-102
                     beverages.
425      2-9-2015    Sanitary sewer rates.        17-303A,B1,C, D
426      7-13-2015   Updating animal regulations. 4-102G, 4-119, 4-120, 4-121
427      --          Not used.                     
428      9-14-2015   Weeds and trash.             Part 8, Ch. 1
429      9-14-2015   Court costs.                 6-131
430      10-13-2015  Reckless driving; repealed   15-210
                     section 15-205.
431      10-13-2015  Child passenger restraint    15-130
                     systems.
432      3-14-2016   Increase Excise Tax 1        7-207C, 7-208A
                     percent.
433      5-9-2016    Amend building regulations   Part 5, Ch. 1–Ch. 10
                     and codes.
434      6-13-2016   Water service rates.         17-206B,C
435      6-13-2016   Sanitary sewer rates.        17-303B2
436      8-8-2016    Town Use Tax.                7-403
437      --          Not received.                 
438      9-12-2016   Utility vehicles.            15-216A1
439      8-14-2017   Fireworks regulated.         10-303
440      --          Not received.                 
441      --          Not received.                 
442      --          Not received.                 
443      --          Not received.                 
444      8-13-2018   Expiration date of alcoholic 3-102G
                     beverage licenses.
445      --          Not received.                 
446      8-13-2018   Water service rates.         17-206B,C
447      8-13-2018   Sanitary sewer rates.        17-303B,C,D
448      8-13-2018   Garbage, rubbish and trash   17-406B,C
                     rates.
449      8-13-2018   Medical marijuana.           Part 9, Ch. 3
450      9-10-2018   Alcoholic beverage           3-101, 3-102, 3-106, 3-107,
                     regulations.                 Part 3, Ch. 2, 10-402D
451      10-9-2018   Application to connect to    17-201
                     water mains.
452      11-13-201 8 Sanitary sewer rates.        17-303B1 table
                     Alcoholic beverage
453      11-13-201 8 regulations, repealed        Part 3, Ch. 1, 3-301
                     section 3-301.
454      11-13-201 8 Amend medical marijuana      9-301C
                     location requirements.
455      5-13-2019   Medical marijuana            9-302, 9-303, 9-304
                     regulations.
457      4-13-2020   COVID Emergency.             Special
458      8-25-2020   Town Excise Tax.             7-208
459                  Not received.
460      8-10-2020   Town Library Board.          11-301 to 11-303
461      9-14-2020   Animal Permits.              4-104
                   Zoning Map.                  App. 1
462      - -         Not received.                 
463      12-14- 2020 Finance and budget           7-104
                     administration.
464      3-8-2021    Garbage, rubbish and trash.  17-406
465      9-13-2021   Salary for Clerk-Treasurer.  Special
466      3-17-2022   Sales tax.                   Special
Res. 938 3-17-2022   Sales tax proposal.          Special
Res. 939 6-28-2022   Hospital Authority Fund      Special
                     allotment.
467      2-16-2023   Annexation.                  Special
468      2-16-2023   Rezoning.                    Special
                                                
 
