SOUTH COFFEYVILLE, OKLAHOMA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS; PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS; PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions and notes
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to statutes
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   General powers, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-101 et seq.
   Town ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This code may be cited as the “South Coffeyville Town Code” or other
properly identifying description. When a change or changes have been prepared
and inserted in the code as provided herein below, the words “as amended” may
be added to the citation or title when referring to the code as amended.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and revision of codes of ordinances, see 11 O.S. §§ 14-108 and 14-
109
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS AND NOTES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   Notes indicating sources of sections, giving other information or
referring to statutes or to other parts of the code are inserted in the code,
and may be inserted in changes to the code, for the convenience of persons
using the code, and shall have no legal effect.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES or BOARD. The Board of Trustees of South Coffeyville.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act
to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day
on which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing
the time but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
      COUNTY. Nowata County, Oklahoma.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, provisions of the state constitution and
state statutes, the ordinances of the town, and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases which are not
specifically defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted
usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
      NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OTHER OFFICIALS or OFFICERS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officers, agencies, or departments by title only, such as “Clerk-Treasurer,”
“Town Clerk-Treasurer,” “Town Attorney,” “Fire Chief,” “Police Chief,” and the
like, they shall mean the officers, agencies, or departments of the town.
      PERSON. Includes natural persons, corporations (private and public),
partnerships, and all other unincorporated organizations, trusts, estates, and
government agencies, except when a contrary intention plainly appears.
      PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Oklahoma.
      STATUTORY REFERENCES. References to the statutes of the state as they now
are or as they may be amended.
      STREET. Street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, highway,
court, place, square, curb, or any other public way in the town which is
dedicated and open to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN, THIS TOWN, or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of South Coffeyville,
Oklahoma.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   “And” or “or”. Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender. Words used in the masculine gender in this code or in other
ordinances of the town include the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular number in this code or
in other ordinances of the town include the plural, and the plural the
singular.
   (E)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (F)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If a part of this code or of any ordinance passed by the Board of Trustees
after this code goes into effect is invalid, all valid parts which are
severable from the invalid parts remain in effect. If a part of this code or of
any ordinance passed hereinafter is invalid in one or more of its applications,
the part remains in effect in all valid applications which are severable from
the invalid applications.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO STATUTES.
   Reference to the statutes of the state means the statutes as they are now or
as they may be amended, and a reference to the Oklahoma Statutes for a certain
year also means the comparable provision when included in future codifications.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and the word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature passed prior to and in effect at the time the code is adopted but not
included in the code are hereby repealed as of the time when the code goes into
effect.
   (B)   Ordinances passed on or after that date shall not be repealed or
amended by the adoption of the code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.17 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature
passed or adopted on and after the most recent ordinance included in this code
of ordinances may be passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this
code of ordinances or without specific reference to the code, but in either
case, all ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to the
code, and all of the substantive permanent and general parts of the ordinances
and changes made thereby in the code shall be inserted and made in the code
whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution, or ordinance of the
Board of Trustees, as provided hereinafter.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, are listed following the text of the code
section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (11 O.S. § 1-402) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see 51 O.S. §§ 24A.1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the Prior Code section number
shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, § 50.01).”
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the town an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this code or any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished by
a fine of not exceeding that allowable by the 11 O.S. § 14-111. Each day or any
portion of a day during which any violation of this code or any ordinance shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall aid, abet, or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-108) (Ord. passed 2-18-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum fine levied by court with non-lawyer judge, $50.00, see 11 O.S. §
27-119
   Maximum fine levied without jury trial, $750, see 11 O.S. § 27-119
   Maximum fine or deferral fee in lieu of a fine for traffic-related offenses
relating to speeding or parking shall not exceed $200, see 11 O.S. § 14-111
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
Corporate and Ward Limits
   
11.01   Map of town designated as official map
   
11.02   Wards
CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
§ 11.01 MAP OF TOWN DESIGNATED AS OFFICIAL MAP.
   The map of the town showing its territorial limits is hereby designated as
the official map of the town, and the corporate limits as shown thereon are
declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town, including all
annexations made to the town through and including the date of March 1, 1985.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
§ 11.02 WARDS.
   The town is divided into the following wards.
   (A)   Ward No. 1 shall constitute all the portion of the town lying North of
Fifth Street and East of Wyandotte Street.
   (B)   Ward No. 2 shall constitute all the portion of the town lying North of
Fifth Street and West of Wyandotte Street.
   (C)   Ward No. 3 shall constitute all the portion of the town lying South of
Fifth Street from the East City Limits to the West City Limits, South to
Seventh Street.
   (D)   Ward No. 4 shall constitute all the portion of the town which lies
South of Seventh Street to the City Route Road, and West of Shawnee Street.
   (E)   Ward No. 2 shall constitute all the portion of the town which lies
South of Seventh Street and East of Shawnee Street.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)
Statutory reference:
   Trustees of town may be at large, 11 O.S. § 12-103.1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
36.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   General powers
   
30.02   Board of Trustees
   
30.03   Meetings
   
30.04   Rules of order and procedure
   
30.05   Designated Trustees
§ 30.01 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of 11 O.S. § 12-101, the town shall have
all the powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises, and immunities
granted, or which may be granted to towns governed by the statutory town Board
of Trustee’s form of government. These powers shall be exercised as provided by
law applicable to towns under the Board of Trustee’s form of government, or, if
the manner is not prescribed, then in such manner as the Board of Trustees may
prescribe.
   (B)   The powers, rights, and authorities of the town, including the
determination of matters of policy, shall be vested in and exercised by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
Statutory reference:
   Town form of government, see 11 O.S. § 12-101
§ 30.02 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members who shall be
nominated and elected at large without regard to their place of residence
within the corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   Trustees shall be actual residents and registered voters of the
town.
   (B)   (1)   A resolution of the Board of Trustees calling for a general or
special election to fill the office of Trustees shall state the number of four
year terms and the number of unexpired terms, if any, to be filled.
      (2)   The resolution shall direct that the ballot shall state the number
of offices of Trustees to be filled for each term and that the voters shall
vote for the number to be filled.
   (C)   Candidates for the office of Trustee shall file for a specific term,
which shall be designated on the declaration of candidacy. Candidates receiving
the largest pluralities for each designated term shall be elected.
(Prior Code, § 2-102) (Ord. passed 1-6-2003)
Editor’s note:
   This section became effective 1-6-2003.
Statutory reference:
   Elections, see 11 O.S. § 16-205
   Governing board, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-102 and 12-103
   Terms of office, see 11 O.S. § 8-102
   Trustees, at large rather than ward, see 11 O.S. § 12-103.1
   Vacancies in office of Trustee, see 11 O.S. § 8-109
§ 30.03 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet regularly at 6:00 p.m. on the first
and third Mondays of each month, and at such other times as it may prescribe by
ordinance, resolution, or otherwise, at the Town Hall. Where the day for a
meeting falls upon a day which is a legal holiday in the state, the meeting
shall be held on the next succeeding day which is not a holiday. Special
meetings may be called by the Mayor or any three Trustees. A majority of all
the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from day to day.
   (B)   Every meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be held in the Town Hall
unless, in case of an emergency, the Mayor designates another place in the town
for the holding of a special meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held at any
other place within the town designated by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-103) (Ord. passed 5-21-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of Trustees, see 11 O.S. § 12-107
   Open meeting and notice requirements, see 25 O.S. § 301-314
§ 30.04 RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board may determine its own rules, and may compel the attendance
of absent members in the manner and under penalties as the Board may prescribe.
Whenever a Trustee is absent from more than one-half of all meetings of the
Board, regular and special, held within any period of four consecutive months,
he, she, or they shall thereupon cease to hold office.
   (B)   The order of business for each meeting of the Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Determination of a quorum;
      (3)   Reading and approval of the minutes;
      (4)   Purchase order for approval;
      (5)   Old business;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Business from the floor; and
      (8)   Adjournment.
   (C)   The following rules of procedure shall apply to any regular or special
meeting of the Board unless three Trustees agree to waive the rule or rules.
      (1)   At the request of the Mayor or any Board member, all motions shall
be reduced to writing.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the Board shall
not be entertained unless it be made by a member who previously voted in the
majority.
      (3)   No motion shall be debated or put until it be seconded and stated
by the Mayor. It is then and not until then in possession of the Board and
cannot be withdrawn but by leave of the Board.
      (4)   A motion to adjourn is debatable only as to the time to which the
meeting is adjourned. A motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except
as follows:
         (a)   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
         (b)   When made as an interruption of a member while speaking;
         (c)   When the previous question has been ordered; or
         (d)   While a vote is being taken.
      (5)   Several motions shall have precedence in the order they stand
arranged. When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but:
         (a)   To adjourn;
         (b)   To lay on the table;
         (c)   For the previous question;
         (d)   To postpone to a day certain;
         (e)   To commit;
         (f)   To amend; or
         (g)   To postpone indefinitely.
      (6)   When a proper motion is made, but information is wanted, the motion
is to postpone to a day certain.
      (7)   Matters claiming present attention for which it is desired to
reserve for more suitable occasion, the order is a motion to lay on the table;
the matter may then be called for at any time. If the proposition may need
further consideration at the hands of a committee, the motion is to refer to a
committee, but if it need but a few and simple amendments, the Board shall
proceed to consider and amend at once.
      (8)   On an amendment’s being moved, a member who has spoken on the main
question may speak again to the amendment.
      (9)   The question is to be put first on the affirmative and then on the
negative side. After the affirmative part of the question has been put, any
member who has not spoken before to the question may arise and speak before the
negative be put.
      (10)   When a question has been moved and seconded and has been put by
the presiding officer in the affirmative and negative, it cannot be debated
unless under motion for reconsideration.
(Prior Code, § 2-104)
§ 30.05 DESIGNATED TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may designate various ones of its members or a
committee of its members to have supervision of various personnel and
activities of the town, such as streets, water systems and the like, and may
give each such Trustee or committee designated an appropriate title.
   (B)   Each such Trustee or committee so designated shall be subordinate to
the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-105)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Town Officers and Personnel
   
31.01   Mayor
   
31.02   Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.03   Town Attorney
   
31.04   Health Officer
   
31.05   Other personnel; appointments, removals
   
31.06   Bonds
   
31.07   Salaries
   
31.08   Compensation of employees; number and classes of personnel
   
31.09   Salaries of certain officers not to be changed
   
31.10   Oaths
   
31.11   Officers to continue until successors are elected and qualify
   
31.12   Appointment of personnel in emergencies
Social Security
   
31.25   Declaration of policy to come under coverage
   
31.26   Execution of agreement with state agency
   
31.27   Withholdings
   
31.28   Contributions
   
31.29   Records and reports
   
31.30   Exclusions
Fire Pension System
   
31.45   Local Fire Pension and Retirement Board
   
31.46   Fund to be operated in accordance with law
   
31.47   Contributions to fund
TOWN OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
§ 31.01 MAYOR.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall elect from among its members a Mayor. The
Mayor shall be elected in each odd-numbered year at the first Board of Trustees
meeting held after Trustee terms begin, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
The Mayor shall serve until his, her, or their successor has been elected and
qualified.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board and shall certify to
the correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He, she,
or they shall be recognized as head of the town’s government for all ceremonial
purposes and shall have such other powers, duties, and functions as may be
prescribed by law or ordinance. The Mayor shall have all the powers, rights,
duties, and responsibilities of a Trustee, including the right to vote on
questions.
   (C)   During the absence, disability, or suspension of the Mayor, the Board
shall elect from among its members an acting Mayor. When a vacancy occurs in
the office of the Mayor, the Board shall elect another Mayor from among its
members to serve for the duration of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
Statutory reference:
   Election of town Mayor, acting Mayor, see 11 O.S. §§ 12-104 and 12-105
§ 31.02 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the Board of Trustees and said position shall be subject to this
section.
   (B)   There is hereby created the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer, who shall
be elected for a term of four years, beginning at the municipal general
election held in the town, and thereafter for a term of four years as provided
by law for election of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall have and exercise all powers and duties
assigned to him, her, or them by statute and ordinance and such other authority
as may be granted to him, her, or them by the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   All powers and duties assigned to the Town Clerk-Treasurer on or
before the effective date of this section by statute, ordinance or the Board of
Trustees shall be transferred to and held and exercised by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer from and after 12:00 p.m. on the second Monday following the general
municipal election.
   (E)   All powers and duties assigned to the Town Treasurer on or before the
effective date of this section by statute, ordinance, or the Board of Trustees
shall be transferred to and held and exercised by the Town Clerk-Treasurer from
and after 12:00 p.m. on the second Monday following the general municipal
election.
   (F)   The office of the Town Clerk is hereby abolished. Provided, the
effective date of this section shall be 12:00 p.m. on the second Monday
following the general municipal election held April 7, 2009.
   (G)   The office of the Town Treasurer is hereby abolished. Provided, the
effective date of this section shall be 12:00 p.m. on the second Monday
following the general municipal election held April 7, 2009.
   (H)   From and after the effective dates provided herein all references to
the Town Clerk or the Town Treasurer in state statutes shall mean the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (I)   The pay of the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the town shall be $500 per
month. This shall be paid on the first pay period of each month contingent upon
the Town Clerk-Treasurer performance of the Town Clerk-Treasurer legal duties
of the office. Any increase or decrease in the Town Clerk-Treasurer salary for
legal duties shall not go into effect until the next term of office.
   (J)   (1)   The person who serves as Town Clerk-Treasurer may also perform
additional duties not specified by state law as an employee of the town.
      (2)   Said additional duties shall be performed by the person serving as
the Town Clerk-Treasurer or as otherwise provided by motion or other action of
the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The person performing additional administrative duties shall serve
at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees or Mayor and shall perform such duties
as may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees.
   (K)   When the words “Treasurer” or “Town Treasurer” or used in this code or
in other ordinance of the town, they shall be deemed to mean the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or the Deputy Town Clerk-Treasurer unless another meaning is clearly
indicated by the context.
   (L)   When the words “Clerk” or “Town Clerk” are used in this code or in
other ordinance of the town, they shall be deemed to mean the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or the Deputy Town Clerk-Treasurer unless another meaning is clearly
indicated by the context.
   (M)   In accordance with 11 O.S. § 8-106, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
have the authority to appoint one or more Deputy Town Clerk-Treasurer, subject
to confirmation by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk duties, see 11 O.S. § 12-109
   Designation of County Treasurer as Town Treasurer, see 19 O.S. § 645
   Election of Clerk, see 11 O.S. § 16-205
   Town Treasurer duties, see 11 O.S. § 12-110
   Vacancies, see 11 O.S. § 8-109
§ 31.03 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Town Attorney or may secure the services
of an attorney or attorneys on a contractual basis when needed. The Town
Attorney, when and if appointed, shall be the legal adviser of the Board, all
officers, departments, and agencies of the town’s government in matters
relating to their official powers and duties. He, she, or they shall represent
the town in proceedings in the courts. He, she, or they shall perform all
services incident to his, her, or their position which may be required by law
or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-303)
§ 31.04 HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Board of Trustees may appoint a town Health Officer. The county’s Health
Officer or any qualified personnel of the state’s Department of Health may
perform the duties and functions of a town Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2-304)
§ 31.05 OTHER PERSONNEL; APPOINTMENTS, REMOVALS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint such other officers and employees as
it deems desirable and may determine their compensation by motion or
resolution, and may demote, suspend, lay off, or remove all such personnel in
compliance with due process and other requirements of law.
   (B)   An employee or officer who, after a probationary period as set by the
Town Board, is laid off, suspended without pay for more than ten days, demoted,
or removed may appeal in writing to the Town Board. The appeal must be filed
with the Town Clerk-Treasurer for transmittal to the Board within ten days
after the layoff, suspension, demotion, or removal. As soon as practicable
thereafter, the Board shall conduct a hearing on the appeal, or given an
adequate opportunity therefore, and shall report in writing its findings and
recommendations and make its final decision in writing regarding the
appellant’s layoff, suspension, demotion, or removal. If the Board finds that
the layoff, suspension, demotion, or removal, was made for any reason than the
good of the service, it shall veto the layoff, suspension, demotion, or removal
and order the reinstatement of the employee or officer. Any proceedings of the
Board shall be subject to open meeting laws and applicable exceptions provided
for executive sessions. Employees or officers on probationary status may be
laid off, suspended without pay, demoted, or removed at any time without the
written statement, hearings, and procedures required in this section.
   (C)   The town has a personnel policy manual for the employees of the town.
These are the policies and procedures that the employees shall work by. These
policies are subject to change with notice to the employee by the Board of
Trustees. An employee not following the policy and procedure manual is subject
to disciplinary action to include but not limited to termination.
(Prior Code, § 2-305)
§ 31.06 BONDS.
   (A)   The Board shall require the Town Clerk-Treasurer and any other
officers and employees as it may designate by ordinance or otherwise to give
bond for the faithful performance of duties in such amount and form as the
Board shall prescribe.
   (B)   The town shall pay the premiums on such bonds. The town may require
the officer to secure the bond within ten days after his, her, or their
election or appointment.
(Prior Code, § 2-306)
Statutory reference:
   Officer’s bonds, see 11 O.S. § 8-105
§ 31.07 SALARIES.
   (A)   The compensation of all elective town officers, including the
following, shall be fixed by ordinance.
      (1)   The Mayor shall earn $125 per month plus $100 expenses to be paid
monthly.
      (2)   Each Trustee shall earn $5 per meeting plus expenses to be paid at
the end of the fiscal year.
      (3)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall earn $500 per month to be paid
monthly and $5 per meeting to be paid at the end of the fiscal year.
   (B)   Effective date of compensation to take effect after election of said
office.
(Prior Code, § 2-307) (Ord. passed 11-3-1997; Ord. passed 5-19-2008)
Editor’s note:
   Division (B) became effective 1-16-1989).
   For information about increasing or decreasing salary during term, see
Oklahoma Constitution, Art.     23, § 10.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of town elected officers, see 11 O.S. § 12-113
§ 31.08 COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES; NUMBER AND CLASSES OF PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The compensation of all other officers and employees excepting those
whose compensation the law requires to be set by ordinance, may be determined
by motion or resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees, and may be changed at
any time in the same manner.
   (B)   Except as the law provides otherwise, the Board of Trustees may
determine or regulate the number and classes of officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-308)
§ 31.09 SALARIES OF CERTAIN OFFICERS NOT TO BE CHANGED.
   In no case shall the salary or emoluments of any town officer elected or
appointed for a definite term, be changed after his, her, or their election or
appointment or during his, her, or their term of office unless by operation of
an ordinance passed prior to such election or appointment, such being
prohibited by the Constitution, Art. 23, § 10. This provision shall not apply
to officers chosen for indefinite terms nor to employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-309)
§ 31.10 OATHS.
   (A)   All officers of the town, but not employees, are required to take the
oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the state’s constitution before
they enter upon their duties.
   (B)   Both officers and employees are currently required to take and
subscribe to the loyalty oath prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-310)
§ 31.11 OFFICERS TO CONTINUE UNTIL SUCCESSORS ARE ELECTED AND QUALIFY.
   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a definite term, shall
continue to serve thereafter until his, her, or their successor is elected or
appointed and qualifies, unless his, her, or their services are sooner
terminated by resignation, disqualification, removal, death, abolition of the
office, or other legal manner.
(Prior Code, § 2-311)
§ 31.12 APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor may, in an emergency situation, appoint such other officers
and employees as he, she, or they may deem necessary to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the town during the existence of the
emergency, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees as soon as a
special meeting or regular meeting can reasonably be called or held therefor.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may determine the compensation of such
emergency employees by motion or resolution and may direct the demotion, layoff
or removal of such personnel at the conclusion of such emergency.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the term EMERGENCY shall be
defined to mean an unexpected or unforeseen contingency or catastrophic event
affecting the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-312)
SOCIAL SECURITY
§ 31.25 DECLARATION OF POLICY TO COME UNDER COVERAGE.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the town to extend, at
the earliest date, to the eligible employees and officials of the town the
benefits of the system of Federal Old-Age and Survivors insurance as authorized
by the Federal Social Security Act and all amendments thereto, and 51 O.S. §§
121 et seq. In pursuance of this policy, the officers and employees of the town
shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws
or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-401)
Statutory reference:
   Social Security coverage for local governments, see 51 O.S. § 125
§ 31.26 EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT WITH STATE AGENCY.
   The Mayor is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and
amendments with the state’s Department of Human Services to accomplish the
provisions of §
31.25.
(Prior Code, § 2-402)
§ 31.27 WITHHOLDINGS.
   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the
purposes provided in §
31.25 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may
be required by applicable state and federal agency designated by the laws and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-403)
§ 31.28 CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts appropriated for these
purposes from available funds to the designated state or federal agency in
accordance with applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-404)
§ 31.29 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep such records and submit such reports as
may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-405)
§ 31.30 EXCLUSIONS.
   Excluded from this chapter authorizing the extension of social security
benefits to town officers and employees are the following:
   (A)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee, or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
town; or
   (B)   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee, or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any
position, employee, or official not authorized to be covered by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-406)
FIRE PENSION SYSTEM
§ 31.45 LOCAL FIRE PENSION AND RETIREMENT BOARD.
   There is hereby created a Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board
composed of the Mayor, the Clerk, the Treasurer and three members from the Fire
Department. The Board shall have the membership, organization, powers, duties,
and functions as prescribed by 11 O.S. §§ 49-103 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-501)
Statutory reference:
   Firefighters’ retirement and pension law, see 11 O.S. §§ 49-100.11 et seq.
§ 31.46 FUND TO BE OPERATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW.
   The town’s Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement System and fund shall be
operated in accordance with state law relating to the fund and system.
(Prior Code, § 2-502)
§ 31.47 CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each
paid member of the Fire Department the amounts which are required by applicable
state law. If the members of the Fire Department, by a majority vote of its
paid members, vote to increase the amount of the deductions, the amounts
authorized by this division (A) shall be increased to reflect the amounts
approved by the majority vote. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall deposit
monthly in the state’s Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board the amounts
deducted pursuant to this section. Any amounts deducted from the salary or
wages of a Fire Department member shall be made at the time of each payroll.
The deductions shall be set forth in the payroll so that each member may be
able to ascertain the exact amount which he, she, or they is contributing.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit monthly with the state’s
Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board the amounts of money which are
required by applicable state law for each paid member of the Fire Department.
   (C)   For each volunteer member of the Fire Department, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall deposit yearly with the state’s Firefighters’ Pension and
Retirement Board the amounts of money which are required by applicable state
law. These amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as
set by the state’s Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board.
   (D)   All assets of the town’s Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Fund
shall be transferred to the state’s Firefighters’ Pension and Retirement Board.
Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities, and
such other specific assets as permitted by the State Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-503)
Statutory reference:
   Firefighters’ pension law, see 11 O.S. § 49-122
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Finance and Budget Administration
   
32.01   Depositories designated; funds to be deposited
   
32.02   Funds secured by unit collateral system
   
32.03   Contractual services defined for purchasing
   
32.04   Purchases
   
32.05   When prior approval is required
   
32.06   Competitive bidding
   
32.07   When competitive bidding is not required
   
32.08   Sales, Board of Trustees to declare surplus or obsolete competitive
bidding
   
32.09   When competitive bidding is not required on sales
Sales Tax
   
32.20   Citation and codification
   
32.21   Definitions
   
32.32   Tax collector defined
   
32.33   Classification of taxpayers
   
32.34   Subsisting state permits
   
32.35   Effective date
   
32.36   Purpose of revenues
   
32.37   Tax rate; sales subject to tax
   
32.38   Tax due when; returns; records
   
32.39   Payment of tax; brackets
   
32.40   Tax constitutes debt
   
32.41   Vendor’s duty to collect tax
   
32.42   Returns and remittances; discounts
   
32.43   Interest and delinquency
   
32.44   Waiver of interest
   
32.45   Erroneous payments; claim for refund
   
32.46   Fraudulent returns
   
32.47   Records confidential
   
32.48   Amendments
   
32.49   Provisions cumulative
Exemptions
   
32.60   Sales subject to other tax
   
32.61   Governmental and non-profit entities
   
32.62   General
   
32.63   Agriculture
   
32.64   Manufacturers
   
32.65   Corporations and partnerships
 
   
32.99   Penalty
FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
§ 32.01 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED.
   All banks and all savings and loan associations in the town which are
incorporated under federal or state law are hereby designated as depositories
for the funds of the town. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit daily all
public funds received by him, her, or them in such banks or savings and loan
associations.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
Statutory reference:
   Deposits by treasurers, designation of depositories, see 11 O.S. § 12-110
§ 32.02 FUNDS SECURED BY UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM.
   The deposits of the town shall be secured by the Unit Collateral System
provided by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
Statutory reference:
   Unit Collateral System, see 62 O.S. §§ 516.1 et seq.
§ 32.03 CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED FOR PURCHASING.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. Services performed for the town by persons not in the
employment of the town, and may include the use of equipment or the furnishing
of commodities in connection with said services under express or implied
contract. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES shall include travel, freight, express, parcel
post, postage, telephone, telegraph, utilities, rents, printing out, binding,
repairs, alterations and maintenance of buildings, equipment, streets and
bridges, and other physical facilities of the town, and other services
performed for the town by persons not in the employment of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
§ 32.04 PURCHASES.
   All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment, and contractual services
for the offices, departments, and agencies of the town government, shall be
made by the town’s Board of Trustees or by other town personnel in accordance
with purchase authorizations issued by the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.05 WHEN PRIOR APPROVAL IS REQUIRED.
   Every contract for, or purchase of, supplies, materials, equipment, or
contractual services for more than $2,500 shall require the prior approval of
the town’s Board of Trustees; and under no circumstances may such contract or
purchase be made without first obtaining the approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Purchase Order Act, see 62 O.S. § 310.1
§ 32.06 COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   (A)   Before any purchase of, or contract for, supplies, materials,
equipment, or contractual services are made, as otherwise provided below, the
town purchasing authority shall submit to at least three persons, firms, or
corporations dealing in and able to supply the same, or to a smaller number if
there are not three dealing in and able to supply the same, a request for
quotation, or invitation to bid, and specifications, to give them opportunity
to bid, and/or publish notice of the proposed purchase in a newspaper of
general circulation within the town.
   (B)   He, she, or they shall favor a person, firm, or corporation in the
town when this can be done without additional cost to the town, but he, she, or
they shall submit requests for quotation to those outside the town when this
may be necessary to secure bids or to create competitive conditions, or when
he, she, or they thinks that by so doing he, she, or they can make a saving for
the town, and shall purchase from them when he, she, or they can make a saving
for the town.
   (C)   All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated
time and place.
   (D)   He, she, or they may repeatedly reject all bids, and again may submit
to the same or other persons, firms or corporations the request for quotation,
or invitation to bid, and/or again publish notice of the proposed purchase.
   (E)   He, she, or they may purchase from the bidder whose bid is most
advantageous to the town, considering price, quality, date of delivery and so
on, and in case of a tie, may purchase from one of those tying, or may divide
the purchase among those tying, always accepting the bid or bids most
advantageous to the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-1-2019) Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Public Competitive Bidding Law, see 61 O.S. §§ 101 et seq.
§ 32.07 WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING IS NOT REQUIRED.
   The following may be purchased without giving an opportunity for competitive
bidding:
   (A)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services whose cost
does not exceed $2,500 in a single transaction;
   (B)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
   (C)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services purchased from
another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from private
dealers, including government surplus;
   (D)   Equipment to replace existing equipment which has become inoperable
when the Board of Trustees declares the purchase an emergency;
   (E)   Contractual services, including but not limited to natural gas,
electricity, telephone service, purchased from a public utility at a price or
rate determined by the state’s Corporation Commission or other governmental
authority;
   (F)   Supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual services when purchased
at a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the state’s purchasing agency
or any other state agency hereafter authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the state, whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise; and
   (G)   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural, and medical services unless competitive bidding is required by
applicable law or regulations, such as certain federal grants programs.
(Prior Code, § 7-107)
§ 32.08 SALES, BOARD OF TRUSTEES TO DECLARE SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE COMPETITIVE
BIDDING.
   (A)   No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment of a value of
more than $1,000 may be sold until the town’s Board of Trustees have declared
them obsolete or surplus.
   (B)   Before the town’s Board of Trustees sells any surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials, or equipment, except as otherwise provided below, they
shall be advertised for sale in a newspaper of general circulation in the town
or give notice in such other manner as the Board of Trustees deems necessary
adequately to reach prospective buyers to give them opportunity to make bids.
   (C)   All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a designated
time and place, except when the sale is by auction.
   (D)   The town’s Board of Trustees may repeatedly reject all bids and
advertise or give notice again.
   (E)   The town’s Board of Trustees shall sell such supplies, materials, or
equipment to the highest responsible bidder for cash.
   (F)   In case of a tie, the Board of Trustees may sell to either of the
bidders tying, or may divide the sale among two or more tying, always selling
to the highest responsible bidder or bidders for cash.
(Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.09 WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING IS NOT REQUIRED ON SALES.
   The town’s Board of Trustees may sell the following without giving an
opportunity for competitive bidding:
   (A)   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials, or equipment whose total
value does not exceed $1,000 in a single transaction; and
   (B)   Supplies, materials, or equipment when sold at a price at least as
great as that paid by the town for the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-109)
SALES TAX
§ 32.20 CITATION AND CODIFICATION.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “Town of South
Coffeyville Sales Tax Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy (sales) taxes for municipal purposes, see 68 O.S. § 2701
   State Sales Tax Code, see 68 O.S. §§ 1350 et seq.
§ 32.21 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of words, terms, and phrases contained in the state’s Sales
Tax Code, 68 O.S. § 1352, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 32.32 TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town or the official agency of the
state duly designated according to law or contract, and authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax levied in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 32.33 CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the state’s Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 32.34 SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the state’s Tax
Commission pursuant to the state’s Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
subchapter, hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional town permit for the same purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
§ 32.35 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter became effective as to each cent tax after approval of a
majority of the registered voters of the town voting on the ordinance in the
manner prescribed by 11 O.S. § 16-112.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
§ 32.36 PURPOSE OF REVENUES.
   The purpose of the sales tax is to provide revenues for the general
municipal government of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)
§ 32.37 TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX.
   There is hereby levied an excise tax of one percent (2%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the state’s
Sales Tax Code including but not exclusive of the following:
   (A)   Tangible personal property;
   (B)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service except water and those specifically exempt by this
chapter;
   (C)   Transportation for hire of persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, Pullman car companies, airlines, and all other means of
transportation for hire;
   (D)   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or users,
including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This shall
include all services and rental charges having any connection with transmission
of any message;
   (E)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds, and characters and the
service of printing or overprinting, including the copying of information by
mimeograph or multigraph or by otherwise duplicating written or printed matter
in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on
magnetic tapes furnished by customers;
   (F)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public rooming
house, motel, public lodging house, or tourist camps;
   (G)   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels and
parking lots;
   (H)   Selling, renting, or otherwise furnishing computer hardware or
software or coding sheets, cards, or magnetic tapes on which pre-written
programs have been coded, punched, or otherwise recorded;
   (I)   Food, confections, and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants, or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   (J)   Advertising of all kinds, types, and character, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any and all devices
used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising devices,
except those specifically exempt by this chapter;
   (K)   Dues or fees to clubs including free or complimentary dues or fees
which shall have the value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise
been made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services
rendered at a health spa or club or any similar facility or business;
   (L)   Sales of tickets, fees, or other charges made for admission to or
voluntary contributions made to places of amusement, sports entertainment,
exhibition, display, or other recreational events or activities, including free
or complimentary admissions which shall have the value equivalent to the charge
that would have otherwise been made;
   (M)   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind of
activity when no admission is charged spectators, such as tennis, racquetball,
or handball courts;
   (N)   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement, spirts,
entertainment, or recreational activity such as trampolines or golf carts;
   (O)   The rental of equipment for amusement, sports, entertainment, or other
recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts, or other
sports and athletic equipment;
   (P)   The gross receipts from sales through any vending machine, without any
deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a person
who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom;
   (Q)   Gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of tangible
personal property, including rental or lease of personal property when the
rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair, or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered. Provided if the rental or lease
charge is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making the
rental or lease charge is based on the retail value of the property at the time
of making the rental or lease agreement and the expected life of the property,
and the rental or lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in
the statement, bill, or invoice delivered to the consumer, the cost of services
rendered shall be deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds;
   (R)   (1)   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease, or other device or
instrument whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed
performances or rights to receive images, pictures, or performances for
telecast by any method are transferred.
      (2)   Provided, persons regularly engaged in the business of exhibiting
motion pictures for which the sale of tickets or admissions is taxed under this
chapter shall not be deemed to be consumers or users in respect to the
licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture features, shorts,
cartoons, and scenes from copyrighted features and the sale or licensing of
such films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of this chapter;
   (S)   (1)   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees, and other floral items, whether
or not same was produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or
nursery business in the state, including all orders taken by a state business
for delivery in another state.
      (2)   Provided, all orders taken outside the state for delivery within
the state shall not be subject to the tax levied by this chapter;
   (T)   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors, or
other salespeople, for resale where there is likelihood that the state will
lose tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing this chapter because of:
      (1)   The operation of the business;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The turnover of independent contractors;
      (4)   The lack of place of business in which to display a permit or keep
records;
      (5)   Lack of adequate records;
      (6)   The persons are minors or transients;
      (7)   The persons are engaged in service businesses; or
      (8)   Any other reasonable reason.
   (U)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property including
materials, supplies, and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though such real estate is intended
for resale as real property are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or
users and taxable;
   (V)   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons
who are primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repairmen, are
hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users and taxable; and
   (W)   Retail sales of medical marijuana, medical marijuana-derived products,
and related paraphernalia.
(Prior Code, § 7-208) (Ord. 2018-11, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.38 TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the state’s
Sales Tax Code.
(Prior Code, § 7-215)
§ 32.39 PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS.
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the Tax Collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   (B)   The bracket system for the collection of the town sales tax by the Tax
Collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
town and the Tax Collector, in the collection of both the town sales tax and
the state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 7-216)
§ 32.40 TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT.
   The taxes, penalty, and interest due under this chapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Prior Code, § 7-217)
§ 32.41 VENDOR’S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX.
   (A)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It is the duty of each vendor in the town to collect from the consumer
or user the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter, or an amount equal
as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent thereof.
   (B)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall constitute
a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or user to
vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts.
(Prior Code, § 7-218)
§ 32.42 RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Collector at the time and in the manner, form, and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder and shall be
subject to the same discount as may be allowed by the state’s Sales Tax Code
for collection of state sales taxes.
(Prior Code, § 7-219)
§ 32.43 INTEREST AND DELINQUENCY.
   Title 68 O.S. § 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter, and
interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein specified are
hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in reporting and
paying the tax levied by this chapter. The failure or refusal of any taxpayer
to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner
required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if
the delinquency continues for a period of five days, the taxpayer shall forfeit
his, her, or their claim to any discount allowed under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-220) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.44 WAIVER OF INTEREST.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer’s failure to pay the town tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in administration
of the state sales tax provided in 68 O.S. § 220. To accomplish the purposes of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 220 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-221)
§ 32.45 ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the town sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in 68 O.S. § 227. To accomplish the purpose of
this section, the applicable provisions of 68 O.S. § 227 are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-222)
§ 32.46 FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this chapter shall be an offense, and upon conviction thereof the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-223)
§ 32.47 RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the town sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of the state’s Sales Tax Code,
68 O.S. § 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the town sales tax as
if here set forth in full.
(Prior Code, § 7-224)
§ 32.48 AMENDMENTS.
   The people of the town, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance hereby
authorize the town’s Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the town as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-225)
§ 32.49 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-226)
EXEMPTIONS
§ 32.60 SALES SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX.
   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter
the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the state’s Sales Tax Code
inclusive, but not exclusive of, and derived from the sale of:
   (A)   Gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline excise
tax, or special fuels tax levied by state law has been paid;
   (B)   Motor vehicles or any optional equipment or accessories attached to
motor vehicles on which the state’s Motor Vehicle Excise Tax levied by state
law has been paid;
   (C)   Crude petroleum or natural or casing-head gas and other products
subject to gross production tax under state law. This exemption shall not apply
when such products are sold to consumer or user for consumption or use, except
when used for injection into the earth for the purpose of promoting or
facilitating the production of oil or gas. This division (C) shall not operate
to increase or repeal the gross production tax levied by the laws of this
state; and
   (D)   Aircraft on which the tax levied pursuant to 68 O.S. §§ 6001 through
6004 has been paid. The provisions of this division (D) shall not become
operative until July 1, 1984.
(Prior Code, § 7-209)
§ 32.61 GOVERNMENTAL AND NON-PROFIT ENTITIES.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   (A)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to the United States
government or to the state, any political subdivision of the state or any
agency of a political subdivision of the state; provided, all sales to
contractors in connection with the performance of any contract with the United
States government, the state, or any of its political subdivisions shall not be
exempted from the tax levied by this chapter, except as hereinafter provided;
   (B)   Sales made directly by county, district, or state fair authorities of
the state, upon the premises of the fair authority, for the sole benefit of the
fair authority;
   (C)   Sale of food in cafeterias or lunch rooms of elementary schools, high
schools, colleges or universities which are operated primarily for teachers and
pupils and are not operated primarily for the public or for profit;
   (D)   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable, or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof, provided, such societies
or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan or
system, and provided such societies or organizations do not operate for a
profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members thereof
to the exclusion of other members;
   (E)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except sales made in the course of business for profit or savings, competing
with other persons engaged in the same or similar business;
   (F)   The amount of proceeds received from the sale of admission tickets
which is separately stated on the ticket of admission for the repayment of
money borrowed by any accredited state-supported college or university for the
purpose of constructing or enlarging any facility to be used for the staging of
an athletic event, a theatrical production, or any other form of entertainment,
edification or cultural cultivation to which entry is gained with a paid
admission ticket. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, athletic
fields, athletic stadiums, field houses, amphitheaters, and theaters. To be
eligible for this sales tax exemption, the amount separately stated on the
admission ticket shall be a surcharge which is imposed, collected and used for
the sole purpose of servicing or aiding in the servicing of debt incurred by
the college or university to effect the capital improvements hereinbefore
described;
   (G)   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the town’s Board of
Trustees by organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the Boy
Scouts of America, Girl Scouts of U.S.A. and the Campfire Girls shall be exempt
from sales tax; or
   (H)   (1)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to any county,
municipality, public school district, the institutions of the state’s system of
higher education and the Grand River Dam Authority, or to any person with whom
any of the above named subdivisions or agencies of the state has duly entered
into a public contract pursuant to law, necessary for carrying out such public
contract.
      (2)   Any person making purchases on behalf of such subdivision or agency
of the state shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor that the purchases are made for and on
behalf of such subdivision or agency of the state and set out the name of such
public subdivision or agency.
(Prior Code, § 7-210) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.62 GENERAL.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   (A)   Transportation of school pupils to and from elementary schools or high
schools in motor or other vehicles;
   (B)   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not
exceed $1, or local transportation of persons within the corporate limits of a
municipality except by taxicab;
   (C)   Carrier sales of newspapers and periodicals made directly to
consumers. Other sales of newspapers and periodicals where any individual
transaction does not exceed $0.75. A carrier is a person who regularly delivers
newspapers or periodicals to subscribers on an assigned route;
   (D)   Sales for resale to persons engaged in the business of reselling the
articles purchased, whether within or without the state, provided that such
sales to residents of the state are made to persons to whom sales tax permits
have been issued as provided in this chapter. This exemption shall not apply to
the sales of articles made to persons holding permits when such persons
purchase items for their use and which they are not regularly engaged in the
business of reselling; neither shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible
personal property to peddlers, solicitors, and other salespeople who do not
have an established place of business and a sales tax permit;
   (E)   Sales of advertising space in newspapers and periodicals and billboard
advertising service, and any advertising through the electronic media,
including radio, television, and cable television;
   (F)   Eggs, feed, supplies, machinery, and equipment purchased by persons
regularly engaged in the business of raising worms, fish, any insect or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic animal life and used for the purpose of
raising same for marketing. This exemption shall only be granted and extended
to the purchaser when the items are to be used and in fact are used in the
raising of animal life as set out above. Each purchaser shall certify, in
writing, on the invoice or sales ticket retained by the vendor that he, she, or
they is regularly engaged in the business of raising such animal life and that
the items purchased will be used only in such business. The vendor shall
certify to the state’s Tax Commission that the price of the items has been
reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the
purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor;
   (G)   Sales of medicine or drugs prescribed for the treatment of human
beings by a person licensed to prescribe the medicine or drugs. This exemption
shall not apply to proprietary or patient medicines as defined by 59 O.S. §
353.1; and
   (H)   Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting the town
from levying and collecting taxes on the sale of natural or artificial gas and
electricity, whether sold for residential or any other use after December 31,
1980. The sales tax levied by the town on natural or artificial gas and
electricity shall be in effect regardless of any ordinance or contractual
provisions referring to previously imposed state sales tax on such items.
(Prior Code, § 7-211) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.63 AGRICULTURE.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   (A)   Sales of agricultural products produced in the state by the producer
thereof directly to the consumer or user when such articles are sold at or from
a farm and not from some other place of business, as follows:
      (1)   Farm, orchard, or garden products;
      (2)   Dairy products sold by a dairyman or farmer who owns all the cows
from which the dairy products offered for sale are produced;
      (3)   Livestock sold by the producer at a special livestock sale; and
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed as exempting
sales by florists, nurserymen, or chicken hatcheries, or sales of dairy
products by any other business except as set out herein.
   (B)   Sale of baby chicks, turkey poults, and starter pullets used in the
commercial production of chickens, turkeys, and eggs, provided that the
purchaser certifies, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to
be retained by the vendor that the pullets will be used primarily for egg
production;
   (C)   Sale of salt, grains, tankage, oyster shells, mineral supplements,
limestone, and other generally recognized animal feeds for the following
purposes and subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   Feed which is fed to poultry and livestock, including breeding
stock and wool-bearing stock, for the purpose of producing eggs, poultry, milk,
or meat for human consumption;
      (2)   Feed purchased in the state for the purpose of being fed to and
which is fed by the purchaser to horses, mules, or other domestic of draft
animals used directly in the producing and marketing of agricultural products;
      (3)   Any stock tonics, water purifying products, stock sprays,
disinfectants, or other such agricultural supplies;
      (4)   Poultry shall not be construed to include any fowl other than
domestic fowl kept and raised for the market or production of eggs;
      (5)   Livestock shall not be construed to include any pet animals such as
dogs, cats, birds, or such other fur-bearing animals; and
      (6)   This exemption shall only be granted and extended where the
purchaser of feed that is to be used and in fact is used for a purpose that
would bring about an exemption hereunder executes an invoice or sales ticket in
duplicate on a form to be prescribed by the Tax Commission. The purchaser may
demand and receive a copy of the invoice or sales ticket and the vendor shall
retain a copy.
   (D)   Sales of items to be and in fact used in the production of
agricultural products. Sale of the following items shall be subject to the
following limitations:
      (1)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person regularly engaged,
for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor, that he, she, or they is so engaged in farming or ranching and
that the material purchased will be used only in such business;
      (2)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged in the
business of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land owned
or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall certify, in writing,
on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor that
he, she, or they is engaged in the business of applying such materials to lands
owned or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming or ranching, and shall show in the certificate the name or
names of such owner or lessee and operator, the location of the lands on which
the materials are to be applied to each such land, and he, she, or they shall
further certify that his, her, or their contract price has been reduced so as
to give the farmer or rancher the full benefit of this exemption;
      (3)   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to persons engaged in the business
of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis shall not be
considered to be sales to contractors under this chapter, and the sales shall
not be considered to be taxable sales within the meaning of the state’s Sales
Tax Code. As used in this section, AGRICULTURAL FERTILIZER means any substance
sold and used for soil enrichment or soil corrective purposes or for promoting
the growth and productivity of plants;
      (4)   Sales of agricultural seed or plants to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. This section shall
not be construed as exempting from sales tax, seed which is packaged and sold
for use in non-commercial flower and vegetable gardens;
      (5)   Livestock shall not be construed to include any pet animals such as
dogs, cats, birds, or other fur-bearing animals; and
      (6)   This exemption shall only be granted and extended to the purchaser
where the items are to be used and in fact are used in the production of
agricultural products. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of
the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material
purchased will only be used in his, her, or their farming occupation. The
vendor shall certify to the state’s Tax Commission that the contract price of
the items has been reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption.
Violation hereof by the purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor, and, upon
violation and conviction for a second offense the state’s Tax Commission shall
revoke the vendor’s sales tax permit.
   (E)   (1)   Sale of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel, oil
lubricants, and other substances used for operation and maintenance of the farm
machinery to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production,
cultivation, planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation,
or irrigation of any livestock, poultry, agricultural, or dairy products
produced from such lands.
      (2)   Each purchaser of farm machinery, repair parts thereto, or fuel
must certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be
retained by the vendor, that he, she, or they is engaged in farming or ranching
and that the farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel will be used only in
farming or ranching.
      (3)   The exemption provided for herein shall not apply to motor
vehicles.
      (4)   Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the
invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material
purchased will only be used in his, her, or their farming occupation.
      (5)   The vendor shall certify to the state’s Tax Commission that the
price of the items has been reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption.
(Prior Code, § 7-212)
§ 32.64 MANUFACTURERS.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   (A)   Goods, wares, merchandise, and property purchased for the purpose of
being used or consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling, or preparing for sale a finished article and such
goods, wares, merchandise, or property become integral parts of the
manufactured, compounded, processed, assembled, or prepared products or are
consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling,
or preparing products for resale. The term MANUFACTURING PLANTS shall mean
those establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing
operations, and generally recognized as such;
   (B)   Ethyl alcohol when sold and used for the purpose of blending same with
motor fuel on which motor fuel tax is levied by state law;
   (C)   Sale of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing plants in the state, and machinery and equipment
purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing plants already
established in the state. This exemption shall not apply unless such machinery
and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to taxation under this chapter. The term
MANUFACTURING PLANTS means those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
   (D)   Sales of containers when sold to a person regularly engaged in the
business of reselling empty or filled containers or when purchased for the
purpose of packaging raw products of farm, garden, or orchard for resale to the
consumer or processor. This exemption shall not apply to the sale of any
containers used more than once and which are ordinarily know as returnable
containers, except returnable soft drink bottles. Each transfer of title or
possession of such returnable container in the state to any person who is not
regularly engaged in the business of selling, reselling, or otherwise
transferring empty or filled containers shall be taxable under this code. This
exemption shall not apply to the sale of labels or other materials delivered
along with items sold but which are not necessary or absolutely essential to
the sale of the sold merchandise; and
   (E)   Sale of tangible personal property manufactured in the state when sold
by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state.
(Prior Code, § 7-213)
§ 32.65 CORPORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS.
   There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied in this chapter:
   (A)   The transfer of tangible personal property, as follows:
      (1)   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this section, the term REORGANIZATION means a
statutory merger or consolidation or the acquisition by a corporation of
substantially all of the properties of another corporation when the
consideration is solely all or a part of the voting stock of the acquiring
corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary corporation;
      (2)   In connection with the winding up, dissolution, or liquidation of a
corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
      (3)   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such
corporation where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately
after the transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities
received by each is substantially in proportion to his, her, or their interest
in the property prior to the transfer;
      (4)   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the
former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer,
members of such partnership and the interest in the partnership, received by
each, is substantially in proportion to his, her, or their interest in the
property prior to the transfer; or
      (5)   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of such partnership.
   (B)   Sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other person who after such sale owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on
such tangible personal property.
(Prior Code, § 7-214)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who willfully or intentionally
fails, neglects, or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by
this chapter, or willfully or intentionally fails, neglects, or refuses to
comply with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either
directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax
herein levied, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he, she, or they is absorbing the tax, or paying
the tax for the consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price
including the tax, or in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the town. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture, or association that willfully or
intentionally fails, neglects, or refuses to collect the sums required to be
collected or paid shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-218)
   (C)   Any person who wrongfully or erroneously certifies that purchases are
for any of the subdivision or agencies of the state named in §
32.61 or who otherwise violates §
32.61 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined an amount equal to double the amount of the sales tax involved or
incarcerated for not more than 60 days or both.
(Prior Code, § 7-210)
   (D)   Violation of §
32.63 by the purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor, and, upon violation
and conviction for a second offense the state’s Tax Commission shall revoke the
vendor’s sales tax permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-212)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   National Incident Management System
Emergency Preparedness
   
33.15   Purpose of Emergency Management Organization
   
33.16   Department established
   
33.17   Duties of Director
   
33.18   Powers of Director in emergencies
   
33.19   Compensation of members
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The National Incident Management System (NIMS) is hereby established
as the standard for incident management in the town.
   (B)   All departments, employees, and agencies of the town will/shall follow
the guidelines set forth by the National Incident Management System.
(Res. 2006-04, passed 8-21-2006; Res. 2006-05, passed 9-18-2006; Res. 2008-06,
passed - -2006)
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
§ 33.15 PURPOSE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   An Emergency Management Organization is created for the town to carry out
preparations for and to function in the event of emergencies endangering the
lives and property of the people of the town. The duties of the Emergency
Management Organization are the protection of the lives and health of the
citizens and of property and property rights, both private and public, and
performance of all functions necessary and incident thereto.
(Prior Code, § 13-301)
Statutory reference:
   Local civil defense organizations, see 63 O.S. § 683.11
§ 33.16 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government a
Department of Emergency Management which shall consist of:
   (A)   An Emergency Management Director (EMD) who shall be appointed and may
be removed with or without cause by the Mayor; and
   (B)   An Emergency Management Advisory Committee. This Committee shall
consist of the Mayor as Chairperson and five members appointed by the Mayor and
serving at his, her, or their pleasure. The Committee shall select from its
members a Vice-Chairperson and Secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are
directed by the Mayor, and its function shall be to act in an advisory capacity
as needed or requested by the Mayor or the Emergency Management Director.
(Prior Code, § 13-302)
§ 33.17 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Director shall be the executive head of the
Department of the Emergency Management and shall be responsible for carrying
out the emergency management program of the town.
   (B)   He, she, or they shall serve without compensation but may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of his, her, or their
duties.
   (C)   It is the duty of the Emergency Management Director as soon as
practicable after his, her, or their appointment to perfect an organization to
carry out the purposes set forth in this chapter and he, she, or they shall
have all necessary power and authority to form committees or other bodies and
to appoint and designate the Chairperson or Chief Officer of such bodies as may
be necessary to perfect such an organization.
   (D)   He, she, or they shall have further duty and responsibility to
cooperate with all emergency management agencies of other governmental units,
including the state and the federal government.
   (E)   The Emergency Management Director is further authorized to formulate
written plans and gather information and keep written record thereof to govern
the functions of the emergency management organization.
(Prior Code, § 13-303)
§ 33.18 POWERS OF DIRECTOR IN EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In the event of an enemy-caused emergency or emergency resulting from
natural causes, the Emergency Management Director, after due authorization from
the Mayor, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and
regulations relating to emergency management and, if necessary, take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine, and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He,
she, or they shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other
governmental agencies of emergency management organizations. If required by the
Mayor, the Director, shall have control over any and all funds allocated from
any source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in the town.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Director and other members of the emergency
management organization created by him, her, or them shall have the power and
authority to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the town during
the period of emergency and shall at such time have the further power to make
arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances.
   (C)   The Emergency Management Director, after due authorization of the
Mayor, shall have the power and authority to employee personnel at a (minimum)
hourly rate of $9 per hour, to assist the Emergency Management Director in
enforcing all rules and regulations relating to emergency management.
(Prior Code, § 13-304)
§ 33.19 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Most members, with the exception of the Emergency Management Director
(EMD) created in this chapter shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   The EMD, when called upon by the town to serve in his, her, or their
official capacity in training and/or in the event of an emergency shall be paid
at the rate of $12.50 per hour, with a minimum of four hours.
   (C)   At no time will the Emergency Management director accumulate comp time
while serving in his, her, or their official capacity.
   (D)   All training shall be approved by the Town Council.
   (E)   When the Emergency Management Director feels a situation arise that
needs his, her, or their attention, he, she, or they shall call the Mayor of
the town for authorization to be activated.
   (F)   The EMD shall be paid an irregular part-time rate in line with the
U.S. Department of Labor Wage and Hour Division, at a minimum of 20 hours per
week.
(Prior Code, § 13-305)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Police Department created; Chief
   
34.02   Duties
   
34.03   Police officers
   
34.04   Auxiliary police reserve created
Fire Department
   
34.15   Fire Department created; Chief
   
34.16   Volunteer department; number of firefighters
   
34.17   Fire Chief
   
34.18   Assistant Chief
   
34.19   Company officers
   
34.20   Secretary-Treasurer
   
34.21   New members
   
34.22   Bylaws
   
34.23   Duties
   
34.24   Rules and regulations
   
34.25   Answering calls outside limits; fees
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF.
   There shall be a Police Department, the head of which is the Chief of
Police, or Police Chief, appointed by the town’s Board of Trustees and
removable by the Board. The Chief of Police is an officer of the town, and has
supervision and control of the Police Department. All police officers are
officers of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-201)
Statutory reference:
   Police Department and duties, see 11 O.S. §§ 34-101 et seq.
§ 34.02 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Police Department to apprehend and arrest on view or
on warrant and bring to justice all violators of the ordinances of the town; to
suppress all riots, affrays, and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve all warrants, writs,
executions, and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. The Police Department has
charge of and operates the town jail.
(Prior Code, § 13-202)
§ 34.03 POLICE OFFICERS.
   Police officers shall be appointed, subject to approval of the town’s Board
of Trustees, and shall perform such duties as shall be required of them by the
Chief of Police, town ordinances, federal, state, and county regulations and
any other actions required in the maintenance of good order and public peace.
(Prior Code, § 13-203) (Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-2-2017; Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-
3-2020)
§ 34.04 AUXILIARY POLICE RESERVE CREATED.
   (A)   In addition to regular full-time municipal police officers there shall
be established an Auxiliary Police Reserve for the town as deemed necessary by
the town’s Trustees. Members of the Auxiliary Police Reserve shall be appointed
by the Chief of Police subject to approval and confirmation by the town’s
Trustees.
   (B)   Auxiliary Police Reserve officers shall have the powers, duties, and
functions as set forth by law or ordinance for regular full time municipal
police officers as long as members of the auxiliary Police Reserve are under
the supervision of a commissioned municipal police officer.
   (C)   Auxiliary Police Reserve officers shall have no powers of arrest and
shall not carry firearms while such police reserve officers are not on
uniformed duty or as directed by a commissioned peace officer by the state.
   (D)   Auxiliary Police Reserve officers shall not receive financial
compensation but shall be strictly volunteers. Nothing in this section is
intended to exclude donations from private parties to the Police Department to
be used for purposes of training both commissioned and auxiliary police
officers.
   (E)   Auxiliary Police Reserve officers shall perform their duties no less
than 16 hours per week and no more than 25 hours per week. All such Auxiliary
Police Reserve officers must meet the minimum requirements of the state
statutes.
(Prior Code, § 13-204)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.15 FIRE DEPARTMENT CREATED; CHIEF.
   There is a Fire Department, the head of which is the Chief of the Fire
Department or Fire Chief, appointed by the town’s Board of Trustees, and
removable by the Trustees. The Chief of the Fire Department is an officer of
the town and has supervision and control of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-401)
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on municipal volunteer departments, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-201 et seq.
§ 34.16 VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT; NUMBER OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   The Fire Department of the town is a volunteer Fire Department which
has in its employ not more than two full-time salaried firefighters, and not
less than 12 or more than 20 volunteer firefighters.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, a VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER shall be
considered as one who is enrolled as a member of the Fire Department and who
serves in that capacity without receiving a regular salary.
(Prior Code, § 13-402)
§ 34.17 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief is at the head of the Department, subject to the laws of the
state, ordinances of the town, and the rules and regulations herein adopted.
The Chief shall be held responsible for the general condition and efficient
operation of the Department, the training of members, and the performance of
all other duties imposed upon him, her, or them. The Chief shall be paid $60 a
month for performance of his, her, or their duties.
(Prior Code, § 13-403)
§ 34.18 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Chief, the Assistant Chief on duty shall command the
Department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 13-404)
§ 34.19 COMPANY OFFICERS.
   The company officers shall be selected upon their ability to meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   Knowledge of firefighting;
   (B)   Leadership ability; and
   (C)   Knowledge of firefighting equipment.
(Prior Code, § 13-405)
§ 34.20 SECRETARY-TREASURER.
   One member elected by the Fire Department shall be Secretary-Treasurer. His,
her, or their duties shall consist of the following:
   (A)   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
   (B)   Keeping the minutes of each meeting; and
   (C)   Collecting any money due to the Department by the members.
(Prior Code, § 13-406)
§ 34.21 NEW MEMBERS.
   (A)   All new members shall be on probation for one year after their
appointment.
   (B)   New volunteer members upon completion of their probation period must
be approved by the majority of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-407)
§ 34.22 BYLAWS.
   The bylaws of the Department shall include the following:
   (A)   All volunteer firefighters are required, when notified, to respond to
alarms of fire and other emergencies;
   (B)   They are required to be present at all regular meetings, call
meetings, and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters;
   (C)   There shall be at least one regular business meeting each month;
   (D)   Any volunteer firefighter having two unexcused absences in succession
or three unexcused absences in a period of three months will be dropped from
the Fire Department rolls;
   (E)   Volunteer firefighters leaving town for an extended period of time
will be required to notify the Chief;
   (F)   Any volunteer firefighter refusing to attend training classes provided
for him, her, or them will be dropped; and
   (G)   Any volunteer member of the Fire Department shall be dropped from the
rolls for the following offenses:
      (1)   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      (2)   Any act of insubordination;
      (3)   Neglect of duty;
      (4)   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the Fire
Department; or
      (5)   Conviction of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 13-408)
§ 34.23 DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Fire Department, among others, to extinguish fires, to
rescue persons endangered by fire, to resuscitate, and to administer first aid
to, persons injured in or about burning structures or elsewhere in case of an
emergency, to promote fire prevention and unless otherwise provided, to enforce
all ordinances relating to fires, fire prevention, and safety of persons from
fire and explosions in theaters, stores, and other public buildings.
(Prior Code, § 13-409)
§ 34.24 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The town’s Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may adopt rules and
regulations governing the Fire Department. All firefighters shall be of legal
age, in good health, and residents of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-410)
§ 34.25 ANSWERING CALLS OUTSIDE LIMITS; FEES.
   The Fire Department in accordance with any regulations the town’s Board of
Trustees may prescribe may respond to calls outside the town limits. In
answering calls outside the limits or performing fire prevention, rescue,
resuscitation, first aid, inspection, or any other official work outside the
town limits, the Department shall be considered an agent of the state and
acting in a governmental capacity. The town shall not be liable for any act of
commission, omission, or negligence in answering, returning from, or performing
such work outside the limits. The fees for such calls shall be set by the Town
Board by motion or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 13-411)
Statutory reference:
   Mutual aid, answering calls outside limits, see 11 O.S. §§ 29-106 through
29-109
CHAPTER 35: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
Administration
   
35.01   Organization of Municipal Court
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Jurisdiction of Court
   
35.04   Judge; qualifications
   
35.05   Term of Judge
   
35.06   Alternate Judge
   
35.07   Acting Judge
   
35.08   Appointment of Judge and alternate Judge
   
35.09   Salary and payments to Judge
   
35.10   Removal of Judge
   
35.11   Vacancy in office of Judge
   
35.12   Disqualification of Judge
   
35.13   Court Marshal
   
35.14   Clerk of the Court; duties
   
35.15   Prosecuting attorney; duties; conflict of interest
   
35.16   Bond of Clerk
Rules and Enforcement
   
35.30   Rules of Court
   
35.31   Enforcement of rules
   
35.32   Written complaints to prosecute ordinance violations
   
35.33   Traffic ordinance violations; procedures for issuing citation; custody;
arrest
   
35.34   Creation of Traffic Violations Bureau
   
35.35   Summons for arrest
   
35.36   Form of arrest warrant
   
35.37   Procedures for bail or bond
   
35.38   Deposit of driver’s license as bail for traffic violations
   
35.39   Arraignment and pleadings by defendant
   
35.40   Trials and judgments
   
35.41   Witness fees
   
35.42   Suspension of sentence
   
35.43   Imprisonment; work by prisoners
   
35.44   Fines and costs
   
35.45   Deduction from fines for Training Fund
ADMINISTRATION
§ 35.01 ORGANIZATION OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Criminal Court of the town, as put into operation by resolution, duly passed
and filed in accordance with law, as authorized by 11 O.S. §§ 27-101 and 27-
102. To the extent of conflict between any provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any ordinance of the town, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Courts not of record, organization, rules, and procedures, see 11
O.S. §§ 27-101 through 27-131
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
municipality.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the municipality, including any
deputy or member of the office staff of the Clerk-Treasurer while performing
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the Town of South Coffeyville.
   GOVERNING BODY. The town’s Board of Trustees.
   JUDGE. The Judge of the Municipal Court, including any action Judge or
alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of the state and this
chapter.
   JUDICIAL DISTRICT. The District Court Judicial District of the state wherein
the government of the municipality is situated.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of South Coffeyville, Oklahoma.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 35.03 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The Court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of the municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the Court in accordance
with applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
§ 35.04 JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS.
   There shall be one Judge of the Court. A Judge need not be an attorney
licensed to practice law in the state. A Judge who is a licensed attorney may
engage in the practice of law in other courts, but he, she, or they shall not
accept employment inconsistent with his, her, or their duties as Judge, or
arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases of
proceedings therein. He, she, or they may serve as Judge of other Municipal
Courts, if such service may be accomplished consistently with his, her, or
their duties as Judge of the Court, with the consent of the Mayor and Council.
If no licensed attorney residing within the county is willing to accept
appointment as Judge, a resident of the municipality, of the age of 25 years or
older, possessed of good moral character, may be appointed Judge.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
§ 35.05 TERM OF JUDGE.
   The official term of the Judge shall be two years expiring each odd-numbered
year. Each Judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause, shall serve until
his, her, or their successor is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 35.06 ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   There shall be appointed for each Judge of the Court an alternate
Judge possessed of the same qualifications required of the Judge in this
chapter.
   (B)   His, her, or their appointment shall be for the same term and made in
the same manner as the Judge.
   (C)   He, she, or they shall sit as acting Judge of the Court in any case if
the Judge is:
      (1)   Absent from the Court;
      (2)   Unable to act as Judge; or
      (3)   Disqualified from acting as Judge in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
§ 35.07 ACTING JUDGE.
   If at any time there is no Judge or alternate Judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as Judge, the Mayor shall appoint some person,
possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the Judge, who shall
preside as acting Judge over the Court in the disposition of pending matters
until such time as a Judge or alternate Judge shall be available.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)
§ 35.08 APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE AND ALTERNATE JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges and alternate Judges shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
consent of the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in
writing to the governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled
meeting prior to the day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and
shall be acted upon at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (B)   (1)   The governing body may decide upon the proposed appointment by a
majority vote of a quorum present and acting.
      (2)   Failure of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent
action thereon at a later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body
unless the Mayor, in writing, withdraws the proposed appointment.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 35.09 SALARY AND PAYMENTS TO JUDGE.
   (A)   A Judge, other than an alternate Judge or an acting Judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the governing body, by motion or resolution, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of the municipality.
   (B)   An alternate Judge or an acting Judge shall be paid an amount as set
by motion or resolution of the governing body, however payments to an acting or
alternate Judge shall not exceed the salary set for a Judge in whose stead he,
she, or they sits.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
§ 35.10 REMOVAL OF JUDGE.
   (A)   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing body
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of the state for the
removal of public officers.
   (B)   Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the filing of a
verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to constitute one or
more legal grounds for removal.
   (C)   Petitions may be signed and filed by:
      (1)   The Mayor; or
      (2)   Twenty-five or more qualified electors of the municipality.
   (D)   Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be
executed by one or more of the petitioners. The governing body shall set a date
for hearing the matter and shall cause notice thereof, together with a copy of
the petition, to be served personally upon the Judge at least ten days before
the hearing. At the hearing, the Judge shall be entitled to:
      (1)   Representation by counsel;
      (2)   To present testimony and to cross-examine the witnesses against
him, her, or them; and
      (3)   Have all evidence against him, her, or them presented in open
hearing.
   (E)   (1)   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the state’s
Administrative Procedures Act governing individual proceedings (75 O.S. §§ 309
to 317 as amended) shall govern removal proceedings hereunder.
      (2)   Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by
a majority of all members of the governing body, in favor of such removal.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
§ 35.11 VACANCY IN OFFICE OF JUDGE.
   (A)   A vacancy in the office of Judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      (1)   Dies;
      (2)   Resigns;
      (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      (4)   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Judge, the Mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)
§ 35.12 DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE.
   In prosecutions before the Court, no change of venue shall be allowed; but
the Judge before whom the case is pending may certify his, her, or their
disqualification of he, she, or they may be disqualified from sitting under the
terms, conditions, and procedure provided by law for Courts of record. If a
Judge is disqualified, the matter shall be heard by an alternate or acting
Judge appointed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)
§ 35.13 COURT MARSHAL.
   All writs or process of the Court shall be directed, in his, her, or their
official title, to the Chief of Police of the municipality, who shall be the
principal officer of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-113)
§ 35.14 CLERK OF THE COURT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer, or a deputy designated by him, her, or them shall
be the Clerk of the Court. He, she, or they shall:
      (1)   Assist the Judge in recording the proceedings of the Court and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers;
      (2)   Administer oaths required in proceedings before the Court;
      (3)   Enter all pleadings, processes, and proceedings in the dockets of
the Court;
      (4)   Perform such other clerical duties relating to the proceedings of
the Court as the Judge shall direct;
      (5)   Receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines, deposits, and sums of
money payable to the Court; and
      (6)   Pay to the treasurer of the municipality all money so received by
him, her, or them, except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to
be disbursed by him, her, or them for special purposes.
   (B)   All money paid to the Treasurer shall be placed in the General Fund of
the municipality, or in such other funds as the governing body may direct, and
it shall be used in the operation of the municipal government in accordance
with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is placed.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)
§ 35.15 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY; DUTIES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The attorney for the municipality, or his, her, or their duly
designated assistant, shall be the prosecuting officer of the Court. He, she,
or they shall also prosecute all alleged violations of the ordinances of the
town. He, she, or they shall be authorized, in his, her, or their discretion,
to prosecute and resist appeal, proceedings in error and review from the Court
to any other Court of the state, and to represent the municipality in all
proceedings arising out of the matters in the Court.
   (B)   No person shall be prosecuted in the Municipal Court for the town for
violations of the Municipal Ordinance for the town unless the complaint or
citation is signed by the Town Attorney or by a person designated by the Town
Council to act in lieu of the Town Attorney.
      (1)   The following persons are designated or authorized by the Town
Council to sign complaints or citations for prosecution in Municipal Court in
addition to the Town Attorney, to wit: Any of the five Town Council members
duly elected by the town.
      (2)   Nothing in this section is intended to prevent or interfere with
the waiver of the requirements set forth above by the Defendant in Municipal
Court by failing to timely object to any unsigned citation or complaint or by
other means of waiver as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-115)
§ 35.16 BOND OF CLERK.
   The Court Clerk shall give bond, in the form provided by 11 O.S. § 27-111.
When executed, the bond shall be submitted to the governing body for approval.
When approved, it shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the municipality
and retained in the municipal archives.
(Prior Code, § 6-116)
RULES AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 35.30 RULES OF COURT.
   The Judge may prescribe rules consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of the municipality for the proper conduct of the business of
the Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)
§ 35.31 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   Obedience to the orders, rules, and judgments made by the Judge or by the
Court may be enforced by the Judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed as to him, her, or them while holding Court, or committed against
process issued by him, her, or them in the same manner and to the same extent
as the district Courts of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)
§ 35.32 WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of the municipality shall be
styled “The Town of South Coffeyville vs. [naming defendant or defendants].”
Except as provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of
a written complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint,
and setting forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the
Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)
§ 35.33 TRAFFIC ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES FOR ISSUING CITATION; CUSTODY;
ARREST.
   (A)   If a police officer observes facts which he, she, or they believes
constitute a violation of the traffic ordinances of the municipality, committed
by a resident thereof, in lieu of arresting such a person, he, she, or they may
take his, her, or their name, address, operator’s license number, and
registered license number of the motor vehicle involved and any other pertinent
and necessary information and may issue him, her, or them in writing in form
prescribed by the Mayor or his, her, or their duly designated delegate, a
traffic citation embracing the above information, and also stating the traffic
violation alleged to have occurred, and notifying him, her, or them to answer
to the charge against him, her, or them at a time, not later than the date
specified in the citation. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of
the alleged violator, endorsed on the citation to answer as specified, may then
release the person from custody. If the person to whom a citation is issued
fails to answer as prescribed in the citation, a complaint shall be filed and
the case shall be prosecuted as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   If the alleged traffic violation is committed by a nonresident or
resident of the municipality, the police officer may:
      (1)   Release the person after obtaining sufficient information as set
out in division (A) above pending his, her, or their appearance on a day
certain in Court, as specified in the citation after the person:
         (a)   Posts cash bail;
         (b)   Deposits with the arresting officer a guaranteed arrest bond
certificate; or
         (c)   Deposits with the arresting officer a valid license to operate
motor vehicle in exchange for a receipt therefor issued by the arresting
officer as provided in §
35.38.
      (2)   Take the person in custody and demand that bond for the offense
charged be posted according to the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   Take the person into custody under arrest. The arrested person
either shall be taken immediately before the Judge for further proceedings
according to law of shall have bail fixed for his, her, or their release in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Upon providing bail as fixed,
and upon giving his, her, or their written promise to appear upon a day
certain, as provided in division (A) above, the person shall be released from
custody.
   (C)   If the alleged offense be a violation of an ordinance restricting or
regulating the parking of vehicles, including any regulations issued under such
an ordinance, and the operator be not present, the police officer shall place
on the vehicle, at a place reasonably likely to come to the notice of the
operator, a citation conforming substantially to that prescribed in divisions
(A) or (B) above, with such variation as the circumstances require, the
operator of the vehicle shall be under the same obligation to respond to the
citation as if it had been issued to him, her, or them personally under
divisions (A) or (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-120)
§ 35.34 CREATION OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Traffic Violations Bureau for the town.
The Judge may establish rules, consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of the municipality, for the Traffic Violations Bureau.
   (B)   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall be staffed by Court personnel and
be physically separate and apart from the Police Department.
   (C)   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall accept fines which may be paid in
lieu of a Court appearance for such traffic offenses as may be designated by
the Judge under the Court’s rules. The schedule of fines shall be adopted by
the governing body from time to time by motion or resolution. A copy shall be
kept in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (D)   All such fines shall be the minimum penalty prescribed for such
violation, and no costs shall be assessed.
   (E)   In no event shall payment of a fine without Court appearance be
accepted in the traffic violations bureau for the following offenses:
      (1)   A second or subsequent offense of the same violation;
      (2)   Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs or
actual physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or drugs;
      (3)   Leaving the scene of an accident;
      (4)   Driving while license is suspended or revoked;
      (5)   Reckless driving;
      (6)   Careless driving; or
      (7)   Any charge made because of a motor vehicle accident in which
personal injury or death occurred.
   (F)   Payment of any fine to the Traffic Violations Bureau shall be deemed a
final determination of the cause against the defendant. In no event shall any
such payment be introduced as evidence in any civil cause arising out of the
offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 6-121)
§ 35.35 SUMMONS FOR ARREST.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance,
the Judge, unless he, she, or they determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or
unless the defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested
and has given bond for appearance, he, she, or they shall issue a summons,
naming the person charged, specifying his, her, or their address of place of
residence, if known, stating the offense with which he, she, or they is charged
and giving him, her, or them notice to answer the charge in the Court on a
certain day as specified after the summons is served upon him, and including
such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   (B)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he, she, or they fails to appear and to answer the summons
within the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his, her, or their
arrest, as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-122)
§ 35.36 FORM OF ARREST WARRANT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of the municipality,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the attorney of
the municipality or by the Judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest, in
substantially the following form:
 
   The Town of South Coffeyville to the Marshal of the Municipal Court of South
Coffeyville, Oklahoma.
   Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been committed
and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor forthwith to
arrest the above named defendant and bring the above named (name of defendant)
before me, at the Municipal Courtroom.
   Witness my hand this ___ day of ________, 20__.
   Judge of the Municipal Court South Coffeyville, Oklahoma.
 
   (B)   It is the duty of the Marshal, personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the police force of the municipality, or through any
other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 6-123)
§ 35.37 PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND.
   (A)   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation
or summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his, her, or
their appearance in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the
Judge, who shall prescribe appropriate rules of Court for the receipt of bail.
   (B)   In case of arrests made at night or under other conditions or
emergency or when the Judge is not available, the rules shall authorize the
Chief of Police, or his, her, or their designated representative, to accept a
temporary cash bond of not less than $10 nor more than the maximum monetary
penalty provided by ordinance for the offense charged.
(Prior Code, § 6-124)
§ 35.38 DEPOSIT OF DRIVER’S LICENSE AS BAIL FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the other methods for providing or posting of
bail authorized in this chapter upon arrest for traffic violations, the
defendant may deposit with the police officer a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle in exchange for a receipt therefor issued by the police officer.
      (2)   The receipt issued by the police officer shall be recognized as an
operator’s license and shall authorize the operation of a motor vehicle until
the time and date of the hearing indicated on the receipt or traffic citation,
but not to exceed 20 days.
      (3)   The operator’s license and traffic citation shall be delivered by
the police officer to the Clerk of the Municipal Court.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who applies for a duplicate license to operate a
motor vehicle while his, her, or their license is deposited in accordance with
division (A) above shall be fined up to $100 and Court costs.
      (2)   Each such application shall constitute a separate violation.
      (3)   In order for the fine to be applicable to a violator applying for a
duplicate license notice of the provisions of this division (B) shall be
included in receipt issued pursuant to this section.
      (4)   The receipt for deposit of the driver’s license shall contain
essentially the following notice:
 
NOTICE
   This receipt for deposit of a valid license to operate a motor vehicle
constitutes a temporary operator’s license until your hearing date on
_____________, but in no case shall this temporary license remain in effect
more than 20 days. Keep this receipt in your possession at all times while
operating a motor vehicle.
   Application for a duplicate license to operate a motor vehicle while your
license is deposited as bail is a crime punishable by a fine of up to $100 and
Court costs. Each such application constitutes a separate offense.
 
(Prior Code, § 6-125)
§ 35.39 ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT.
   Upon making his, her, or their appearance before the Court, the defendant
shall be arraigned. The Judge, or the attorney of the municipality, shall read
the complaint to the defendant, inform him, her, or them of his, her, or their
legal rights, including the right of trial by jury, if available, and of the
consequences of conviction, and ask him, her, or them whether he, she, or they
pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the Court may
proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the
Court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Prior Code, § 6-126)
§ 35.40 TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may
obtain a reasonable postponement thereof.
   (B)   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
   (C)   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or by the
statutes relating to Municipal Criminal Courts, or by rules duly promulgated by
the Supreme Court of the state, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the District Courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
   (D)   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the trial, the
Court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
   (E)   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
Judge who shall cause it to be entered in his, her, or their docket.
   (F)   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he, she, or they must be discharged at once.
   (G)   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he, she,
or they be imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day
imprisonment for each $25 of fine. If the defendant is without means to pay the
fine or costs, the municipal Judge may direct the total amount due to be
entered upon the Court minutes and to be certified to the District Court of the
county wherein the status of government is situated where it shall be entered
upon the District Court judgment docket and shall have the full force and
effect of a District Court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be
available for the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other
judgment creditor.
(Prior Code, § 6-127)
§ 35.41 WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Witnesses in any proceeding in the Court other than the police
officers or peace officers shall be entitled to a sum per each day of
attendance, plus mileage for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in
going to and returning from the place of attendance if their residence is
outside the limits of the municipality. However, no witness shall receive fees
or mileage in more than one case for the same period of time or the same
travel.
   (B)   A defendant seeking to subpoena witnesses must deposit with the Clerk
a sum sufficient to cover fees and mileage for one day of attendance for each
witness to be summoned, but such deposit shall not be required from an indigent
defendant who files an affidavit setting out:
      (1)   The names of no more than three witnesses;
      (2)   That the defendant, by reason of his, her, or their poverty, is
unable to provide the fees and mileage allowed by law;
      (3)   That the testimony of the witnesses is material; and
      (4)   That attendance at the trial is necessary for his, her, or their
proper defense.
   (C)   The fees of such witnesses shall be paid by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-128)
§ 35.42 SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   After conviction and sentence, the Judge may suspend sentence, in accordance
with the provisions of, and subject to the conditions and procedures imposed by
11 O.S. §§ 27-123 and 27-124.
(Prior Code, § 6-129)
§ 35.43 IMPRISONMENT; WORK BY PRISONERS.
   (A)   If, after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy
thereof, certified by the Clerk-Treasurer, shall be delivered to the Chief of
Police, the sheriff of the county or other appropriate police officer. Such
copy shall be sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   (B)   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may
be compelled, if his, her, or their health permits, to work on the public
streets, avenues, alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or
property. For each day of such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving
two days of imprisonment under his, her, or their sentence.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of the governing body,
shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the Department in
charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself, herself, or
themself or by some person designated by him, her, or them, shall oversee the
work. If a guard is necessary, the Chief of Police shall make provision
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6-130)
§ 35.44 FINES AND COSTS.
   If judgment of convection is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax the
costs of $30 to the defendant, plus fees and mileage of witnesses and jurors,
but the total amount of the fine may not exceed the amount set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-131)
§ 35.45 DEDUCTION FROM FINES FOR TRAINING FUND.
   Beginning October 1, 1983, for every fine of $10 or more collected by the
Municipal Court, $2 shall be set aside for the state’s Law Enforcement Officers
Training Fund. The Town Treasurer beginning January 1, 1984, and every quarter
thereafter, shall deposit the monies set aside from the previous quarter
pursuant to the first sentence of this section into the state’s Law Enforcement
Officers Training Fund.
(Prior Code, § 6-132)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 20 O.S. § 1313.1
CHAPTER 36: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Tobacco Products at Town Facilities
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Prohibited acts
   
36.03   Enforcement
 
   
36.99   Penalty
TOBACCO PRODUCTS AT TOWN FACILITIES
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Any electronic and/or battery-operated device,
the use of which may resemble smoking that can be used to deliver an inhaled
dose of nicotine, or other substances. ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE includes any
such device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an
electronic cigarette, and electronic hookah, or any other product name of
descriptor.
   SIGNS. The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by this
subchapter shall post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at each point
of entry to the area, and in at least one other conspicuous point within the
area.
      (1)   For restrictions the use of tobacco products or vapor products in
outdoor areas, the SIGN or decal shall be at least four inches by two inches in
size and shall clearly state that use is prohibited or that a tobacco-free
environment is provided. For restrictions on the use of tobacco products or
vapor products in outdoor areas, SIGNS shall be weather-resistant, at least 15
inches by 15 inches in size, with lettering of at least one inch, and shall
clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that a tobacco-free
environment is provided.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the town’s Mayor or his, her, or
their designee shall be responsible for the posting of SIGNS on municipal
property, both indoor and outdoor.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provision, the presence or absence of SIGNS
shall not be a charge of the use of tobacco products or vapor products in
violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   SMOKING. The carrying by a person of lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, hookah tobacco, snuff, chewing
tobacco, dipping tobacco, snuff, bidis, or any other preparation of tobacco;
and any product or formulation of matter containing biologically active amounts
of nicotine that is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, or otherwise
distributed with the exception that the product or matter will be introduced
into the human body. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include and cessation product
specifically approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for use in
treating nicotine or tobacco dependence.
   TOWN PROPERTY/FACILITIES. Any area that is owned, operated, controlled or
used by the town, the town’s Public Works Authority, including but not limited
to; vehicles, equipment, buildings, facilities, machinery, and open areas.
   TOWN RECREATIONAL AREA. Any area that is owned, controlled or used by the
town and open to the general public for recreational purposes, regardless of
any fee or age requirement. The term RECREATIONAL AREA includes, but is not
limited to, parks, picnic areas, and playgrounds, sports fields, hiking trails,
and walking tracks.
(Prior Code, § 3-301) (Ord. 2017-7, passed 8-17-2017; Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-4-
2018)
§ 36.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   The use of lighted tobacco in any form including vapor products is a
public nuisance and dangerous to public health and is hereby prohibited when
such possession or use is in any town recreational facility owned or operated
by the town.
   (B)   Smoking or use of tobacco product or an electronic smoking device at
any town recreational areas owned or operated by the town is prohibited.
   (C)   Smoking or use of a tobacco product or an electronic smoking device at
any building(s) town property/building or portions thereof, owned or operated
by the town is prohibited.
   (D)   The Chief of Police of the town or one of his, her, or their duly
appointed agents are authorized to promulgate and enforce reasonable rules and
regulations not inconsistent with this section.
   (E)   All employees and patrons are requested to honor the nonsmoking areas
designated and to respect the preference of others.
(Prior Code, § 3-302) (Ord. 2017-7, passed 8-17-2017; Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-4-
2018) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Council shall implement the following in order to prevent smoking
in public places:
   (A)   Post signs at entrances to places where smoking is prohibited which
state that tobacco use is prohibited or that the indoor environment is free of
tobacco smoke; and
   (B)   Town personnel shall ask tobacco users to refrain from using any form
of tobacco products, including electronic smoking devices, upon observation of
anyone violating the provisions of this act.
(Prior Code, § 3-303) (Ord. 2017-7, passed 8-17-2017; Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-4-
2018)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
36.01 through
36.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be punished
as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-303) (Ord. 2017-7, passed 8-17-2017; Ord. 2018-05, passed 9-4-
2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES, GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   ELECTRIC
      
54.   PRIVATE POWER GENERATORS
      
55.   REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES, GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Application for utility service
   
50.02   Separate service
   
50.03   Bills when payable; delinquency; disconnection of service
   
50.04   Rights reserved to interrupt service
   
50.05   Damaging equipment
   
50.06   Interference with mains, fire hydrants
   
50.07   Tampering with meters unlawful
   
50.08   Procedure for governing board to set utility rates and charges
   
50.09   Utility fees and billings in general
Industrial Rate
   
50.20   Rate schedule industrial
   
50.21   Availability
   
50.22   Character of service
   
50.23   Monthly rates
   
50.24   Minimum bill
   
50.25   Reactive power adjustment
   
50.26   Metering adjustment
   
50.27   Determination of demand
   
50.28   Metering option
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICE.
   Every person, firm, or corporation desiring to have his, her, or their
premises connected with any of the town’s utilities, water, sewer, electric, or
trash collection, shall make application and sign a contract therefor upon a
printed form to be furnished for that purpose, and shall pay the regular fees
and deposits for installation of the service.
(Prior Code, § 17-101)
§ 50.02 SEPARATE SERVICE.
   Every separate premises supplied must have its own separate service
connection with the mains or lines, and the premises so supplied shall not be
allowed to supply water, sewer, or electricity to any other premises.
(Prior Code, § 17-102)
§ 50.03 BILLS WHEN PAYABLE; DELINQUENCY; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Upon failure of any customer to pay any part of a utility bill for any
utility services by the due date on the bill, the following actions and
penalties may result.
      (1)   A 10% penalty of all amount owing on a utility bill is added to any
utility bill which is not paid by the fifteenth of the month, if the fifteenth
falls on a town’s holiday or a weekend the next day will not be considered
delinquent.
      (2)   If the bill remains unpaid as of ten days after the due date on the
bill, then the following actions may result.
         (a)   The authorized agents of the town may disconnect or discontinue
any or all utility services to the customer after mailing written notice to the
customer of the intent of the town to disconnect or discontinue any or all of
the utility services.
         (b)   The authorized agents of the town, upon direction of the town’s
Board of Trustees, may discontinue to furnish water or electric to any customer
refusing or neglecting to pay all or any part of a utility bill submitted after
mailing written notice to the customer of the intent of the town to disconnect
the water or electricity service.
      (3)   If any utility service is discontinued or disconnected pursuant to
this section, the town, or its agents, shall not reconnect or reestablish the
service until the full amount of any outstanding utility service bill is paid,
plus the penalty provided in this section, plus any applicable charges or
expenses in reconnecting or reestablishing the service.
   (B)   If town personnel goes to the premises to shut off the service and the
occupant pays the town personnel prior to his, her, or their shutting off the
service, there shall be added to the bill a sum for the trip made by the town
personnel to shut off such services. All bills, penalties and fees collected as
herein above specified shall be paid over to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Nothing
herein shall be construed as preventing the town from instituting suit for the
recovery of any delinquent accounts.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may not accept payment of a water or electric
bill without payment of the sewer service charge, nor shall the Clerk-Treasurer
accept payment of a sewer bill without payment of the water or electric bill.
The failure to pay any utility bill in accordance with divisions (A) and (B)
above shall be grounds for discontinuing any or all of the utility services
furnished to the customer whose bill is delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 17-103) (Ord. passed 5-17-1993)
§ 50.04 RIGHTS RESERVED TO INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The town reserves the right to shut off the supply of water or electricity
without notice, for repairs, extensions, or for any other necessary reason, and
no liability shall attach therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 17-104)
§ 50.05 DAMAGING EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to damage, destroy, or harm any
electric or water pipe, hydrant, faucet, pole, including sewer, electrical,
water or other equipment or property erected, placed or installed by or
belonging to the town. In addition to other provisions herein, the offender
shall reimburse the town for the actual cost of the replacement, repairs,
parts, materials, and labor to repair, replace or restore the property or
equipment.
(Prior Code, § 17-105) (Ord. passed 2-4-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 INTERFERENCE WITH MAINS, FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to disturb, interfere with,
open, operate, close, turn on, turn off, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
anything with any fire hydrant, or stop any valve or stopcock belonging to the
town. However, this section shall not apply to any member of the Fire
Department when in the lawful discharge of his, her, or their duties as such or
to any person endeavoring to prevent or put out any fire in any lawful manner.
(Prior Code, § 17-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 TAMPERING WITH METERS UNLAWFUL.
   The tampering with water meters or meter boxes of the town, or the placing
of any bypass connection on or around the meters, or the use of any other
device tending to interfere with the proper registration of same is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.08 PROCEDURE FOR GOVERNING BOARD TO SET UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the town shall establish future rates,
charges, deposits, and fees for utility services by motion or resolution, as
the case may be. A copy of the current rates and charges shall be available in
the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (B)   (1)   The following deposit rates were approved by motion at regular
Board meeting on October 18, 1993.
 
Service              Cost
Business electric    $160
Business water       $30
Residential water    $30
Residential electric $100
Three-phase electric $300
Total electric home  $160
 
      (2)   At the meeting of June 30, 1998, to the above rates was added a
renter’s rate on electric and water. This was done by motion. The rate is as
follows:
 
Renter’s electri$200
Renter’s water  $50
 
   (C)   Any person leaving town and not paying their utility bills will have
to pay the bill they owe and pay double meter deposits before they can have
their meters turned on should they ever wish to return to the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-108)
§ 50.09 UTILITY FEES AND BILLINGS IN GENERAL.
   All fees and charges in connection with any customer’s use of the town’s
sanitary sewer system, the town’s water facility system, the electricity
system, or the operation of the town’s collection and disposal of refuse and
electric are billed in accordance with applicable rates set as provided in §
50.08. All fees and charges owing for any of these utility services shall be
billed on one monthly bill submitted to the customer each month.
(Prior Code, § 17-109)
INDUSTRIAL RATE
§ 50.20 RATE SCHEDULE INDUSTRIAL.
   Non-demand primary service.
(Prior Code, § 17-601)
§ 50.21 AVAILABILITY.
   To all customers in the South Coffeyville Industrial Park with
nonresidential use.
(Prior Code, § 17-602)
§ 50.22 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   At such phase and voltage as the Department may have available for the
customer’s location and requirements for primary service.
(Prior Code, § 17-603)
§ 50.23 MONTHLY RATES.
   Non-demand primary service subject to a minimum bill, applicable fuel
adjustments, customer charge, and taxes.
 
KWH          Cost
0-50         $25
50-1,000     $0.085
1,001-10,000 $0.065
>10,000      $0.055
 
(Prior Code, § 17-604)
§ 50.24 MINIMUM BILL.
   Determined either by customer projected KW demand or measured KW demand at
discretion of the town.
   Minimum bill:
      Contract KW: 425
      Minimum bill $2,400
The minimum will be the greater of $2,400 (before fuel and taxes) or the
industrial non-demand primary service rate.
(Prior Code, § 17-605)
§ 50.25 REACTIVE POWER ADJUSTMENT.
   The Department, at its option, may measure the reactive power taken. Power
factor is subject to correction at customer expense.
(Prior Code, § 17-606)
§ 50.26 METERING ADJUSTMENT.
   When the Department installs a primary meter that does not compensate for
transformer losses, the customer’s total bill including fuel adjustment and
reactive power adjustment shall be decreased by 2%. No discount is allowed when
the Department furnishes more than one transformer bank.
(Prior Code, § 17-607)
§ 50.27 DETERMINATION OF DEMAND.
   Kilowatt demand will be determined by suitable demand instruments, or at the
Department option, by demand tests, and shall be the highest average kilowatt
demand measured in any 30-minute period during the month.
(Prior Code, § 17-608)
§ 50.28 METERING OPTION.
   At the Department’s option, suitable metering equipment may be installed on
the primary side of the transformer serving the customer.
(Prior Code, § 17-609)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Application to make connection to water mains
   
51.02   Connections to be made in accordance with ordinance and law
   
51.03   Water deposit required
   
51.04   Contract for water service
   
51.05   Estimate of bill
   
51.06   Customer responsible for damage to system, stop boxes to be kept in
good condition
   
51.07   Water shortages; declaration of emergency
   
51.08   Restriction on water use in emergency
   
51.09   Proclamation and notice of emergency
   
51.10   Grievances with water restrictions
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 APPLICATION TO MAKE CONNECTION TO WATER MAINS.
   Any person desiring to make a connection to a water main of the town is
required to file a written application with the Town Clerk-Treasurer to make
the connection.
(Prior Code, § 17-201)
§ 51.02 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ORDINANCE AND LAW.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who connects to the water mains of the town
in violation of this chapter or other ordinances of the town or the laws of the
state will be denied further water service until such ordinances and laws are
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 17-202) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 WATER DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Any person who desires to use water shall put up with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer as a meter deposit the amount which is established. The Board of
Trustees may establish classifications of customers, such as residences, mobile
homes, location inside or outside of town’s limits, and various types of
businesses, for different deposit requirements.
(Prior Code, § 17-203) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 CONTRACT FOR WATER SERVICE.
   The application for water service shall contain a contract on the part of
the person making the application:
   (A)   To pay for the water consumed at the rate prescribed by ordinance at
the time the water is consumed;
   (B)   To recognize the right of the town to change the rate by ordinance at
any time;
   (C)   To recognize the right of the town temporarily to discontinue water
service at any time without notice to the consumer, to install, repair, or
remove a water meter or for any other proper cause;
   (D)   Stating that the contract is subject to all the ordinances in effect
at the time of making the contract and which may be passed and go into effect
thereafter;
   (E)   Stating that the town shall not be responsible for any damage by water
or other cause resulting from defective plumbing or appliances, and that the
fact that an agent of the town has inspected plumbing or appliances shall not
be pleaded as a basis for recovery in case of damage to the premises from
defective plumbing or appliances installed by the owner or occupant of such
premises;
   (F)   Providing that the town shall not be liable for damages resulting from
the interruption or failure of the supply of water, regardless of the cause
thereof; and that such failure for any reasonable period of time shall not be
held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the town nor relieve the
consumer from performing the obligations of his, her, or their contract;
   (G)   Providing that all meters are the property of the town; and
   (H)   Providing that the water deposit, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, may be retained by the town and applied by the town on any unpaid
water bill of the consumer; and providing further that unless the water deposit
is claimed by the consumer within 12 months after the consumer ceases to use
the water or within 12 months after the water is turned off for any cause by
the town, then the consumer forfeits all right, title, or interest in and to
the water deposit.
(Prior Code, § 17-204) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 ESTIMATE OF BILL.
   In all cases where meters or meter boxes are lost, injured, or broken by
willful action or by carelessness or negligence of owners or occupants of
premises, they shall be replaced or repaired at the expense of the owner or
occupant. In case of nonpayment, the water shall be cut off and will not be
turned on until such charges are paid. In the event of a meter getting out of
order or failing to register properly, the consumer shall be charged on an
estimate made by the Water Superintendent of the average monthly consumption
during the last three months when the meter was in good condition or from what
he, she, or they may consider to be the most reliable data at his, her, or
their command.
(Prior Code, § 17-205) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBLE FOR DAMAGE TO SYSTEM, STOP BOXES TO BE KEPT IN
GOOD CONDITION.
   (A)   The customer is responsible for any damage to the water system
installed by the town for service. There shall be a stopcock placed in the
service line and located at every premises supplied with water.
   (B)   No stopcock shall be turned on or off by anyone except the authorized
agent of the Board of Trustees except when a pipe, hydrant, or fixture breaks,
leaks, or gets out of order, then it is the duty of the customer promptly to
turn off the water and notify the proper authority.
   (C)   Customers shall keep their own pipe and fixtures in good repair and
free from leaks at their own expense. No claim for damages shall be made
against the town on account of the breaking or leaking of any valve or service,
nor will any customer on account of any leak or water wasted after passing
through the meter, and no plumber, customer, firm, or corporation shall extend
lines from the property to another without special permission from the Board of
Trustees and no submetering shall be permitted except by consent of the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 17-206) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 WATER SHORTAGES; DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the Mayor is hereby authorized to restrict or prohibit
the use of water from the town’s water system.
   (B)   An emergency exists whenever the Mayor reasonably determines that the
town’s water system is unable or will within 60 days become unable to supply
the full commercial and domestic needs of the users thereof, including adequate
fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 17-207)
§ 51.08 RESTRICTION ON WATER USE IN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the Mayor shall
issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting out with particularity
an order restricting use of water from the town system. The order may:
      (1)   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and non-discriminatory scheme; and
      (2)   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety. The
order may be revised from time to time as the Mayor deems necessary.
   (B)   Proclamation shall be in force for 30 days or until such time as the
Mayor shall cause to be published a proclamation that the emergency has ended,
whichever is shorter, unless the Board by resolution approved by a majority of
all its members votes to terminate the emergency and proclamation upon a
different date.
(Prior Code, § 17-208)
§ 51.09 PROCLAMATION AND NOTICE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The proclamation required by §
51.08 shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the town or,
if there is no such newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within
24 hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy of
the proclamation in ten prominent places in the town. The emergency shall be in
full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with this
section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the
availability of water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to
public health or safety the notice of the proclamation may be given by any
reasonable means, including electronic means.
      (2)   The emergency shall be in full force and effect upon such notice.
However, if any means other than that required in division (A) above is used,
the proclamation shall be republished in accordance with division (A) above
within 24 hours of the first notice.
(Prior Code, § 17-209)
§ 51.10 GRIEVANCES WITH WATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the Mayor shall have
the right to present the matter to the next regular or special meeting of the
town’s Board of Trustees or to any emergency session called to discuss the
water emergency.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may exempt such aggrieved person, wholly or in
part, from compliance with the proclamation order upon a showing that
compliance creates an immediate threat to the person’s health or safety.
   (C)   The ruling of the Board of Trustees by a majority vote of all its
members shall be final and binding as to the continuance of any terms of the
proclamation.
   (D)   Until and unless the action of the Mayor is modified or revoked by
action of the Board of Trustees, all water users shall be bound by the
proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 17-210)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who, in any manner, directly or indirectly, violates or permits
others under his, her, or their supervision, custody, or control to violate any
term of a duly published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any
violation of the provisions of the Mayor’s proclamation or action of the Board
shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 17-211)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
   
52.01   Conformance to rules and regulations
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Persons to comply with code
   
52.04   Changes to be made for permit
   
52.05   Compliance with ordinances and laws
   
52.06   Sewer service charge levied
   
52.07   Procedures; required connection to sewer
   
52.08   Prohibited discharges
   
52.09   Toxic pollutants charge
   
52.10   Interceptions and separators where required
   
52.11   Sewer taps and connections; fees; utility deposits
   
52.12   Sewer rates
Editor’s note:
   Sections
52.01 through
52.11 became effective 12-2-1996.
§ 52.01 CONFORMANCE TO RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All connections to the sewers of the town shall conform to the rules and
regulations prescribed by the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-301)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as amended).
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The introductions of pollutants into a POTW from any
non-domestic source.
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
sewer service connections) from sources such as, but not limited to roof
leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area drains, drains from springs and
swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections between storm sewers, catch
basins, cooling towers, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or
drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. An inhibition or disruption of the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal which is a
cause of or significantly contributes to either a violation of any requirement
of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation) or to the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the
POTW in accordance with the following statutory provisions and regulations for
permits issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405
of the Clean Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including Title
II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA), and including state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA, the Clean Air Act,
and the Toxic Substances Control Act. An industrial user significantly
contributes to such a permit violation or prevention of sludge use or disposal
in accordance with the above-cited authorities whenever such user:
      (1)   Discharges a daily pollutant loading in excess of that allowed by
contract with POTW or by federal, state, or local law;
      (2)   Discharges wastewater which substantially differs in nature or
constituents from the user’s average discharge; or
      (3)   Knows or has reason to know that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would result in a POTW permit
violation or prevent sewage sludge use or disposal in accordance with the
above-cited authorities as they apply to the POTW’s selected method of sludge
management.
   PASS THROUGH. The discharge of pollutants through the POTW into navigable
waters in quantities or concentrations which are a cause of or significantly
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s duration of a
violation. An industrial user significantly contributes to such a permit
violation where it:
      (1)   Discharges a daily pollutant loading in excess of that allowed by
contract with POTW or by federal, state, or local law;
      (2)   Discharges wastewater which substantially differs in nature or
constituents from the user’s average discharge;
      (3)   Knows or has reason to know that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would result in a permit
violation; and
      (4)   Knows or has reason to know that the POTW is, for any reason,
violating its final effluent limitations in its permit and that such industrial
user’s discharge, either alone or in conjunction with discharges from other
sources, increases the magnitude or duration of the POTW’s violations.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works as defined by §
2121 of the Act, which is owned by a state or municipality, as defined in § 502
(4) of the Act. The definition includes any devices and systems used in the
storage, treatment recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial
wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes, and other
conveyances only if they convey wastewater to POTW Treatment Plant. The term
also means the municipality as defined in § 502(4) of the Act, which has
jurisdiction over the indirect discharges from such treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 17-302)
§ 52.03 PERSONS TO COMPLY WITH CODE.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall hereafter make any connection on
any public sewer or any connection on any private sewer which in turn is
connected with a public sewer, without complying with the town’s Plumbing Code
and the rules and regulations herein set out. No person, firm, or corporation
shall connect more than one building to a single lateral leading to the public
sewer system of the town.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the B.O.C.A. National Building Code (latest
edition) and the applicable rules and regulations of the town.
   (C)   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed with
the requirements of the state’s Department of Environmental Quality Regulation.
(Prior Code, § 17-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 CHANGES TO BE MADE FOR PERMIT.
   A charge prescribed by §
52.06 for each connection made on the sanitary sewer system of the town is
levied for the right of the person, firm, or corporation to make the connection
to the sanitary sewer system of the town. It is the duty of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer to make this collection for issuing a permit to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 17-304)
§ 52.05 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES AND LAWS.
   (A)   Any person who connects to the sewers of the town in violation of this
chapter or any other ordinance of the town or of the laws of the state will be
denied further sewer service until such ordinances and laws are complied with.
   (B)   It is the duty of the Plumbing Inspector or other person designated by
the town Board of Trustees to disconnect any sewers which have not been
constructed in accordance with the town’s Plumbing Code or connected in
compliance with the ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 17-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE LEVIED.
   For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the sanitary
sewage system of the town and for other purposes, there is hereby fixed and
established charges for the use of the sanitary sewer system to be levied
against each respective user thereof with the town in such amounts and
according to such classifications of users as the Board by resolution or motion
may determine. A copy of the current charges in effect shall be kept on file in
the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 17-306)
§ 52.07 PROCEDURES; REQUIRED CONNECTION TO SEWER.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings, or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a sanitary sewer line of the town, is hereby
required to install suitable toilet and sewage disposal facilities directly
with the public sanitary sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within 30 days after official notice to do so.
   (B)   During the construction of any sewer line by the town, the property
abutting such line may be connected with the line at no cost to the owner of
the property. After the completion of the construction of the sanitary sewer
line by the town, a charge will be made for each connection.
   (C)   At such time as a public sanitary sewer line becomes available to a
property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall
be made to the public sanitary sewer system in compliance with this section,
and any septic tank, cess pool and any similar private sewage disposal facility
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable materials. No septic tank or cess
pool shall be permitted to discharge into the public sanitary sewer system.
   (D)   When sanitary sewer facilities become available, the failure to
connect any dwelling, public building, commercial, or industrial building with
such facilities within 30 days, shall result in the disconnection of any such
building from the town’s water lines by the town’s Water Department and the
owner of any such building shall become subject to a fine of the same amount
per month as such building would be charged if it were connected to the sewer
system. The fine shall continue each month until such connection is made. A
charge shall be made for reconnection of water service to any such building.
   (E)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sanitary sewer line or
appurtenance thereof and before commencement of the construction of any
dwelling, public building, commercial, or industrial building shall obtain a
written permit signed by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town. The application for
such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the town, and the connection
shall be inspected by a person designated by the Board of Trustees of the town.
   (F)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
any building with the public sanitary sewer system shall be borne by the owner.
The owner of any such building shall indemnify the town for any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or connection
of such building with the public sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 17-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   General prohibition. Pollutants introduced into POTW’s by a non-
domestic source shall not pass through the POTW or interfere with the operation
or performance of the works. These general prohibitions and the specific
prohibitions in division (B) below apply to all nondomestic sources introducing
pollutants into a POTW whether or not the source is subject to other Natural
Pretreatment Standards or any national, state, or local pretreatment.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. Wastewater discharged into the sewer collection
system and POTW shall not contain toxins or other pollutants in an amount or
concentration that endangers public safety and physical integrity of the
collection system and POTW or cause violation of effluent or water quality
limitations. In addition, the following pollutants shall not be introduced into
a POTW:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW;
      (2)   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, but in no case discharges with pH lower than 6.5;
      (3)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction
to the flow in the POTW resulting in interferences;
      (4)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the POTW; and
      (5)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW Treatment Plan exceeds 40°C (104°F).
   (C)   All discharges shall be prohibited except those that meet the criteria
from “Domestic Wastewater.” BOD concentration shall not exceed 250 mg/l and the
total suspended solids concentration shall not exceed 250 mg/l.
   (D)   Any new connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the sewer system shall be prohibited.
   (E)   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste, which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   (F)   All discharges shall be prohibited except those that meet the criteria
for “Domestic Wastewater.” Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) concentration shall
not exceed 250 milligrams. Suspended Solids (SS) shall not exceed 250
milligrams. This amount of 250 milligrams is the maximum limit for average
domestic wastewater.
   (G)   All industrial discharges are prohibited. At the present time there
are no industrial users in the town. If an industrial user should desire to
locate in the town and make use of the sewage system, an Industrial Cost
Recovery System shall be initiated in accordance with EPA and state regulations
at that time to compensate for this use of the system.
(Prior Code, § 17-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 TOXIC POLLUTANTS CHARGE.
   Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the facilities used as the wastewater treatment works
shall pay for such increased costs.
(Prior Code, § 17-309)
§ 52.10 INTERCEPTIONS AND SEPARATORS WHERE REQUIRED.
   (A)   When required. Interceptors or separators shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Plumbing Official, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastes containing ingredients harmful to the building drainage
system, or sewage treatment plant or process.
   (B)   Size and type. The size and type and location of each interceptor or
separator shall be approved by the Plumbing Official.
   (C)   Type of waste. No waste other than those requiring treatment or
separation shall be discharged into any interceptor except as approved by the
Plumbing Official.
   (D)   Grease interceptors. A grease interceptor shall be installed in the
waste line from sinks, drains, or other fixtures in the following
establishments when, in the opinion of the Plumbing Official, a hazard exists:
Bars, restaurants, hotel kitchens, factory cafeterias, clubs, car washes, or
other uses where grease can be introduced into the drainage system in
quantities that can affect line stoppage or hinder sewage disposal.
   (E)   Oil separators. An oil separator shall be installed in the drainage
system section of the system where, in the opinion of the Plumbing Official, a
hazard exists or where oils or other flammables can be introduced or admitted
into the drainage system by accident or otherwise.
   (F)   Sand interceptors. Sand and similar interceptors for heavy solids
shall have a water seal of not less than two inches.
   (G)   Venting interceptors. Interceptors shall be so designed that they will
not become air bound if closed covers are used. Each interceptor shall be
properly vented.
   (H)   Accessibility of interceptors. Each interceptor shall be so installed
as to provide ready accessibility to the cover and means for servicing and
maintaining the interceptor in working and operating condition. The use of
ladders or the removal of bulky equipment in order to service interceptors
shall constitute a violation of accessibility.
(Prior Code, § 17-310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.11 SEWER TAPS AND CONNECTIONS; FEES; UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   The Authority shall approve any request for a water tap and connection, a
sewer tap on an existing line or a sewer tap on a new line and prior to
granting this approval, the customer shall have paid the connection or tap
charge as applicable. Additionally, a deposit shall serve as a guarantee for
the payment of charges for utility service and other amounts owed in connection
with the utility service. It shall be held in trust by the Authority. When a
customer’s utility service is disconnected, the deposit or any part of such
amount deposited which remains after all such charges and amounts due the
Authority have been satisfied, shall be returned to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 17-311)
§ 52.12 SEWER RATES.
   The monthly sewer rate shall be as follows:
First 1,000 gallons (base rate) $15.80
1.000 to 2,000 gallons          $2.00
2.001 to 3,000                  $2.10
3,001 to 4,000                  $2.20
4,001 to 5,000                  $2.30
5,001 to 6,000                  $2.40
6.001 to 7,000                  $2.50
All over 7,000 gallons          $2.75
 
(Res. 2008-05, passed 2-19-2008)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRIC
Section
   
53.01   Application to make connection to electric system
   
53.02   Connections to be made in accordance with ordinance and law
   
53.03   Electric deposit required
   
53.04   Contract for electric service
   
53.05   Estimate of bill
   
53.06   Customer responsible for damage to system; boxes to be kept in good
condition
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 APPLICATION TO MAKE CONNECTION TO ELECTRIC SYSTEM.
   Any person desiring to make a connection to an electric system of the town
is required to file a written application with the Town Clerk-Treasurer to make
the connection.
(Prior Code, § 17-401) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ORDINANCE AND LAW.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who connects to the electric system of the
town in violation of this chapter or other ordinances of the town or the laws
of the state will be denied further electric service until such ordinances and
laws are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 17-402) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 ELECTRIC DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Any person who desires to use electricity shall put up with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer as a meter deposit the amount which is established. The Board of
Trustees may establish classifications of customers, such as residences, mobile
homes, location inside or outside of town limits, and various types of
businesses, for different deposit requirements.
(Prior Code, § 17-403) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 CONTRACT FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   The application for electric service shall contain a contract on the part of
the person making the application:
   (A)   To pay for the electricity consumed at the rate prescribed by
ordinance at the time the electricity is consumed;
   (B)   To recognize the right of the town to change the rate by ordinance at
any time;
   (C)   To recognize the right of the town temporarily to discontinue electric
service at any time without notice to the consumer, to install, repair or
remove an electric meter or for any other proper cause;
   (D)   Stating that the contract is subject to all the ordinances in effect
at the time of making the contract and which may be passed and go into effect
thereafter;
   (E)   Stating that the town shall not be responsible for any damage by
electricity or other cause resulting from defective appliances, and that the
fact that an agent of the town has inspected appliances shall not be pleaded as
a basis for recovery in case of damage to the premises from defective plumbing
or appliances installed by the owner or occupant of such premises;
   (F)   Providing that the town shall not be liable for damages resulting from
the interruption or failure of the supply of electricity, regardless of the
cause thereof; and that such failure for any reasonable period of time shall
not be held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the town nor
relieve the consumer from performing the obligations of his, her, or their
contract;
   (G)   Providing that all meters are the property of the town; and
   (H)   Providing that the electric deposit, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, may be retained by the town and applied by the town on any unpaid
electric bill of the consumer; and providing further that unless the electric
deposit is claimed by the consumer within 12 months after the consumer ceases
to use the electricity or within 12 months after the electricity is turned off
for any cause by the town, then the consumer forfeits all right, title, or
interest in and to the electric deposit.
(Prior Code, § 17-404) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 ESTIMATE OF BILL.
   (A)   In all cases where meters or meter boxes are lost, injured, or broken
by willful action or by carelessness or negligence of owners or occupants of
premises, they shall be replaced or repaired at the expense of the owner or
occupant.
   (B)   In case of nonpayment, the electricity shall be cut off and will not
be turned on until such charges are paid.
   (C)   In the event of a meter getting out of order or failing to register
properly, the consumer shall be charged on an estimate made by the Electric
Superintendent of the average monthly consumption during the last three months
when the meter was in good condition or from what he, she, or they may consider
to be the most reliable data at his, her, or their command.
(Prior Code, § 17-405) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBLE FOR DAMAGE TO SYSTEM; BOXES TO BE KEPT IN GOOD
CONDITION.
   (A)   The customer is responsible for any damage to the electric system
installed by the town for service.
   (B)   There shall be a stopcock placed in the service line and located at
every premises supplied with electricity.
   (C)   No stopcock shall be turned on or off by anyone except the authorized
agent of the Board of Trustees, except in an emergency.
   (D)   It is the duty of the customer promptly to turn off the electricity
and notify the proper authority.
(Prior Code, § 17-406) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or permits
others under his, her, or their supervision, custody, or control to violate any
term of a duly published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any
violation of the provisions of the Mayor’s proclamation or action of the Board
shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 17-407)
CHAPTER 54: PRIVATE POWER GENERATORS
Section
   
54.01   Definition
   
54.02   Power-generation towers or structures height limitations
   
54.03   Written authorization for entry
   
54.04   Solar panels
   
54.05   Electrical generation guidelines
   
54.06   Requirements for interconnection
   
54.07   Specifications and system diagram
   
54.08   Billing
   
54.09   Permit and application requirements
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   POWER-GENERATION TOWER OR STRUCTURE. Any tower or structure constructed,
erected, or set up upon the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, the purpose of which is to generate and supply power,
through the assistance of a renewable energy resource, to be utilized by an
existing principal, residential, or nonresidential use of the property on which
it is situated. A POWER-GENERATION STRUCTURE shall be deemed to include all
structural and mechanical components thereof. Nothing herein shall be construed
or deemed to authorize the construction or use of any such tower or structure
in the absence of compliance with any applicable ordinances, building, or
electrical codes, tariffs, contract, utility regulations, or state or federal
requirements or statutes of any nature.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022)
§ 54.02 POWER-GENERATION TOWERS OR STRUCTURES HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Power generation towers or structures may not exceed the height limitation
of HI district in which located and in addition, shall be placed in such manner
that there shall be a distance from the base of the tower or structure to all
property lines greater than the height of the tower or structure as measured
from the base thereof to its highest point to include height added by any blade
in a vertical position if the power-generation tower or structure if wind-
actuated, so that should said tower topple over it shall come to rest wholly
within the confines of the property on which it is emplaced. All such towers
and structures may not be attached or affixed to any residential structures
(Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03 WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FOR ENTRY.
   The owner of the property upon which any power generating tower or structure
is proposed, shall provide to the town a written authorization giving the town,
its agents and employees, the right to enter the subject property whenever
deemed necessary by the town for the purpose of inspection of the structure,
its supports and components for structural stability and integrity; provided,
that any such right to enter shall not be deemed to relieve the owner of any of
his, her, or their duties under the law, nor shall it be deemed to impose upon
the town any obligations under the law not existing prior to the execution of
any such right to enter.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04 SOLAR PANELS.
   Solar panels may be placed on roofs of structures of owners using the
electric power generated pursuant to the permitting application schedule
provided by the town for net-metering and requirements on electrical lines and
relevant resolutions of the town and no solar panels shall be erected on empty
lots or on the front or side yards of any lot visible from the street (solar
farms).
(Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05 ELECTRICAL GENERATION GUIDELINES.
   (A)   NET METERING by definition is a single meter at the point of delivery
that measures the amount of power the customer uses in the forwarded direction
and the same meter measures any excess amount generated by the customer which
is not consumed by the customer in the reverse direction.
   (B)   The customer owned grid connected electric generation system sets
forth the requirements and conditions for interconnected non-utility owned
generation where such generation may be connected for a parallel operation with
the town’s electrical system.
   (C)   Generating systems will be permitted to interconnect to the town’s
electric distribution system at the service level voltage only after a
determination by the town that such interconnection will not interfere with the
operation of the distribution or transmission system and that such
interconnection ensures the safety of town’s employees and customers.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022)
§ 54.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR INTERCONNECTION.
   (A)   Customer has elected to operate, at its own expense, a customer-owned,
utility-interconnected generation facility. Systems shall be limited in size to
not more than five kWh per customer aggregated for a combined total of 53 kWh
at the service interconnection point. The generating system is intended to
offset either part of or all of the customer’s electrical requirements.
   (B)   Customer’s generation shall supply alternating current power, 60
Hertz, at a voltage and phase of the town’s established secondary or primary
distribution system
   (C)   If the customer’s generation system full output capacity is larger
than 10% of the substation, feeder, or distribution line tap minimum load at
the point of interconnection, additional studies and equipment may be required
to provide proper line protection and voltage regulation. The customer is
responsible for the cost of any studies and or upgrades required to allow safe
interconnection of the customer-owned generation.
   (D)   Standard town retail rates for meter installation may not apply for
net metering meters along with possible secondary meters as defined by the
town’s fee schedule, except as modified by this chapter or applicable state or
federal law.
   (E)   Any cost or expenses incurred by the town due to modifications made to
town’s existing electrical system as a result of the interconnection of
customer’s generating system shall be paid by the customer.
   (F)   Customer will be the owner of the renewable attributes of the
electricity that is generated, to include any and all credits, certificates,
benefits, environmental attributes, emission reductions, offsets, and
allowances, however entitled, attributable to the generation of electricity
from the customer-owned renewable generation and its displacement of
conventional energy generation. With the above considerations noted the town
will not buy back the unused metered electricity but a monthly credit would
apply.
   (G)   Town may require customer to interrupt or reduce deliveries, when
necessary, in order to construct, install, maintain, repair, replace, remove,
investigate, or inspect any of its equipment or part of its system.
   (H)   Customer shall comply with all the latest applicable National Electric
Code (N.E.C.) requirements (N.E.C. Articles 690 and 705), N.E.S.C.
requirements, state requirements, international building codes for roof
placements, and shall obtain electrical permits from the town’s Maintenance
Superintendent for the equipment installation. Installation shall comply with
local requirements.
   (I)   The meter and transformer or transformer pole serving the customer-
generator shall be labeled to indicate potential electric current back feed.
   (J)   Customer shall provide space for metering equipment and meter base as
per town’s requirements.
   (K)   Customer’s over-current device at the service panel shall be marked to
indicate the type of back feed power source.
   (L)   Customer assumes full responsibility for all maintenance of
generators, inverters, and associated equipment including protective equipment.
Customer shall keep records of maintenance activities and provide such records
to the town for inspection at all times.
   (M)   Customer’s generation control systems shall comply with N.E.C.
Articles 690 and 705 and applicable and current Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (I.E.E.E.) standard including Standard 1547
“Interconnection Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems” for
parallel operation with the town’s electric system. In particular.
      (1)   Power output control system shall automatically disconnect from the
town’s source upon loss of voltage and not reconnect until town’s voltage has
been restored for at least five minutes continuously;
      (2)   Power output control system shall automatically initiate a
disconnect from the town’s power source within six cycles (0.1 second) if the
customer’s voltage falls below 50% of nominal on any phase;
      (3)   Power output control system shall automatically initiate a
disconnect from the town’s power source within two seconds if the customer’s
voltage falls below 88% of nominal or rises above 120% of nominal on any phase.
   (N)   Customer shall provide a written description of how the protection
devices will achieve compliance with the requirements of this chapter as part
of the permit application.
   (O)   (1)   Customer shall furnish and install on customer’s side of meter,
a UL-approved safety disconnect switch which shall be capable of fully
disconnection the customer’s generating facility from the town’s electric
system.
      (2)   The disconnect switch shall be located adjacent to the town’s meter
(s) and shall be of the visible break type in a metal enclosure which can be
secured in the “off” position with a padlock. The disconnect switch shall be
accessible to town personnel at all times.
   (P)   For systems up to five kWh, the customer shall, at its own expense,
maintain in force general liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000
without any exclusion for liabilities related to the interconnection.
   (Q)   Additional metering: For purpose of gathering research data, the town
may, at its expense, install and operate additional metering and data-gathering
devices.
   (R)   Customer shall pay all cost incurred by the town to have a qualified
engineer study, inspect, and approve the customer’s plans and installation.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07 SPECIFICATIONS AND SYSTEM DIAGRAM.
   (A)   Customer shall supply specifications for the proposed generation
system.
   (B)   Customer shall supply a system diagram for use of the town in
determining the safety and functionality of grid-connected generator. This
diagram will be kept on file at Maintenance Superintendent’s office.
   (C)   Customer shall supply a certificate of completion from a qualified
professional engineer or licensed and permitted electrician evidencing the fact
that the generation system meets all the requirements.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08 BILLING.
   (A)   The Utility Billing Department will retain the maximum meter reading.
   (B)   At the end of the billing period:
      (1)   If the meter reading is higher than that on record, the new reading
is recorded and the usage is billed according to the customer’s rate;
      (2)   If at the end of the billing period, the customer’s meter reading
is less than the maximum reading, then the energy amount is “0” is only the
monthly “customer electric charge.” See the town’s fee schedule; and
      (3)   There may be an additional administrative billing charge to cover
the handling of negative meter readings. See the town’s fee schedule.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022)
§ 54.09 PERMIT AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No power generating tower, structure, solar panel, geothermal devices, or
other renewable resources shall be placed within the town or on the town’s
electric system without filling out the appropriate permits and/or applications
at the Town Hall permitting its erection and placement and full compliance with
this section and all other provisions contained in this municipal code. See,
fee schedule for permit fee for power generation.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall fail and refuse to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $500 maximum per §
10.99 of the town’s code of ordinances and/or incarceration in the county jail
for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed - -2022)
CHAPTER 55: REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Accumulations of garbage and refuse
   
55.03   Collection of garbage and rubbish, mandatory
   
55.04   Contract and disposal
   
55.05   Inspections
   
55.06   Fees
   
55.07   Duty to request garbage service
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAG. Must contain a minimum of one and one-half mil. plastic.
   CONTAINER. A 95-gallon poly-cart, provided by refuse collector.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, including
all meat, vegetable, and fruit refuse from any premises within the town’s
limits.
   PERSON. Any institution, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership, or other entity.
   PREMISES. Land, buildings, or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or
parts thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, including garbage and trash.
   TOWN HEALTH OFFICER. The person so designated to act by the town’s Board of
Trustees, at a compensation also set by the town’s Board of Trustees, if any.
   TRASH. Rubbish of all nature and character, including but not limited to tin
cans, bottles, papers, boxes, but excluding the following:
      (1)   Debris from construction or repair;
      (2)   Leaves, trees or any portion thereof, grass clippings, or any yard
waste;
      (3)   Industrial waste, chemicals, hazardous or combustible material;
      (4)   Burnt trash and/or ashes;
      (5)   Rocks;
      (6)   Carcasses of dead animals;
      (7)   White goods (appliances); and
      (8)   Any other material the town’s representatives determines likely to
cause damages to equipment or injury to persons collecting same.
(Prior Code, § 17-501)
§ 55.02 ACCUMULATIONS OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   (1)   It is the duty of every person, firm, or corporation owning,
managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises or any place where
garbage or rubbish accumulates, to have a portable container or containers for
refuse a provided poly-cart.
      (2)   The collection service is to provide and at all times maintain in
good order and repair, on any premises at least, one 95-gallon poly-cart
container for refuse, rodent-proof and fly-proof, with tight fitting lids.
      (3)   All containers shall be kept clean and free from the accumulation
of any substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would
attract flies, mosquitoes and any other insects.
   (B)   All trash from residences shall be placed in a bag and securely tied
and placed in the provided polycart and moved to the front of the dwelling for
collection. Trash from commercial businesses shall be placed in a provided
container from the collection service under contract with said service.
   (C)   All poly-carts shall be kept in a location for collection, as
designated by the town. All containers and grounds immediately around the same
shall be kept in a safe and sanitary condition at all times. All poly-carts
must be removed from the street side and placed back inside the property limits
at the dwelling within 24 hours of collection.
   (D)   There shall be no open burning on the premises, unless the operations
are carried out in an approved-type incinerator, or approval is obtained from
the town’s Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 17-502) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.03 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH, MANDATORY.
   (A)   The town or its authorized representative, shall collect from all
areas of the town all garbage and trash, and one large household item per week
on a regular schedule collection day; provided, that it is the duty of any
person in possession or control of any premises to place the provided container
or large household item, in a location easily accessible to the collector as
directed by the town’s Health Officer.
   (B)   The places having rubble and excessive accumulations of garbage and
rubbish may be excluded from the service, and such accumulations shall then be
removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having charge;
provided, that the owner, person having such accumulations in charge, or
collection agent shall secure permission from the town’s Health Officer for
removal and disposal of same.
   (C)   Carcasses of animals such as cows, horses, and mules, shall be removed
and disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having the same in charge
and by the method directed by the town’s Health Officer.
   (D)   Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken concrete, ashes, sand or
gravel, automobile frames, dead trees, and other bulky, heavy materials shall
be disposed of at the expense of the owner or person controlling same under the
direction of the town’s Health Officer.
   (E)   Manure from cow lots, horse stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts, and
other animals or fowl pens, and waste oils from garages or filling stations or
materials considered hazardous or dangerous, shall be removed and disposed of
at the expense of the person controlling same in the manner and by the method
directed by the town’s Health Officer.
   (F)   The placing of garbage or trash or any refuse material in any street
or alley within the town’s limits or the disposal of such refuse at any place
within the town’s limits, except at such place as may be directed by the town’s
Health Officer is prohibited.
   (G)   The meddling or tampering with refuse containers or in any way
pilfering, scattering contents, or junking in any alley or street within the
town’s limits without the consent of the owner is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 17-503) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.04 CONTRACT AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The town shall have authority to enter into contractual obligation
with those who wish to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse
disposal for compensation in the town. The town shall be limited to contracting
for such service to contract only with persons having proper equipment, meeting
state’s Department of Health requirements, and sufficient personnel to collect
and dispose of refuse in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and
provided further that the method of disposal contracted for must be in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person who does not do so under approval by the
town to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for
compensation in the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-504) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.05 INSPECTIONS.
   It is the duty of the town’s Health Officer, and he, she, or they is hereby
directed, to make all necessary inspections and investigations of any and all
premises to see that the terms of this chapter are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 17-505)
§ 55.06 FEES.
   There is charged, assessed, and collected from each residential and
commercial unit such amounts as set by the town’s Board of Trustees by motion
or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 17-506)
§ 55.07 DUTY TO REQUEST GARBAGE SERVICE.
   To assist in maintaining the general sanitation of the town it is the duty
of every person occupying or having control of the occupancy of any premises
located on a regularly established garbage route to notify the town’s Garbage
Department at the beginning of such occupancy and request, accept, and use the
garbage pickup and collection service; provided, however, that failure of any
owner, rental agent or occupant of such premises to make such request shall not
prevent nor in any way impair or impede the town from adding the address of
such premises to the proper garbage collection route records and providing such
service and otherwise enforcing by appropriate action the regulatory measures
herein prescribed and causing the fees or charges therefor to be paid.
(Prior Code, § 17-507) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 17-508)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
      
71.   VEHICLE OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
      
76.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Application of regulations
   
70.03   Adoption of state traffic code
   
70.04   Issuance of certificate required
Conditions and Prohibitions
   
70.15   Vehicle equipment generally
   
70.16   Size, weight of vehicles, vehicles more than 10,000 pounds
   
70.17   Securing loads
   
70.18   Inspection of vehicles by officers
   
70.19   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
70.20   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
70.21   Unlawful riding
   
70.22   Authorizing or permitting violations prohibited
   
70.23   Application to animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.24   Working on streets; exceptions
   
70.25   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.26   Approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.27   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
70.28   Crossing fire hose
   
70.29   Eluding police officer prohibited
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.40   Duty of police
   
70.41   Accidents; duty to stop; leaving scene of accidents
   
70.42   Issuance of citation tags
   
70.43   Failure to obey citation
   
70.44   Failure to comply with traffic citations attached to parked vehicle
   
70.45   Illegal cancellation of traffic citations
   
70.46   Disposition and records of traffic citations, warrants, and complaints
   
70.47   Court records; abstract to be sent to State Department of Public Safety
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. However,
for any words and phrases used in this section which are not defined in this
section, but are defined in the laws of the state regulating traffic, the
definition in the laws of the state shall be deemed to apply to the words and
phrases used in this traffic code.
   ALLEY. A public passageway or street which affords only secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property, and having no legal or official name
other than alley.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Any non-highway recreational vehicle, when used
for cross-country travel on trails or on any one of the following or a
combination thereof: water, snow, ice, marsh, swamp land, and natural terrain.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two or three tandem wheels any of which is more than 20 inches in
diameter.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of fire departments, police vehicles, and
ambulances.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately
at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this code placed or erected by authority of a public body
or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning, or
guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any officer of the town’s Police Department or any other
officer authorized by law to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or ROADWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a street
includes two or more separate roadways the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such ROADWAY separately but not to all such ROADWAYS collectively.
   SHOULDER. The portion of the roadway contiguous with the traveled way for
accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral support
of base and surface courses.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation from movement. When prohibited, STOP
or STOPPING means any halting even momentarily of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or
signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH STREET. Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this traffic code.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated by which traffic alternately is directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 15-101)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, state traffic laws, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
§ 70.02 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to every street, highway, alley,
roadway, sidewalk, driveway, park area, every other public way either within or
outside the corporate limits of the town, the use of which the town has
jurisdiction and authority to regulate, including but not limited to:
   (A)   Those dedicated to or acquired by the public for public use;
   (B)   Those upon land owned by the town;
   (C)   Those upon land owned by any other governmental unit, but the
regulation of the use of which has been given to the town; and
   (D)   Those upon private property, the regulation of the use of which has
been given to the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-102)
§ 70.03 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of the state’s Motor Vehicle Code, 47 O.S. §§ 1-1-1 et seq.,
and the Rules of the Road, 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, and are enforceable by the town within the
town limits as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 15-126)
Statutory reference:
   State Motor Vehicle Code, see 47 O.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.
   State rules of the road, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.
§ 70.04 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in the state and operating the
vehicle within the town’s boundaries, shall carry in such vehicle at all times
a current owner’s security verification form listing the vehicle, or an
equivalent form which has been used by the state’s Department of Public Safety
which shall be produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by
any law enforcement officer and, in case of a collision, the form shall be
shown upon request to any person affected by the collision.
   (B)   The following shall not be required to carry an owner’s or operator’s
security verification form or an equivalent form from the Department during
operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such form for
vehicle registration purposes:
      (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol, or logo of the business,
corporation, or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law according to records of the Department of Public
Safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy;
      (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, or the state’s Corporation Commission;
      (4)   Any licensed taxicab; and
      (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW. The law requiring liability insurance in
conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in the state as found in Art.
VI, Ch. 7, and 47 O.S. § 7-606.
      EQUIVALENCY OF LIMITS. Required under 47 O.S. § 7-204 as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond; or self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of
47 O.S. § 7-503, having the EQUIVALENCY OF LIMITS required under 47 O.S. § 7-
204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
      OWNER’S POLICY. An owner’s policy of liability insurance which:
         (a)   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate
reference all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
         (b)   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other
person, except as provided in this division (C), using an insured vehicle with
the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from the
liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership, maintenance,
operation, or use of such vehicle;
         (c)   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with
existing laws; and
         (d)   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 O.S. § 7-204.
      SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM. A form, approved by the State Board for
property and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by
the Compulsory Insurance Law of the state.
   (D)   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in the state, shall while
operating or using such vehicle within the town’s boundaries, carry either an
operator’s or an owner’s security verification form issued by a carrier,
providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an equivalent
form issued by the Department of Public Safety, reflecting liability coverage.
   (E)   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the Department upon request of any peace officer of the Department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the Court.
   (G)   Any person producing proof in Court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the Department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   (H)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture, or deferral of sentence, the Court
Clerk shall forward an abstract to the State Department of Public Safety within
ten days reflecting the action taken by the Court.
(Prior Code, § 15-127) Penalty, see §
70.99
CONDITIONS AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 70.15 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the town shall be equipped
as required by law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate a vehicle upon a street of the town which is not equipped
as required by law;
      (2)   Fail to use such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use
it in a manner prohibited by law; or
      (3)   Operate a vehicle which has equipment prohibited by law upon a
street in the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-103) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Equipment of vehicles, see 47 O.S. §§ 12-101 et seq.
§ 70.16 SIZE, WEIGHT OF VEHICLES, VEHICLES MORE THAN 10,000 POUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall drive on or convey through any street any vehicle the
width, height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by
state law, except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by
the Chief of Police.
   (B)   No vehicle weighing more than 10,000 pounds shall be operated upon any
street, alley, or other public way within the town except for those streets or
thoroughfares within the town that are so designated by sign posed on said
roadway.
      (1)   The vehicle is to be used to perform work within the area of the
public way and that no other reasonable access exists.
      (2)   The vehicle is to be used to deliver goods or merchandise to some
area served by the public way.
(Prior Code, § 15-104) (Ord. passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Size, weight, load of vehicles, see 47 O.S. §§ 14-101 et seq.
§ 70.17 SECURING LOADS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or alley unless the
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or salt may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or alley any vehicle with any
load unless the load, and any covering thereon, is securely fastened so as to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the streets or alleys.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded only with livestock,
poultry, or agricultural products except baled agricultural products, but any
such truck shall be constructed or loaded as to prevent the livestock or
poultry from escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES BY OFFICERS.
   Police officers have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon the
streets of the town at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it is
properly equipped, and whether its equipment is in proper adjustment or repair.
(Prior Code, § 15-106)
§ 70.19 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 15-107) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1105
§ 70.20 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 15-108) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 15-109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a vehicle owned by him,
her, or them, registered in his, her, or their name or under his, her, or their
control to be driven, parked, or stopped in violation of any provision of this
section.
   (B)   No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall cause, authorize
or knowingly permit such child or ward to violate any provision of this traffic
code.
(Prior Code, § 15-110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 APPLICATION TO ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle except
those provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 15-111) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-104
§ 70.24 WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Town employees or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the town, and utility company personnel, when installing, improving,
or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are hereby
authorized as necessary, subject to control by the Board of Trustees, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction. In exercising such authority, the employees, personnel or
contractors shall erect or cause to be erected proper control devices and
barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been closed to
traffic.
   (B)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
division (A) above and traffic-control devices or barricades have been erected,
it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through, under, over, or
around the traffic-control devices or barricades, or otherwise to enter the
closed area. The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to persons
while engaged in the construction, maintenance, and repair, or to persons
entering therein for the protection of lives or property. Persons having their
places of residence or places of business within the closed area may travel,
when possible to do so, through the area at their own risk.
   (C)   Whenever construction, repair, or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the employees, personnel, or
contractor concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected, traffic-control
devices to warn and guide the public; and every person using the street shall
obey all signs, signals, markings, flagmen, or other traffic-control devices
which are placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic through the
construction or maintenance area.
(Prior Code, § 15-112) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code shall not apply to a driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or when in
the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to
but not upon returning from a fire alarm.
   (B)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of the vehicle while in motion sounds audible signal
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the
vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle, except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a
police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from in
front of the vehicle.
   (C)   These provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his, her, or their reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 15-113) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-106
§ 70.26 APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of the state,
or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal
only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the
right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 15-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-405
§ 70.27 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet
or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 15-115) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1108(A)
§ 70.28 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 15-116) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1109
§ 70.29 ELUDING POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible
signal directing the operator to bring his, her, or their vehicle to a stop
shall willfully increase his, her, or their speed or extinguish his, her, or
their lights or in any other manner attempt to or actually elude such law
enforcement officer. A VISUAL OR AUDIBLE SIGNAL, for the purpose of this
section, means a red light and a siren from a law enforcement officer driving a
motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to be an official police, sheriff,
or highway patrol car.
(Prior Code, § 15-125) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.40 DUTY OF POLICE.
   The Police Department shall have the power to enforce the street traffic
regulations of the town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate with the officers of the town in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions. Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or
other emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic there or
in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 15-117)
§ 70.41 ACCIDENTS; DUTY TO STOP; LEAVING SCENE OF ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle or property shall
immediately stop his, her, or their vehicle at the scene of such accident, or
as close thereto as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident
until he, she, or they has given his, her, or their name, address, and the
registration of his, her, or their vehicle and shall upon request exhibit his,
her, or their driver’s license to the person injured or the driver or occupant
of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render to any
person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying
or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician, surgeon,
or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that this
treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person.
      (2)   Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than
is necessary.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or in which it is
apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of $300
shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident to a police officer or to
the Police Department.
      (2)   If a driver makes out a written report of the accident in the
office of the Police Department as soon as practicable after the accident,
which report is to be forwarded to the state’s Department of Public Safety in
accordance with state law, the driver shall be deemed to be in compliance with
this section.
   (C)   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 15-118)
Statutory reference:
   Accident reports, see 47 O.S. §§ 10-101 et seq.
§ 70.42 ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and at
least two duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this traffic code.
   (B)   Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   (C)   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him, her, or them into custody.
   (E)   The town’s Board of Trustees may require that the police officers use
citation tags furnished by the Finance Department and that such tags are
serially numbered, and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags.
(Prior Code, § 15-119)
§ 70.43 FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his, her, or their
written promise to appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic
citation regardless of the disposition of the charge for which citation was
originally issued.
(Prior Code, § 15-120) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.44 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATIONS ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking
under the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle within the period specified on the
citation, the Clerk of the Municipal Court may send to the owner of the motor
vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him, her,
or them of the violation and warning him, her, or them that in the event such
letter is disregarded for the specified period, a warrant of arrest may be
issued.
   (B)   On any occasion where two or more such traffic citations have been
affixed on the same motor vehicle and the traffic citations have been
disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued without sending the letter
provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-121) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.45 ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any
traffic citation in any manner other than is provided by this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-122) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS, WARRANTS, AND COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of the state or any traffic
law of the town shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of the citation
with his, her, or their immediate superior officer, who shall cause the
original to be delivered to the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the original citation in the Municipal Court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the Court or by other official
action by a Judge of the Court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by
the Municipal Court which are delivered to the Police Department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   (D)   No member of the Police Department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter, or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint,
or warrant, in a manner other than as required in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15-123)
§ 70.47 COURT RECORDS; ABSTRACT TO BE SENT TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY.
   (A)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall keep a record of every traffic
citation deposited with or presented to the Court and shall keep a record of
every official action by the Court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in
reference thereto, including but not limited to a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
   (B)   Within ten days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a person
upon a charge of violating any provision of this traffic code or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways the Municipal Judge or Clerk
of the Court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state’s Department of Public Safety a
certified abstract of the Court’s record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   (C)   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state’s
Department of Public Safety and shall include the name and address of the party
charged, the number of his, her, or their operator’s or chauffeur’s license,
the registration number of the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the
date of hearing, the plea, the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the
amount of the fine or forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 15-124) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violations of the provisions of this traffic code shall be
punishable by fine or imprisonment as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 15-601)
   (C)   Any vehicle found to be violating §
70.16 in any capacity is in violation of the municipal ordinances for the town
and is subject to a fine and costs as established by the Municipal Judge.
(Prior Code, § 15-104)
Editor’s note:
   Division (C) became effective 12-6-1993.
CHAPTER 71: VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Operation of vehicles, generally
   
71.02   Driver’s license required
   
71.03   Vehicle license required
   
71.04   Unlicensed vehicles
   
71.05   Jake braking prohibited
   
71.06   Starting a parked vehicle
   
71.07   Drive on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.08   Right-of-way, generally
   
71.09   Vehicle turning left
   
71.10   Reckless driving
   
71.11   Driving under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotics
   
71.12   Driving on sidewalk
   
71.13   Limitations on backing
   
71.14   Corner cutting
   
71.15   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
   
71.16   Inattentive driving
   
71.17   Texting while operating a motor vehicle
   
71.18   All-terrain vehicle
   
71.19   General rule for speed regulations
   
71.20   General maximum speed limit
Turning and Signals
   
71.35   Required position, method of turning at intersections
   
71.36   Turns and U-turns
   
71.37   Turning, stopping signals required
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 OPERATION OF VEHICLES, GENERALLY.
   Every person operating a vehicle in the town shall at all times operate the
vehicle in a prudent and careful manner and in compliance with the laws of the
town and state, having due regard for other vehicles, rights of pedestrians,
and property of others.
(Prior Code, § 15-201) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   State rules of the road, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-101 et seq.
§ 71.02 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A driver’s license as required by state law for operation of a vehicle
upon the state highways, to operate a motor vehicle with in the town is
required. Every licensee shall have his, her, or their driver license in his or
her immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
provide physical possession (not just displaying it) of their driver’s license
to peace officers upon demand.
   (B)   The conviction of any person, as prescribed in this section, when the
offense occurred during a period when the driving privileges of the person were
under suspension, revocation, cancellation, denial, or disqualification or the
person had not been granted driving privileges by the state or any other state,
shall result in the doubling of the appropriate fine, as provided in the 47
O.S. § 17-101(B) and (C), and the doubling of all Court costs and all fees
collected by the Court on behalf of any other entity, unless waived by the
Court.
(Prior Code, § 15-202) (Ord. 2017-8, passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Driver’s licenses, see 47 O.S. §§ 6-101 and 6-112 et seq.
§ 71.03 VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive, propel, move, or park on the streets of the town any
motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer unless the motor vehicle, trailer, or
semi-trailer is licensed as required by state law and the license is
conspicuously displayed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 15-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle not bearing a
current motor vehicle license tag or tags on any street or highway within the
town.
(Prior Code, § 15-204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 JAKE BRAKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any large truck to use or to operate
or cause to be used or operated within the town limits any mechanical exhaust
device, or motor brake, designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any
large truck which results in the excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise
from such a vehicle, or otherwise known as “Jake-braking.” However, it is an
affirmative defense to a violation of this chapter that motor braking was used
on an emergency basis to avoid damage to property, or personal injury.
(Prior Code, § 15-205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 15-206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 15-207) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-301
§ 71.08 RIGHT-OF-WAY, GENERALLY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street, provided that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state
or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
(Prior Code, § 15-208)
§ 71.09 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn left shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but the driver, having so yielded and having given a signal
when and as required by this section, may make such left turn, and the drivers
of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from such opposite direction
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 15-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-402
§ 71.10 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive recklessly in the town. Reckless
driving shall include any person who drives a motor vehicle in willful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property or at a heedless or
dangerous rate of speed.
(Prior Code, § 15-210) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-901
§ 71.11 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES OR NARCOTICS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating or non-intoxicating beverages to drive, operate, or be in actual
physical control of any motor vehicle within the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of or under the
influence of any narcotic, drug, barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana, or who is
under the influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him, her, or
them incapable of safely driving a motor vehicle to drive a motor vehicle
within the town. The fact that any person charged with a violation of this
section is or has been lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug,
barbiturate, amphetamine, marijuana, or other drug shall not constitute a
defense against any charge of violating this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 15-211) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-902
§ 71.12 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 15-212) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.13 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 15-213) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.14 CORNER CUTTING.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or upon any
parking facility except with the intent of availing himself, herself, or
themself of the services offered on the premises served by the service drive or
parking facility.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle through any service drive or across
any parking facility for the purpose of shortening his, her, or their travel
distance, avoiding a traffic-control device, avoiding using the streets for
travel, or turning a vehicle so as to proceed in opposite direction on the
street from which it entered the drive.
(Prior Code, § 15-214) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.15 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may
be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 15-215) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-704
§ 71.16 INATTENTIVE DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle in a careless,
unobservant, distracted, or preoccupied manner in the town. Inattentive driving
shall include any person who drives a motor vehicle in a distracted manner not
being aware of their surroundings, this is to include but not limited to cell
phone usage.
(Prior Code, § 15-216) Penalty, see §
70.99
Editor’s note:
   This section became effective 2-18-2003.
§ 71.17 TEXTING WHILE OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive while using a hand-held electronic
device to manually compose, send or read an electronic text message while the
vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 15-216A) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-901d
§ 71.18 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE.
   (A)   All-terrain vehicles shall not be operated on any town highways,
streets, alleys, or any town-owned property, unless the ATV is owned by the
town or an entity of the town, and is being operated for town business.
   (B)   At no time can a town-owned all-terrain vehicle be used for
recreational purpose inside the limits of the town. Operation can occur during
daylight hours only.
(Prior Code, § 15-217)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 1151.1
§ 71.19 GENERAL RULE FOR SPEED REGULATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be accelerated or turned so rapidly as to spin or slide the
wheels, “excessive acceleration.”
(Prior Code, § 15-220) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.20 GENERAL MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   No vehicle, unless otherwise specifically authorized by this chapter,
shall be driven at a speed greater than 25 mph upon any street within the town.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may determine that certain other speed
regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in
which event it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed
in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place giving notice
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-221) Penalty, see §
70.99
TURNING AND SIGNALS
§ 71.35 REQUIRED POSITION, METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the center line thereof and by passing to the right of such
center line where it enters the intersection and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the
right of the center line of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the
left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the
center of the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 15-250) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-601
§ 71.36 TURNS AND U-TURNS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn, and shall place
proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when
such turns are permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 15-251) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit turning at intersections, see 47 O.S. § 15-102(A)
§ 71.37 TURNING, STOPPING SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle to the right or left except upon giving
signal of intention, as provided in this section, in the event any other
traffic may be affected by such movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
except upon the giving of a signal of intention, as provided herein, to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to
give such signal.
(Prior Code, § 15-252) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-604
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Obstructing traffic or roadways
   
72.02   Park within indicated space
   
72.03   Proximity to curb, parallel parking
   
72.04   Angle parking designation
   
72.05   Obedience to angle parking rules
   
72.06   Parking prohibitions in specific areas
   
72.07   Parking prohibitions on certain streets, more than 24 hours
   
72.08   Designation of loading zones
   
72.09   Standing in loading zone
   
72.10   Prohibition against selling merchandise from parked vehicles
   
72.11   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
72.12   Handicapped parking, enforcement on public or private property
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR ROADWAYS.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 15-230) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARK WITHIN INDICATED SPACE.
   In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space.
(Prior Code, § 15-231) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PROXIMITY TO CURB, PARALLEL PARKING.
   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway shall be so stopped or parked
in the direction of lawful traffic movement with the curbside wheels of the
vehicle parallel to and within 18 inches of the curb or roadway edge.
(Prior Code, § 15-232) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 ANGLE PARKING DESIGNATION.
   The Board of Trustees may determine upon what streets angle parking is
permitted and shall direct the marking or signing of the streets. Angle parking
shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where passing traffic would
thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side of the street. ANGLE
PARKING, for the purpose of this section, shall mean parking at the curb at
approximately a 45-degree angle between the right side of the vehicle and the
curb.
(Prior Code, § 15-233) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1004(C)
§ 72.05 OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING RULES.
   (A)   On those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking,
no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings with the front of the
vehicle directed toward the curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in angle parking spaces
designated by markings upon the pavement unless the vehicle is positioned
within the confines of an individually marked space. The vehicle shall not be
of such length, or positioned in a manner, as to protrude into the street a
distance which would cause or require passing traffic to change lanes or drive
on the left side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 15-234) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING PROHIBITIONS IN SPECIFIC AREAS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street except as authorized otherwise in this section;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (f)   On any railroad tracks; or
         (g)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within ten feet of a crosswalk at an intersection; except in
marked parking spaces;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
   (B)   (1)   Any business, garage, or filling station duly licensed by the
state and/or town may reserve such portions along the curb in front of their
establishments as is necessary to be used by them or their customers in the
conduct of their business.
      (2)   Those desiring to avail themselves of the benefits of this division
(B) shall provide markers on the curb designating the space so reserved at his,
her, or their own expense.
(Prior Code, § 15-235) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1003
§ 72.07 PARKING PROHIBITIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS, MORE THAN 24 HOURS.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle at any time upon any of the designated streets, except
when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked, stored, stood, or otherwise left on any
street in the town for a period of time longer than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 15-236) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 DESIGNATION OF LOADING ZONES.
   The Board of Trustees may determine the location of passenger and freight
curb loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating
the same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 15-237) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 STANDING IN LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three minutes.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
   (C)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not
interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which
is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 15-238) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PROHIBITION AGAINST SELLING MERCHANDISE FROM PARKED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street in the town
and offer merchandise for sale therefrom. In addition to the penalty provided
in §
72.99, the sale of merchandise from parked vehicles on streets in the town is
declared to be dangerous to traffic and to the persons congregating around the
vehicle and constitutes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 15-239) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   (B)   The presumption in division (A) above shall apply only when the
procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed.
(Prior Code, § 15-240) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 HANDICAPPED PARKING, ENFORCEMENT ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person unless such
person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of 47 O.S. §
15-112, and such insignias are displayed as provided in 47 O.S. § 15-112 or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 15-241)
Statutory reference:
   Handicapped insignia, application, and display on vehicles, see 47 O.S. §
15-112
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
72.12 shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be
punishable by a fine as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 15-241)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES
Section
   
73.01   Obedience to devices
   
73.02   Necessity of signs
   
73.03   Interference with devices, or signs or signals
   
73.04   Presumption of legality
   
73.05   Ratification of existing devices
   
73.06   Traffic-control signal legend
   
73.07   Flashing signals
   
73.08   Driving within traffic lanes
   
73.09   One-way streets, alleys designation
   
73.10   Designation of through streets
   
73.11   Signs at through streets
   
73.12   Procedures at stop signs
   
73.13   Procedure at yield signs
   
73.14   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
§ 73.01 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-201(A)
§ 73.02 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   (A)   No provision of the chapter for which official traffic-control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and
place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-
control devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 15-302) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-201(B)
§ 73.03 INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES, OR SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-207
§ 73.04 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 15-304) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, devices, and markings placed or erected
prior to the adoption of this section and in use for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and declared to be
official traffic-control devices provided such traffic-control devices are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
(Prior Code, § 15-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend. These lights shall
indicate appropriate action and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as
provided by applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 15-306)
§ 73.07 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection; and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution. This section shall not
apply at railroad grade crossings.
(Prior Code, § 15-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-204
§ 73.08 DRIVING WITHIN TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within
a single lane, and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or where
such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such
allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use
a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 15-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-309
§ 73.09 ONE-WAY STREETS, ALLEYS DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the town designates any one-
way street or alley, the appropriate town personnel shall place and maintain
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Upon the streets and parts of streets and in the alleys designated as
one-way streets or alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 15-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-308, and 15-102(A)
§ 73.10 DESIGNATION OF THROUGH STREETS.
   The Board of Trustees, by motion or resolution, may designate any street or
part of a street a through street.
(Prior Code, § 15-310)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to designate through streets, see 47 O.S. 1971, § 15-108
§ 73.11 SIGNS AT THROUGH STREETS.
   Whenever a through street is designated by the Board of Trustees, the
appropriate town personnel shall be directed to place and maintain a stop sign,
or on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any intersection
a yield sign, on every street intersecting such through street unless traffic
at any such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control signals.
(Prior Code, § 15-311) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.12 PROCEDURES AT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   After having stopped at a stop sign, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from
another street or which is approaching so closely on the street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having so yielded may proceed
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 15-312) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-403(B) and 11-703(D)
§ 73.13 PROCEDURE AT YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop
at a clearly marked stop line, or if no stop line, then at the point nearest
the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway.
   (B)   The driver approaching a yield sign shall yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he, she, or they is
driving, and to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   The driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding,
provided, however, that if such driver is involved in a collision with a
pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle in the intersection after driving past a
yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his, her, or their failure to yield right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 15-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §§ 11-403(C) and 11-703(C)
§ 73.14 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he, she, or they can
do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when a clearly visible
electric or mechanical signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of
a railroad train.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed or fail to obey the directions of a law
enforcement officer at the crossing.
(Prior Code, § 15-314) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
74.01   Regulations applicable generally
   
74.02   Traffic laws and regulations apply
   
74.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
74.04   Riding on bicycles
   
74.05   Use right side of roadway
   
74.06   Riding abreast
   
74.07   Speed
   
74.08   Riding on sidewalks
   
74.09   Lights and reflectors
Golf Carts
   
74.20   Definition
   
74.21   Policy statement
   
74.22   Rules and regulations
   
74.23   Required equipment
   
74.24   Permits
   
74.25   Enforcement
BICYCLES
§ 74.01 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or fail to perform any act
required by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child or the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter are applicable to bicycles operated
upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 15-401) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1201
§ 74.02 TRAFFIC LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of the town applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to
those provisions of law and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 15-402) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1202
§ 74.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   (C)   Any person may walk bicycles, and shall then be subject to all laws
applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 15-403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 15-404) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1203
§ 74.05 USE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(Prior Code, § 15-405) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 RIDING ABREAST.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 15-406) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 15-407) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Bicycles may not be ridden upon any sidewalk with the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-408) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the frame which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the state’s Department of Public Safety, which shall be visible from all
distances from 300 feet to 500 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful upper beams of headlamps of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 15-409) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. § 11-1207(A)
GOLF CARTS
§ 74.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purpose of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 74.21 POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf
carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets and roads,
and the town in no way advocates or endorses the operation of golf carts on
streets or roadways. The town, by regulating such operation, is merely
addressing safety issues. This subchapter is not to be relied upon as a
determination that operation on streets is safe or advisable even if done in
accordance with this regulation.
   (B)   All persons operating golf carts must be observant and attentive to
the safety of themselves and others, including their passengers, other
motorists, bicyclists, and other pedestrians. All persons who operate or ride
golf carts on streets inside the corporate town limits of the town do so at
their own risk and peril. The town has no liability under any theory of
liability for permitting golf carts to be operated on the streets of the town.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.22 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Golf carts may only be operated on streets and alleys within the town in
accordance with the following rules and regulations:
   (A)   (1)   Any person who operates a golf cart in the town takes full
responsibility for all liability associated with operating such vehicles.
      (2)   Any and all golf carts operated upon the streets must be insured by
a currently effective liability insurance policy in the same minimum amount as
is required for motor vehicles which operate upon the street by the laws of the
state and their drivers shall further possess on their person, while operating
such golf cart proof of such liability insurance
   (B)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any street without having in
his, her, or their possession at all times, an unrevoked and unsuspended Class
D operator’s license as required by the laws of the state to operate motor
vehicles and further with such person being at least 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person shall operate, and no owner of any golf cart shall permit
another person to operate a golf cart upon any town street unless such operator
is in full compliance with this section.
   (D)   Golf carts may not operate at any time upon U.S. Highway 169 except
when making a perpendicular crossing of U.S. Highway 169 at approximately 90
degrees and then only by using 3rd Street.
   (E)   Golf carts operating upon the streets in locations may not be equipped
with enhanced muffler systems which when operated are unreasonably louder than
stock systems, and no person shall operate any golf cart that unreasonably
disturbs the peace and quiet of any person or neighborhood.
   (F)   Every person operating a golf cart upon the streets shall be granted
all rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a
motor vehicle by the laws of the state, including, in particular, the
provisions of 47 O.S. § 11-1116(C) and the traffic provisions of this code
applicable to the driver of a motor vehicle.
   (G)   Any person operating a golf cart upon the streets shall obey the
instructions of official traffic control signals, signs, and other traffic
control devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (H)   It shall be an offense for any person to operate a golf cart at any
location not specifically provided for hereinabove or in violation of any of
the provisions of this section.
   (I)   Golf carts operating upon the streets must be equipped with
headlights, running lights (front and rear), tail lights and brake lights of a
type, kind and nature equal to or better than such similar equipment required
on motorcycles authorized to travel on state highways, with such headlights and
running lights illuminated at all times the golf cart is being operated.
   (J)   Golf cart may not be operated on the sidewalk.
   (K)   Golf cart drivers must yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles
at all times.
   (L)   Any person who operates a golf cart on the streets of the town must
adhere to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use of
alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs, as well as other state traffic laws.
   (M)   The maximum occupancy of golf cart traveling on town streets shall be
equal to the amount of safety belts or passenger restraints in the golf cart,
if originally equipped.
   (N)   No child under the age of four shall be allowed to ride in a golf cart
at any time.
   (O)   Golf carts are only allowed to park in handicapped parking spaces if
the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicapped parking sticker.
   (P)   The operator of a golf cart shall obey all ordinances of the town and
all provisions of the state’s Motor Vehicle Code, as amended from time to time,
and which ordinances are incorporated herein as if set out in full.
   (Q)   Miscellaneous rules.
      (1)   No person operating a golf cart shall ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat affixed thereto.
      (2)   Every person operating a golf cart upon the streets shall ride as
near to the right-hand side of the street as practicable, and shall not pass
any vehicle being operated in the same direction of travel.
      (3)   Every person driving a golf cart upon any street shall ride only
one abreast.
      (4)   The operator of a golf cart shall yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians and vehicles approaching or traveling along any town street or
other authorized location.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.23 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   A golf cart operated on a town streets shall have the following equipment in
good working condition at all times, including:
   (A)   Brakes;
   (B)   Steering apparatus;
   (C)   Tires;
   (D)   Rearview mirror;
   (E)   Headlights that emit white light visible from at least 500 feet to the
front;
   (F)   Taillights that emit red light visible from at least 1,000 feet from
the rear;
   (G)   Brake lights on the rear must be visible for 500 feet; and
   (H)   All necessary safety requirements.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.24 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart upon the streets without obtaining
a permit from the town as provided in this section.
   (B)   The permit shall cover the assigned golf cart from January 1 to
December 31 of the year the decal was issued for.
   (C)   For permit and license fees, see the town’s fee schedule. Insurance
coverage shall be verified as effective when issuing or renewing a permit.
   (D)   After completion of the application, the applicant shall present the
golf cart to the Chief of Police, or his, her, or their designee, for an
inspection to determine whether the golf cart may be operated on the streets.
If the applicant and golf cart are qualified under the terms and conditions of
this section, a permit shall be issued to the applicant which must be kept on
the vehicle at all times. The Police Department shall issue a sticker as
visible proof of compliance, which shall be valid for the duration of the
ownership of the vehicle by the applicant. The permit should at all times be
displayed on the rear bumper or other location of the golf cart as designated
by the Police Chief or designee.
   (E)   Golf cart owners must complete the permit application form on file in
the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The completed forms will be maintained
by the town’s Police Department.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-1-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, the town may prosecute violators for any
act constituting a violation of this section. Any person who violates any
provision of this regulation and found guilty of an offense and shall be
punished by a fine of not less than noted in the town’s fee schedule under
fines, plus Court costs, fees, and state assessments, if applicable, unless a
different fine is otherwise specified elsewhere in this code.
   (B)   The permit for a golf cart issued pursuant to this section may be
suspended by the Chief of Police, or his, her, or their designee, if:
      (1)   There is any material misrepresentation made by the applicant on
the application;
      (2)   The required liability insurance is no longer in full force and
effect;
      (3)   There is evidence that the permit holder can no longer safely
operate the golf cart; or
      (4)   For any reason that such Police Chief reasonably believes is
appropriate to ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of the town.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, or his, her, or their designee, shall issue a
notice of suspension of a permit in writing and either hand deliver the notice
to the permit holder or send the notice by U.S. mail, with receipt of service,
to the permit holder at the address on the application.
   (D)   Repeat offenders may have the privileges granted by this section
revoked by the Police Chief. Appeals to the decision of the Chief of Police may
be appealed to the town Board of Trustees, if a written appeal is filed with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer within ten days of the date of the written notice
revoking the permit.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-1-2020)
CHAPTER 75: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Purpose and effect of impoundment provisions
   
75.02   Place of impoundment
   
75.03   Duration of impoundment
   
75.04   Police granted authority to impound vehicles
   
75.05   Disabled vehicles
   
75.06   Vehicles on bridge
   
75.07   Arrest and detention of driver of vehicle
   
75.08   Vehicle constitutes traffic hazard
   
75.09   Illegal trespass by vehicle
   
75.10   Vehicles parked overtime
   
75.11   Vehicles blocking fire exits or hydrants
   
75.12   Vehicles parked in intersection
   
75.13   Stolen vehicles; recovery by police
   
75.14   Vehicles with outstanding traffic citations
   
75.15   Inventory of impounded vehicles
§ 75.01 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS.
   The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety, and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall
be used generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention
and abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations,
protection of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from
obstructions placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for
safeguarding and protecting recovered stolen vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 15-501)
Statutory reference:
   Grounds for removal of vehicles on highway by state, see 47 O.S. Ch. 955
   Removal of abandoned vehicles on private property, see 47 O.S. Ch. 954A
§ 75.02 PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall
be removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the
town’s Board of Trustees, and to no other place.
(Prior Code, § 15-502)
§ 75.03 DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the
authority of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for
its release is received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau or
other proper police officer.
   (B)   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
   (C)   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until all
fines and costs due the town because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid.
   (D)   The rates and provisions of this section shall apply to determine the
maximum fees and charges for the storage of impounded vehicles in the town’s
impound yard. Maximum outdoor storage rates per each 24-hour period or portion
thereof shall be as follows: single vehicle: motorcycle, automobile, or light
truck up to 20 feet in length $15, single vehicle or combination of vehicles
over 20 feet in late but less than 30 feet in length $20, single vehicle or
combination of vehicles over 30 feet in length and up to eight feet in width,
$25 single vehicle or combination of vehicles over 30 feet in length and over
eight feet and went $35.
(Prior Code, § 15-503)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 47 O.S. §
953.2
§ 75.04 POLICE GRANTED AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-504)
§ 75.05 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   (B)   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 15-505)
§ 75.06 VEHICLES ON BRIDGE.
   An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct, or causeway or in any
tube or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or
hazard, may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-506)
§ 75.07 ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE.
   Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under
arrest and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which
leaves or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle
may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-507)
§ 75.08 VEHICLE CONSTITUTES TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic shall be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-508)
§ 75.09 ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE.
   (A)   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of § 15-718 of this
code may be impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and
filed as provided in this section.
   (B)   (1)   If a violation of the provisions of § 15-718 of this code
occurs, the owner or legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint
against the person parking the vehicle on the owner’s or legal occupant’s
property, or if the identity of the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then
the complaint may be filed against the registered owner of the vehicle.
      (2)   The complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the
complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of the property upon which the
vehicle is parked or standing.
   (C)   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of § 15-718
of this code have been violated, the Police Department shall cause the vehicle
to be impounded from the property and placed in storage.
(Prior Code, § 15-509)
§ 75.10 VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME.
   Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in
excess of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of § 15-704, regarding more than 24 hours, shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-510)
§ 75.11 VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS.
   Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device, or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-511)
§ 75.12 VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION.
   Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing.
(Prior Code, § 15-512)
§ 75.13 STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE.
   (A)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one hour, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in
the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place to impoundment
and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of
the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the Police Department.
   (B)   If the registered owner is identified, located, and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his,
her, or their own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period
of one hour from the time he, she, or they is actually notified of its
recovery, and if the owner is unable or unwilling to effect the removal within
the time specified the vehicle may be impounded.
(Prior Code, § 15-513)
§ 75.14 VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   Any vehicle for which two or more citations have been issued, for violation
of an ordinance, and have not been presented as required, may be impounded if
parked in violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-514)
§ 75.15 INVENTORY OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle impounded for any reason shall be inventoried by two or more
persons for the protection of the owner and his, her, or their property, the
protection of town law enforcement personnel, and the protection of the garage
or wrecker service moving or holding the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 15-515)
CHAPTER 76: RAILROADS
Section
   
76.01   Railroads to improve streets and alleys
   
76.02   Sidewalks to be constructed by railroads
   
76.03   Climbing on trains
   
76.04   Speed limit for trains
   
76.05   Railroad trains not to block streets
§ 76.01 RAILROADS TO IMPROVE STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks
running in a general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto,
the railway company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet on
either side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to
be, or has been, improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the
Board by motion or resolution may approve.
   (B)   In case any railway company shall occupy an alley with its track or
tracks, such company shall improve, gutter, drain, and grade such alley, and
shall surface or pave it with the same material which is to be, or has been,
used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material as the Board by
motion or resolution may approve.
   (C)   When the tracks of any railroad company cross any street that is being
or has been paved, the company shall pave as much of the street as is occupied
by its track or tracks and two feet on each side, using the same material as is
to be, or has been, used on the street, or such other satisfactory material as
the Board by motion or resolution may approve.
   (D)   When more than one track crosses a street within a distance of 100
feet, measuring from inside rail to inside rail, the railroad company shall
grade, gutter, drain, and curb the street area between its tracks, and surface
or pave it with the same material which the town is to use or has used, on the
street. Railroad companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in a
good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 16-101)
§ 76.02 SIDEWALKS TO BE CONSTRUCTED BY RAILROADS.
   Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights-of-way,
using the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the streets when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company shall
keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times.
(Prior Code, § 16-102)
§ 76.03 CLIMBING ON TRAINS.
   It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to, or in any manner
attach himself, herself, or themself to, any railway train, locomotive, or
railway car, while such is in motion within the town, unless such person is
acting in line of duty, or to board any train or railroad car, including a
passenger, freight, or other car, except with a proper ticket or the permission
of the person in charge of the train or car or in line of duty.
(Prior Code, § 16-103) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.04 SPEED LIMIT FOR TRAINS.
   It is unlawful to drive, pull, move, or operate a locomotive, train, or
other rolling stock of a railroad at a speed of more than 25 mph within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 16-104) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.05 RAILROAD TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREETS.
   It is unlawful for the directing officer or person in charge of any railroad
train or railroad car to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such
manner as to prevent the use of any street for the purposes of travel for a
period of time longer than five minutes.
(Prior Code, § 16-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   NUISANCES; SALVAGE/JUNK VEHICLES
      
93.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND DRIVEWAYS
      
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Keeping in annoying matter
   
90.03   Animals not to be at-large
   
90.04   Turning animals at-large
   
90.05   Swine not to be kept within town
   
90.06   Pasturing public areas illegal
   
90.07   Impoundment and sale of nuisance animals and animals running at-large
   
90.08   Registration and licensing of dogs
   
90.09   License tax and tag
   
90.10   Rabies vaccination
   
90.11   Cruelty to animals
   
90.12   Poisoning animals
   
90.13   Encouraging animals to fight
   
90.14   Dogs muzzled and cats confined
   
90.15   Vicious animals may be killed
   
90.16   Animal that bites to be reported and confined
   
90.17   Rabid animals
   
90.18   Kennels must be licensed
   
90.19   Buildings for animals
   
90.20   Town may enter into contract for operation of pound
   
90.21   Tethering dogs
   
90.22   Leash law
Permits
   
90.35   Definitions
   
90.36   Permits required
   
90.37   Permits
   
90.38   Classification of permits
   
90.39   Number of animals allowed
   
90.40   Permits for large/small animals
   
90.41   Standards
   
90.42   No permits for certain animals
   
90.43   Dogs exempt
   
90.44   Not to be nuisance
   
90.45   Animals for scientific study
   
90.46   Provisions cumulative
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Does not include people but means any other mammal or any reptile,
bird, or amphibian.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society, or a municipal
agency, or its authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for
animals held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
   AT-LARGE. Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under
the control of, or occupied by, the owner, and not under the control of the
owner, a member of his, her, or their immediate family over 12 years of age or
an agent of the owner, by leash or otherwise not to exceed 15 feet, whether on
the owner’s premises or not.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction,
riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibits,
kennel, or like establishment.
   GROOMING SHOP. A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked, or otherwise groomed.
   HUMANE OFFICER. Any person designated by the state, the municipality, or a
humane society as a law enforcement officer qualified to perform such duties
under this chapter or the laws of the state.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of either
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling
dogs or cats.
   LICENSING AUTHORITY. The Town Clerk-Treasurer or a veterinarian or
veterinary hospital designated by the town.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, or corporation owning, harboring, or keeping an
animal. The occupant of any premises on which a pet remains, or to which it
customarily returns, for a period of ten days or more, shall be deemed to be
harboring or keeping the pet.
   PET. Any animal kept for purposes other than utility or profit.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership, or corporation except for a licensed
kennel which as part of its business buys, sells, or boards animals.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passersby or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals;
      (3)   Is repeatedly at-large;
      (4)   Damages private or public property; or
      (5)   Whines or howls so as to repeatedly disturb the tranquility of the
neighborhood.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS. Areas of the town included within the residentially
used districts as fixed and established by the zoning code of the town.
   RESTRAINT or UNDER RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash not to exceed 15
feet, fenced or within the real property limits of its owner, or under the
control of or obedient to the control of a responsible person.
   RIDING SCHOOL or STABLE. Any place which has available for hire, boarding,
and/or riding instruction, any horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery or other diagnosis and treatment of injury or disease
of animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has bitten, clawed, or attempted to bite or
claw any person without undue provocation, or which threatens to bite or claw
any person without undue provocation.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal other than dogs, cats, or farm animals normally
found in a wild or undomesticated state.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Town authority to regulate animals, see 11 O.S. § 22-115
§ 90.02 KEEPING IN ANNOYING MATTER.
   The keeping of, or permitting the keeping of, any livestock, animals, or
fowl within the corporate limits of the town in such a manner that it annoys or
bothers a person or persons, by barking, howling, or otherwise, or disturbs the
peace and quiet of a person is unlawful and a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-102) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ANIMALS NOT TO BE AT-LARGE.
   No owner shall permit any animals, including chickens and other fowl, owned,
harbored, or kept by him, her, or them to be at-large at any time. All animals
must be kept under restraint.
(Prior Code, § 4-103) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 TURNING ANIMALS AT-LARGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to open any enclosure in which any animal is
confined as required by ordinance so as to turn such animal at-large, or in any
manner to turn such animal at-large.
(Prior Code, § 4-104) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 SWINE NOT TO BE KEPT WITHIN TOWN.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep swine within the town except in
an enclosure awaiting immediate transportation.
   (B)   The keeping or maintaining, or permitting to be kept or maintained,
any swine within the town is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-105) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 PASTURING PUBLIC AREAS ILLEGAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to stake, confine, or pasture any animal on
any public school ground or other public property, federal, state, town, or
other, on any railroad right-of-way, or on any property without the consent of
the person owning or controlling such property.
(Prior Code, § 4-106) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 IMPOUNDMENT AND SALE OF NUISANCE ANIMALS AND ANIMALS RUNNING AT-LARGE.
   (A)   It is the duty of the animal control officer of the town to take into
his, her, or their possession any animal that may be in violation of this
chapter running at-large upon the streets, curbing, alleys, public places, or
trespassing upon the lands of any person within the corporate limits of the
town, or any animal which constitutes a public nuisance, and impound such
animal. An animal impounded by virtue of this chapter shall be released to the
owner or person entitled to the possession thereof upon payment of the cost of
feeding such animal a sum as set by the town’s Board of Trustees.
   (B)   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of any animal
impounded under this chapter does not procure the release of such animal within
48 hours after impoundment, the animal control officer shall post a description
of the animal in the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office, which description shall
give the color, sex, and description of the animal impounded and shall state
that the animal will be sold, or otherwise disposed of, unless it is released
from impoundment on a date not less than 72 hours from the date the notice or
description is posted in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of any animal
impounded under this section is known, the animal control officer shall notify
him, her, or them, in writing or by telephone, that the animal will be
destroyed unless the owner or other person releases such animal from
impoundment. If such animal is not released from impoundment by the owner or
person entitled to the possession thereof prior to such date, the animal
control officer may sell the animal to the highest bidder for cash, and the
buyer shall thereafter have complete title to such animal.
   (D)   From the proceeds of the sale of animals sold under this section,
there shall be first paid the cost of feeding the animals and the cost of
publishing the notice of sale. The residue shall be paid into the office of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and placed to the credit of the General Fund.
   (E)   Any authorized officer may enter on the premises of the owner or other
private premises to take an animal into custody which is in violation of this
chapter.
   (F)   An animal impounded and found to be suffering from a dangerous disease
shall not be released while infected and may be destroyed if deemed necessary
by the animal control officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-107) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF DOGS.
   (A)   It is the duty of every person owning, keeping, or harboring within
the town any dog six months of age or older to cause such dog to be registered
with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, by giving the Clerk-Treasurer a description of
the dog, including its name, breed and sex, and the owner’s or keeper’s name
and address, and applying for and obtaining a license for such dog, within 30
days after such dog reaches the age of six months or after the dog is brought
into the town, and on or before May 1 of each year thereafter.
   (B)   The registration and license tax provided in this chapter shall not
apply to a dog only temporarily brought and kept within the town, nor to a dog
brought within the town to participate in a dog show, nor to a “seeing eye” dog
when such dog is actually being used by a blind person to aid him, her, or them
in going from place to place, nor to dogs being kept in kennels or pet shops
for sale.
(Prior Code, § 4-108) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 LICENSE TAX AND TAG.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby imposed a license tax as set by the Town Board
by motion or resolution per annum on each dog in the town. Such tax shall be
paid at the time the annual license required by §
90.07 is obtained.
      (2)   Upon the payment of such tax to Town Clerk-Treasurer, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall receipt therefor and furnish the applicant a duplicate thereof
which duplicate receipt shall contain a description of the dog upon which the
tax was paid. The Clerk-Treasurer shall also issue an appropriate tag to the
applicant. The tag shall constitute a license for the dog.
   (B)   The owner shall cause the tag received from the Town Clerk-Treasurer
to be affixed to the collar of the dog upon which the tax has been paid so that
the tag can easily be seen by officers of the town. The owner shall see that
the tag is so worn by the dog at all times.
   (C)   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by applying to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, showing to him, her, or them the original receipt, and paying a fee
of $0.50.
   (D)   All monies collected from dog tax by the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be
paid into the town treasury and placed in the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-109) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   It is the duty of the owner, keeper, or harborer of every dog or cat
in the town, once each calendar year before May 1 thereof and, in the case of a
pup or kitten, before it is six months old, to cause such dog or cat to be
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian, secure a certificate of
vaccination from the veterinarian, and attach to the collar of the dog or cat a
metal tag indicating the vaccination.
   (B)   No license shall be issued for the keeping of any dog in the town
until a certificate of such vaccination for the current year is exhibited to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 4-110) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person willfully and maliciously to pour on, or apply
to, an animal, any drug or other thing which inflicts pain on the animal,
knowingly to treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane manner, or knowingly to
neglect an animal belonging to him, her, or them or in his, her, or their
custody in a cruel or inhumane manner.
(Prior Code, § 4-111) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 POISONING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for a person willfully to poison any dog or other animal
except a noxious, non-domesticated animal. It is unlawful knowingly to expose
poison so that the same may be taken by such an animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-112) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 ENCOURAGING ANIMALS TO FIGHT.
   It is unlawful for any person to instigate or encourage a fight between
animals, to encourage one animal to attack, pursue, or annoy another animal,
except a noxious non-domesticated animal, or keep a house, pit, or other place
used for fights between animals.
(Prior Code, § 4-113) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 DOGS MUZZLED AND CATS CONFINED.
   (A)   (1)   When the Health Officer determines and certifies that a dog, a
cat, or other animals in the town or within five miles of the town is or was
infected with rabies and that an epidemic of rabies threatens the town, the
Board of Trustees, by resolution, may order all dogs to be muzzled when at-
large within the town, and if deemed desirable, all cats to be confined, during
a period of time to be determined by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Such resolution or an adequate notice of its passage shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the town and shall go
into effect on the date following such publication unless the resolution
prescribes a later time.
   (B)   While such resolution is in effect, it is unlawful for any owner to
permit an unmuzzled dog or a cat to be at-large in violation of such
resolution, or for any such dog or a cat to be at-large in violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-114) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 VICIOUS ANIMALS MAY BE KILLED.
   Any person may kill an animal in self-defense or in defense of another when
the animal, without undue provocation, bites him, her, or them or the other, or
attacks, or attempts to bite or attack, him, her, or them or the other in such
manner that an ordinarily prudent person would be led to believe that the
person toward whom the efforts of the animal are directed is about to be bitten
or otherwise physically harmed.
(Prior Code, § 4-115) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 ANIMAL THAT BITES TO BE REPORTED AND CONFINED.
   Any owner or custodian of an animal having any reason to believe that such
animal has bitten any person in the town shall immediately report such incident
to the Chief of Police of the town. Such animal shall immediately be confined
at the veterinary clinic chosen by the owner or custodian, under observation of
a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine, for a period of ten days to determine
if such animal be rabid. The cost of confinement shall be borne by the owner or
keeper of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-116) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 RABID ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal suspected of being rabid or of having been bitten by a
rabid animal may be confined by order of the Health Officer or Police Chief to
determine whether the animal is rabid. If a person has been bitten or if there
is good reason to believe that a person has been otherwise infected by such
animal, the Health Officer or Police Chief may have the animal put to death in
a humane manner and have it examined by medical authority to determine whether
it has rabies. All expenses incurred in confining the animal as provided in
this section shall be paid by the owner or keeper of the animal.
   (B)   Any such animal as described in division (A) above may be killed if it
cannot be impounded safely in the discretion of the animal control officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-117) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 KENNELS MUST BE LICENSED.
   Any person owning or operating a kennel must first secure a license from the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and pay a sum as set by the Town Board per year for the
license. The location of the kennel shall be subject to any planning or zoning
guidelines or decisions of the town’s Board of Trustees or the town’s Planning
Commission. In any case, no kennel may be kept in any residential area of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 4-118) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS.
   (A)   Every stable or building wherein any animal is kept within the town
shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that it can be kept
clean and sanitary at all times.
   (B)   Every stable or building, if located within 200 of any tenement or
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building
used for educational, religious, or hospital purposes, or residence other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which such animal
is kept, shall be provided with a water-tight and fly-tight receptacle for
manure, such size as to hold all accumulations in such manner as to prevent it
from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered at all times
except when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure
shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in such receptacle.
   (C)   No stable, dog kennel, chicken coop, dovecote, rabbit warren, yard, or
other establishment wherein animals are kept, shall be maintained closer than
40 feet to any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house,
retail food store, building used for educational, religious, or hospital
purposes or residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the
premises upon which such animal is kept.
   (D)   Every stable, structure, pen, coop, or place wherein an animal is kept
or permitted to be, shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition,
devoid of rodents and vermin and free from objectionable odors.
   (E)   Manure shall be hauled outside the town in a manner which does not
jeopardize the public health, or else shall be spread evenly upon the ground
and turned under at once or as soon as the weather permits.
   (F)   The Health Officer, upon complaint at any person, shall inspect any
structure or place where an animal is kept, and may do so on his, her, or their
own initiative. He, she, or they may issue any such reasonable order as he,
she, or they may deem necessary to the owner of such animal to cause such
animal to be kept as provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to
constitute a nuisance. He, she, or they may make a complaint before the
Municipal Judge against any person for violation of any provision of this
chapter or of any such reasonable order; but this shall not abridge the right
of others to make such complaint.
(Prior Code, § 4-119) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 TOWN MAY ENTER INTO CONTRACT FOR OPERATION OF POUND.
   The Board of Trustees is authorized to join into a cooperative effort with
the county or any other community in the county for the purpose of
establishing, operations and maintaining a pound for animals running in
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-120)
§ 90.21 TETHERING DOGS.
   Any device used to tether a dog must be at least ten feet long and attached
in a manner that prevents strangulation or other injury to the dog, or
entangled with objects, that would not allow the dog to roam freely. A cable
trolley system may be used to tether a dog as long as the stationary cable is
at least ten feet long and the dog can move perpendicularly at least ten feet
away from the stationary line. The line should be attached to the dog with a
buckle-type collar or a body harness. The device used to tether can weigh no
more than 10% of the animal’s weight and must allow the dog access to food and
water at all times.
(Prior Code, § 4-121) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 LEASH LAW.
   It is against the law for domesticated animals such as dogs to run
unrestrained within the town limits. They must be confined to their guardian’s
property or walked on a leash. Guardians of dogs can receive a misdemeanor
citation for allowing their pets to run at-large.
(Prior Code, § 4-122) Penalty, see §
90.99
PERMITS
§ 90.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The director of the county’s Health Department or his, her,
or their authorized agent.
   KEEPER or PERSON. Any person, firm, or corporation owning or actually
keeping, having, using, or maintaining any of the animals herein referred to.
   LARGE ANIMALS. Horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep, or any other
animal of similar size or stature.
   PERMIT. The permit issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer upon approval of the
town’s Health Officer.
   RAT-PROOF. A state of being constructed so as to effectively prevent entry
of rats.
   SMALL ANIMALS. Rabbits, hares, guinea pigs, chinchillas, ducks, hamsters,
pigeons (except homing pigeons), or any other animal of similar size or
stature.
(Prior Code, § 4-130)
§ 90.36 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to keep, own, maintain,
use, or have in their possession any animals, as defined in this chapter,
within the corporate limits of the town; except that the animals may be kept
under the conditions hereinafter set forth, provided a permit be first obtained
as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 4-131) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 PERMITS.
   Permits, as hereinafter referred to and required to be had as a prerequisite
to the keeping, owning, maintaining, using, or having in their possession any
animals, as defined in this subchapter, may be obtained from the Town Clerk-
Treasurer after an application for the permit has been filed with and approved
by the town’s Health Officer. The Health Officer shall approve the application
only after determining that the applicant for the permit complies with the
requirements for the keeping of the animals as set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-132) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 CLASSIFICATION OF PERMITS.
   There shall be two classifications of permits that may be issued under the
provisions of this chapter as follows:
   (A)   Permit for the keeping of small animals, the fee for which shall be $1
per year or any fraction thereof and all permits shall expire December 31 of
each year; and
   (B)   Permit for the keeping of large animals, the fee for which shall be $2
per year or any fraction thereof and all permits shall expire December 31 of
each year.
(Prior Code, § 4-133)
§ 90.39 NUMBER OF ANIMALS ALLOWED.
   No permit shall be issued or be valid if issued for the permitting and
keeping within the town, a combined total of more than two large animals or ten
small animals, but limited to no more than four dogs. No permit shall be issued
or be valid if issued for more than one large animal for each acre of land. No
more than one permit may be issued for each location within the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-134) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40 PERMITS FOR LARGE/SMALL ANIMALS.
   (A)   Permits for the keeping of large animals shall be issued only to those
applicants who provide facilities for the keeping of large animals in quarters
set out herein, which will confine the large animals within limits not closer
than 100 feet to the exterior limits of any dwelling resided in by anyone other
than the applicant unless the other building is owned by the applicant.
   (B)   Permits for the keeping of small animals shall be issued only to those
applicants who provide facilities for the keeping of such small animals in
quarters set out herein, which will confine the small animals within limits not
closer than 25 feet to the exterior limits of any dwelling resided in by anyone
other than the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 4-135) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Practices to be observed in the keeping of the animals under this
chapter.
   (B)   Upon the obtaining of the permit from the Town Clerk-Treasurer as
provided in §
90.40, every keeper shall observe the following practices.
      (1)   Every keeper of any of the animals shall confine the same in an
enclosure sufficient to prevent their running at-large and the enclosure shall
be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times and approved
insecticide shall be used as often as deemed necessary by the town’s Health
Officer.
      (2)   Every keeper shall provide a shelter or area of a size sufficient
to be conducive to good sanitation practices and he, she, or they shall provide
adequate and sanitary drainage for the shelter or area.
      (3)   Every keeper of any of the animals shall cause the litter and
droppings therefrom to be collected daily in a container or receptacle of a
type that when closed it is rat-proof and fly-tight and after each collection
shall cause the container or receptacle to be kept closed. At least twice each
week, each keeper shall cause all litter and droppings so collected to be
disposed of in a way as not to permit the presence of fly larvae.
      (4)   Every keeper of any animals shall cause all feed provided therefor
to be stored and kept in a rat-proof, fly-tight building, box, container, or
receptacle.
      (5)   The failure of any keeper of any of the animals to comply with the
provisions of this chapter or the sanitation standards and requirements
established by the town’s Health Officer shall be cause for the town’s Health
Officer to refuse to grant a permit for the keeping of animals, or if the
permit shall have been previously granted to the keeper, shall be cause for the
revocation of the same. The decision of the town’s Health Officer shall be
subject to review by the Sanitary Committee of the Board if the applicant feels
non-granting of permit or revocation of permit to be unjustified.
      (6)   The premises shall be subject to inspection by the town’s Health
Officer or any of his, her, or their representatives at any reasonable hour of
the day.
(Prior Code, § 4-136) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 NO PERMITS FOR CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   There shall be no permit issued for the keeping of game cocks or swine and
it is illegal to keep game cocks, fighting cocks, or swine within the town
limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-137) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 DOGS EXEMPT.
   Dogs licensed as required by other ordinances are exempt from the permit and
permit fee as required by this chapter, but where more than two dogs are kept,
all other provisions of this chapter, applicable to small animals, must be
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 4-138)
§ 90.44 NOT TO BE NUISANCE.
   It is the duty of the holder of any permit provided for in this chapter to
maintain and operate the housing and keeping of the animals in such a manner as
not to create a nuisance as determined by any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4-139) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.45 ANIMALS FOR SCIENTIFIC STUDY.
   This section applies to the keeping of animals within the limited number
herein set forth, in medical laboratories and educational institutions for
medical research or in veterinarian hospitals for treatment or in pet shops for
resale, they shall be kept under the same conditions prescribed by this chapter
with the distance and structural requirements herein otherwise set forth.
(Prior Code, § 4-140) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.46 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   This chapter shall be cumulative of all other sanitary chapters or
regulations of the town, unless in conflict with the terms of the ordinances
and regulations, in which case the terms of this chapter shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 4-141)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter, or who violates, refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable order
made by the Health Officer or town’s Police Chief pursuant to this chapter,
shall upon conviction thereof be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-150)
   (C)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding a public nuisance or at-
large animal, the animal control or police officer may issue a citation to the
owner and the Court may impose a fine of not less than $25 and not more than a
maximum as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. An owner harboring or possessing a vicious
animal may be issued a citation and fined in the amounts as set forth herein,
and the Court may further order such animal, if still living to be destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 4-107)
   (D)   In addition to being a misdemeanor, a violation of §
90.21 would be subject to a civil penalty of $100 per day for each day of the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 4-121)
(Ord. passed 8-3-1987)
CHAPTER 91: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practice
   
91.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
91.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
91.07   Exemption
   
91.08   Administration
   
91.09   Education and conciliation
   
91.10   Enforcement
   
91.11   Investigations; subpoenas; giving of evidence
   
91.12   Enforcement by private persons
   
91.13   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
91.14   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-501)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
91.04 through
91.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives,   mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 12-502)
§ 91.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
91.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in this section shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by
division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
91.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner: Provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time: Provided further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (B) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period: Provide
further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his, her, or their behalf, under any
express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family
houses at any one time: Provided further, that the sale or rental of any such
single-family house shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only
if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, salesperson,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such facilities or
services of any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of
any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesperson, or person; and/or
         (b)   Without the application, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
91.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his, her, or their residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He, she, or they has, within the preceding 12 months, participated
as principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He, she, or they has, within the preceding 12 months, participated
as an agent, other than in the sale of his, her, or their own personal
residence in providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services
in two or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any
interest therein; or
      (3)   He, she, or they is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § 12-503) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
91.03 and except as exempted by §§
91.03(B) and §
91.07, it shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, or familial status;
   (B)   Discriminate against any person on the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, or familial status;
   (C)   Make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, or familial status or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, or national
origin that any dwelling is not available, for inspection, sale, or rental when
such dwelling is in fact so available; or
   (E)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
or national origin, handicap, or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 12-504) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling, or
to discriminate against him, her, or them in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, national origin, associated
with him, her, or them in connection with such loan or other financial
assistance, or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance, or of
the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given. Provided, that nothing contained in this
section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
91.03(B).
(Prior Code, § 12-505) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, rental, or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him,
her, or them in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or
participation, on account of race, color, religion, national origin, handicap,
or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 12-506) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, handicap, or familial status.
   (B)   Nor shall anything in this section prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
(Prior Code, § 12-507)
§ 91.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering the Act shall be in
the chief executive officer of the town.
   (B)   The chief executive officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties, and powers to employees of the town or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties, and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The
chief executive officer shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his, her, or their hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or
to other officers in the town, to boards of officers, or to himself, herself,
or themself as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the chief executive officer to further such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 12-508)
§ 91.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the chief executive officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He, she, or they shall call conferences of persons in
the housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter and his, her, or their suggested means of
implementing it, and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of
voluntary compliance and of enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 12-509)
§ 91.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he, she, or they will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter, “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the chief executive officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the chief executive officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
chief executive officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or about to commit the alleged discriminatory
housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or within 30 days
after the expiration of any period of reference under division (C) below, the
chief executive officer shall investigate the complaint and give notice in
writing to the person aggrieved whether he, she, or they intends to resolve it.
If the chief executive officer decides to resolve the complaints, he, she, or
they shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory
housing practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation, and
persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may
be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this
chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him, her, or them and with the leave of the chief executive officer,
which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may
amend his, her, or their answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall
be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the chief executive
officer, the chief executive office has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days
thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. The chief executive officer will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days hereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent names in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the Court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the Court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
chief executive office shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(Prior Code, § 12-510)
§ 91.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   (1)   In conducting an investigation the chief executive officer shall
have access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents,
individuals, and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may
examine, record, and copy such materials and take and record the testimony or
statements of such persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of
the investigation; Provided however, that the chief executive officer first
complies with the provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable
searches and seizures.
      (2)   The chief executive officer may issue subpoena to compel his, her,
or their access to or the production of such materials, or the appearance of
such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extend
and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or
interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United
States District Court for the district in which the investigation is taking
place. The chief executive officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the chief executive officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the chief executive officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show
on their face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they
were issued at his, her, or their request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the chief executive officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him, her, or
them.
   (D)   (1)   Within five days after services of a subpoena upon any person,
such person may petition the chief executive officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena.
      (2)   The chief executive officer shall grant the petition if he, she, or
they finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an
unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of evidence which does
not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does not describe with
sufficient particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be
unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the chief
executive officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition
for its enforcement in the Municipal or State Court for the district in which
the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or transacts
business.
   (F)   The Town Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the chief
executive officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-511) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
91.03 through
91.06 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred: Provided however, that the
Court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
91.10(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the Court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the chief executive officer are likely to
result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory housing practice
complained of in the complaint made to the chief executive officer and which
practice forms the basis for the action in Court: And provided, however, that
any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any Court
order issued under the authority of this chapter, and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant without actual notice of the existence of
the filing of a complaint or civil action under the provisions of this chapter
shall not be affected.
   (B)   The Court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than $1,000 punitive
damages, together with Court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees in the case
of a prevailing plaintiff. Provided, that the said plaintiff in the opinion of
the Court is not financially able to assume said attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 12-512)
§ 91.13 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or an account of his, her, or their
having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his, her, or their having aided
or encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right
granted or protected by sections §§
91.03 through
91.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Prior Code, § 12-513) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his, her, or their race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, or familial status and because he, she, or they is
or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting
or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he, she, or they is or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, in any of the activities,
services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A) above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Prior Code, § 12-515) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any employee of the chief executive officer who shall make public any
information in violation of §
91.10 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year.
(Prior Code, § 12-510)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify
or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other
evidence, if in his, her, or their power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena
or lawful order of the chief executive officer shall be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
      (2)   Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the chief executive
officer, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in
any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the chief executive
officer pursuant to his, her, or their subpoena or other order, or shall
willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true, and correct
entries in such reports, accounts, records, or other documents, or shall
willfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means falsify any documentary
evidence, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both.
(Prior Code, § 12-511)
   (D)   Any citizen because he, she, or they is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, in any of
the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
91.14(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to so participate: shall be fined not more than
$1,000, or imprisoned not more than one year, or both: and if bodily injury
results shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten
years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any
term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § 12-515)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES; SALVAGE/JUNK VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Nuisance defined
   
92.02   Persons responsible
   
92.03   Time does not legalize
   
92.04   Remedies against public nuisances
   
92.05   Remedies against private nuisances
   
92.06   Power to define and summarily abate nuisances
   
92.07   Certain public nuisances
   
92.08   Summary abatement of nuisances
   
92.09   Abatement by suit in District Court
   
92.10   Nuisance unlawful
   
92.11   Health nuisances; abatement
   
92.12   Toilet facilities required
   
92.13   Procedure cumulative
Salvage/Junk Vehicles
   
92.25   Definitions
   
92.26   Wrecking shop, junk yard, and the like screened from public view
   
92.27   Wrecked vehicles and junk prohibited
   
92.27   Notice of responsible party to remove vehicle or junk
   
92.28   Duty of responsible person to comply with notice; authority
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   (A)   A nuisance is unlawfully doing an act or omitted to perform a duty or
is anything or condition which either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or
safety of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, stream, canal or
basin, or any public park, square, street, or other public property; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   (B)   A public nuisance is one which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons, although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal.
   (C)   Every nuisance not included in division (B) above is a private
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances defined, municipal powers to abate, see 50 O.S. §§ 1 et seq.
§ 92.02 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Every successive owner of property who neglects to abate a continuing
nuisance upon or in the use of such property, created by a former owner, is
liable therefor in the same manner as the one who first created it.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)
§ 92.03 TIME DOES NOT LEGALIZE.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)
§ 92.04 REMEDIES AGAINST PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a public nuisance are:
   (A)   Prosecution on complaint before the Municipal Court;
   (B)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
   (C)   Civil action; or
   (D)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. § 12; or
      (2)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-304)
§ 92.05 REMEDIES AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCES.
   The remedies against a private nuisance are:
   (A)   Civil action; or
   (B)   Abatement:
      (1)   By person injured as provided in 50 O.S. §§ 14 and 15; or
      (2)   By the town in accordance with law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)
§ 92.06 POWER TO DEFINE AND SUMMARILY ABATE NUISANCES.
   (A)   As provided in 50 O.S. § 16, the town has power to determine what is
and what shall constitute a nuisance within its corporate limits and, for the
protection of the public health, the public parks and the public water supply,
outside of its corporate limits.
   (B)   Whenever it is practical to do so, the town has the power summarily to
abate any such nuisance after notice to the owner and an opportunity for him,
her, or them to be heard, if this can be done.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)
§ 92.07 CERTAIN PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   In addition to other public nuisances declared by other sections of
this code or law, the following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   The sale or offering for sale of unwholesome food or drink, or the
keeping of a place where such sales or offerings are made;
      (2)   The sale, offering for sale, or furnishing of intoxicating liquor
in violation of the state law or ordinances of the town; or keeping of a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold, offered for sale, or furnished in violation
of the state law or ordinance of the town;
      (3)   The exposure, display, sale, or distribution of obscene pictures,
books, pamphlets, magazines, papers, documents, or objects; or the keeping of a
place where such are exposed, displayed, sold, or distributed;
      (4)   The keeping of a place where persons gamble, whether by cards, slot
machines, punch boards or otherwise;
      (5)   The keeping of a place where prostitution, illicit sexual
intercourse, or other immoral acts are practiced;
      (6)   The keeping of a place where activities in violation of state law
or ordinance are practiced or carried on;
      (7)   The conduct or holding of public dances in violation of the
ordinances of the town; or the keeping of a place where such dances are held;
      (8)   The public exposure of a person having a contagious disease;
      (9)   The continued making of loud or unusual noises which annoy persons
or ordinary sensibilities or the keeping of an animal which makes such noises;
      (10)   The operation or use of any electrical apparatus or machine which
materially or unduly interferes with radio or television reception by others;
      (11)   Any use of a street or sidewalk or a place adjacent thereto which
causes crowds of people to gather so as to obstruct traffic on such street or
sidewalk, or which otherwise obstructs traffic thereon, except as may be
authorized by law or ordinance;
      (12)   Permitting water or other liquid to flow or fall, or ice or snow
to fall, from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk;
      (13)   All wells, pools, cisterns, bodies or containers of water in which
mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, or which are so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (14)   Rank weeds or grass, carcasses, accumulations of manure, refuse,
or other things which are, or are likely to be, breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes, vermin, or disease germs; and the premises on which such exist;
      (15)   Any building or structure which is dangerous to the public health
or safety because of damage, decay, or other condition;
      (16)   Any pit, hole, or other thing which is so constructed, formed,
conditioned, or situated as to endanger the public safety;
      (17)   Any fire or explosion hazard which endangers the public safety;
      (18)   Any occupation or activity which endangers the public peace,
health, morals, safety, or welfare;
      (19)   Any stable or other place where animals are kept that may become
obnoxious or annoying to any resident of the town, by reason of any noise or
noises made by the animal therein, or by reason of lack of sanitation, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance;
      (20)   Any motor vehicle (whether in operating condition or not) or any
trailer without a current vehicle plate as required by law for vehicles used on
the public highways, when stored or kept in a residence district;
      (21)   No person shall park, maintain, deposit, or store an unlicensed or
inoperable vehicle on any street, alley, or other public property, or on the
adjacent yard or driveway of any residence within the town or upon any lot or
land within the town unless said vehicle is:
         (a)   Enclosed in a garage or other building;
         (b)   Enclosed behind a fence; or
         (c)   In a licensed salvage yard.
      (22)   No vehicle which is parked adjacent to any commercial service
station or commercial garage and awaiting repairs shall be considered
inoperable unless said vehicle remains parked for 30 or more days.
   (B)   The above enumeration of certain public nuisances shall be cumulative
and not limit other provisions of law or ordinances defining public or private
nuisances either in more general or more specific terms.
(Prior Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s note:
   Division (A)(22) became effective on 9-9-2002.
§ 92.08 SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Some nuisances are of such nature as to constitute a grave and
immediate danger to the peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of one or
more persons or of the public generally. It is recognized that circumstances
may be such as to justify, and even to require the Mayor or other appropriate
officer or agency of the town’s government to take immediate and proper action
summarily to abate such nuisances, or to reduce or suspend the danger until
more deliberate action can be taken toward such abatement.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of Police, the Town
Attorney, the Building Inspector, the Electrical Inspector, the Plumbing
Inspector or any other officer subordinate to the Mayor may submit through or
with the consent of the Mayor to the town’s Board of Trustees, a statement as
to the existence of a nuisance as defined by the ordinances of the town of law,
and a request or recommendation that it be abated. The Mayor himself, herself,
or themself, the Health Officer, and Board of Trustees or any resident or
residents of the town may submit such a statement and request a recommendation
to the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether or not the alleged
nuisance is in fact a nuisance. For the purpose of gathering evidence on the
subject, the Board of Trustees shall have power to subpoena and examine
witnesses, books, papers, and other effects. Before proceeding to abate the
nuisance or have it abated, the Board of Trustees shall give notice of a
hearing on the proposed abatement to the owner of any property concerned and an
adequate opportunity to be heard, if such notice and opportunity for a hearing
can be given. Such notice to the owner and other persons concerned shall be
given in writing by mail or by service by a police officer if their names and
addresses are known; but, if the names or addresses are not known, and the
peace, health, safety, morals, or welfare of the person or persons or public
adversely affected would not be unduly jeopardized by the necessary delay, a
notice of the hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation
within the town.
   (D)   If the Board of Trustees finds that a nuisance does in fact exist, it
shall direct the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the nuisance
to abate it within a specified time if the peace, health, safety, morals, or
welfare of the person or persons or public adversely affected would not be
unduly jeopardized by the consequent delay, or if the owner or other persons
responsible for or causing the nuisance do not abate it within the specified
time, the Board of Trustees shall direct the Mayor to abate the nuisance or to
have it abated, if summary abatement is practical, as authorized by 50 O.S. §
16. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall send a statement of the cost of such summary
abatement to the owner or other persons responsible for or causing the
nuisance, as may be just under the circumstances, if their names and addresses
are known. Until paid, such cost shall constitute a debt to the town
collectible as other debts to the town may be collected.
   (E)   The cost of abatement of nuisances, if ordered by the town, may be
added onto the utility bill servicing the same premises or added to the tax
rolls as a lien against the property.
   (F)   Whenever there exists an apparent violation of §
92.07(A)(21), the town shall serve notice of the violation upon the occupant of
the real property upon which such inoperable vehicle or other condition is
located. The notice may be served personally, or by posting the notice on the
inoperable vehicle or some other conspicuous place upon said real property. The
notice shall inform such person of the violation and request that compliance
with this section be accomplished within 14 days after service of the notice.
   (G)   In the event such person fails to comply with the provisions of this
section within 14 days after service of the notice, the town may cause the
inoperable vehicle to be removed and placed or stored in a safe and convenient
place. The person in possession of such vehicle and any personal property
therein shall be responsible only for the reasonable care of such property.
   (H)   Any inoperable vehicle which has been impounded as provided in this
section for 30 days or more shall be disposed of in the following manner: The
town shall publish a notice once a week for two consecutive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town, which notice shall describe the
motor vehicle by name of maker, model, color, and serial number and shall state
that it has been impounded and will be sold at public auction to the highest
bidder, if the owner thereof does not claim it within ten days of the date of
the second publication of the notice and pay the removal, storage, and
publication charges incurred by the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s note:
   Divisions (F) through (H) became effective 9-9-2002.
§ 92.09 ABATEMENT BY SUIT IN DISTRICT COURT.
   In cases where it is deemed impractical summarily to abate a nuisance the
town may bring suit in the District Court of the county where the nuisance is
located, as provided in 50 O.S. § 17.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
§ 92.10 NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person, including but not limited to any owner,
lessee, or other person to create or maintain a nuisance within the town or to
permit a nuisance to remain on premises under his, her, or their control within
the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11 HEALTH NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority granted by 63 O.S. § 1-1011, the Health Officer
shall have authority to order the owner or occupant of any private premises in
the town to remove from such premises, at his, her, or their own expense, any
source of filth, cause of sickness, condition conducive to the breeding of
insects or rodents that might contribute to the transmission of disease, or any
other condition adversely affecting the public health, within 24 hours, or
within such other time as may be in writing and may be served personally on the
owner or occupant of the premises, or authorized agent thereof may be left at
the last usual place of abode of the owner, occupant, or agent, if known and
within the state. If the premises are unoccupied and the residence of the
owner, occupant, or agent is unknown, or is without the state, the order may be
served by posting a copy thereof on the premises or by publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper having a general circulation in the town.
   (B)   If the order is not complied with, the Health Officer may cause the
order to be executed and complied with and the cost thereof shall be certified
to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and the cost of removing or abating such nuisance
shall be added to the water bill or other town utility bill of the owner or
occupant if he, she, or they is a user of water from the town’s water system or
such other utility service. The cost shall be treated as a part of such utility
bill to which it is added and shall be come due and payable, and subject to the
same regulations relating to delinquency in payment as the utility bill itself.
If such owner or occupant is not a user of any town utility service, such cost,
after certification to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, may be collected in any manner
in which any other debt due the town may be.
(Prior Code, § 8-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.12 TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HUMAN EXCREMENT. The bowel and kidney discharge of human beings.
      SANITARY PIT PRIVY. A privy which is built, rebuilt, or constructed so as
to conform with the specifications approved by the state’s Health Department.
      SANITARY WATER CLOSET. The flush-type toilet which is connected with a
sanitary sewer line of such capacity and construction as to carry away the
contents at all times.
   (B)   (1)   Every owner of a residence or other building in which humans
reside, are employed or congregate within the town shall install, equip, and
maintain adequate sanitary facilities for the disposal of human excrement by
use of a sanitary water closet or a sanitary pit privy.
      (2)   The closets and toilets hereby required shall be of the sanitary
water closet type when located within 200 feet of a sanitary sewer and
accessible thereto and of the sanitary water closet type (notwithstanding a
greater distance from a sanitary sewer) or the water closet type emptying into
a septic tank system or the pit privy type. A septic tank system or a pit privy
may be used in such cases only if it meets the standards of and is approved by
the state’s Health Department.
   (C)   All human excrement disposed of within the town shall be disposed of
by depositing it in closets and privies of the type provided for in the
section. It is unlawful for any owner of property within the town to permit the
disposal of human excrement thereon in any other manner, or for any person to
dispose of human excrement within the town in any other manner.
   (D)   (1)   All privies shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times, and
the covers of the seats of privies shall be kept closed at all times when the
privies are not being used.
      (2)   No wash water, kitchen slop, or anything other than human excrement
and toilet paper shall be emptied into a privy.
      (3)   No excrement from any person suffering from typhoid fever,
dysentery, or other serious bowel disease shall be deposited in any sanitary
pit privy or sanitary water closet until it is disinfected in such a manner as
may be prescribed by the Health Officer.
   (E)   All facilities for the disposal of human excrement in a manner
different from that required by this section and all privies and closets so
constructed, situated, or maintained as to endanger the public health, are
hereby declared to be public nuisances, and may be dealt with and abated as
such. Any person maintaining any such nuisance is guilty of an offense and each
day upon which any such nuisance continues is a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.13 PROCEDURE CUMULATIVE.
   The various procedures for abating nuisances prescribed by this chapter and
by other provisions of law and ordinance shall be cumulative on to any other
penalties or procedures authorized.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)
SALVAGE/JUNK VEHICLES
§ 92.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENCLOSED AREA. Any area which is inaccessible and not visible to the public
view.
   JUNK. Discarded material of any nature or substance whatsoever, or any scrap
or salvage materials, including but not limited to paper, rags, furniture,
tires, plumbing fixtures, plastic, vehicles or machinery parts, bicycle parts,
brushes, beds, mattresses, box springs, household appliances, or household
goods.
   JUNKYARD. An open area where junk or secondhand materials are bought, sold,
exchanged, stored, baled, packaged, disassembled, or handled.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town or any town property within or
without the town which is not a street or highway.
   SALVAGE OR WRECKING YARD. Any area of land where one or more inoperable
motor vehicles, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being
restored to operation.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power that is
designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or
slides and to transport persons or property or to pull machinery and shall
include without limitation any automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor,
buggy and wagon, or any part or portion thereof.
   WRECKING SHOP. Every person who shall acquire a motor vehicle for the
purposes of dismantling it, or who shall sell or offer for sale a part from a
dismantled motor vehicle is hereby declared to be engaged in the business or
occupation of operating an automobile or motor vehicle wrecking shop.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 92.26 WRECKING SHOP, JUNK YARD, AND THE LIKE SCREENED FROM PUBLIC VIEW.
   Any person operating a wrecking shop, salvage or wrecking yard, or junk yard
shall screen from the public view by a tight board or screen fence, not less
than ten feet high, or of sufficient height to screen the wrecked or disabled
automobiles or junk kept therein so that automobiles or junk shall not be
visible to view from adjacent properties or persons on the road, on foot or in
vehicles.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.27 WRECKED VEHICLES AND JUNK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying any property or
premises within the town to allow a wrecked, damaged, demolished, or disabled
vehicle, or any part or portion thereof, or any junk to remain on such
property, premises, or street, except as provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.27 NOTICE OF RESPONSIBLE PARTY TO REMOVE VEHICLE OR JUNK.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, his, her, or their duly
authorized representative to cause written notice to be served upon the owner
of the vehicle or junk which is in violation of this code, if he, she, or they
can be located or the person in custody of or responsible for such vehicle or
junk, by mail or by personal service.
   (B)   Such notice shall state that such vehicle or junk is deemed to be in
violation of the provisions of this code, and shall further state that such
vehicle or junk must be removed by him, her, or them within ten days of service
of such notice.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 92.28 DUTY OF RESPONSIBLE PERSON TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person receiving the notice provided in
this subchapter to comply with the provisions of the notice and to remove such
vehicle or junk within ten days after the date of the receipt thereof.
   (B)   If such person shall fail or refuse to remove such vehicle or junk
within ten days of receipt of such notice, such vehicle or junk may be removed
and disposed of at the discretion of the by the Chief of Police or his, her, or
their duly authorized representative at the expense of the owner or person in
custody thereof.
   (C)   Any money received by the town for the disposal of such vehicle or
junk shall be applied to the expenses to be charged to the owner or person in
charge thereof for removal and/or disposition.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND DRIVEWAYS
Section
Use and Obstruction of Streets
   
93.01   Trees and shrubbery to be trimmed
   
93.02   Injuring trees and shrubbery
   
93.03   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks with merchandise
   
93.04   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks
   
93.05   Depositing trash on streets and sidewalks
   
93.06   Playing on streets
   
93.07   Washing vehicles on street
   
93.08   Water and mud from vehicles
   
93.09   Water from filling stations and other businesses
   
93.10   Permitting sidewalk to become a hazard
   
93.11   Interfering with drainage
Culverts and Driveways
   
93.25   Construction and maintenance of culverts
   
93.26   Constructions must be approved
   
93.27   Tax levies
Complete Streets
   
93.40   Definitions
   
93.41   Complete streets requirements
   
93.42   Lead department
   
93.43   Implementation
   
93.44   Exceptions to policy
   
93.45   Performance measures
   
93.46   Reporting requirements
 
   
93.99   Penalty
USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS
§ 93.01 TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO BE TRIMMED.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any premises abutting on any street of the town
shall trim all trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the
sidewalks and the roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery
growing on any part of the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or
alley, in such manner that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free
and convenient passage and travel along the streets, sidewalks, and alleys.
      (2)   When such premises are occupied by some person other than the
owner, such occupant shall trim the trees and shrubbery in the same manner as
hereinafter required of the owner.
      (3)   Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest
branches or foliage shall not be lower than ten feet above the roadway of a
street or alley, nor lower than eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse, or neglect to trim
trees and shrubbery as provided in division (A) above, after receiving five
days’ notice from the head of the department in charge of streets to do so,
shall be guilty of an offense against the town.
      (2)   Every day that the owner or occupant shall fail, refuse or neglect
to trim the trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of the five days’ notice,
shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 14-101) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the town; provided that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery.
(Prior Code, § 14-102) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS WITH MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place upon or permit
to be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets, and alleys of the town any
goods, wares, articles of merchandise, or any other obstruction, and leave same
thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or trade.
(Prior Code, § 14-103) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use or obstruct the
sidewalks of the town in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian
traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the town in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(Prior Code, § 14-104) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DEPOSITING TRASH ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit, throw, or
sweep into or upon the streets, alleys, parking, or sidewalks of the town any
paper, rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes, or
other refuse of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 14-105) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 PLAYING ON STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play on the main-traveled portion of the
streets and alleys of the town, except as may be authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14-106) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 WASHING VEHICLES ON STREET.
   The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any street of the town is
hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 14-107) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 WATER AND MUD FROM VEHICLES.
   No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the town
where the water, dirt, mud, or other substances removed therefrom by or during
the washing thereof, shall drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 14-108) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES.
   It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place
of business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease,
or other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over, or across any sidewalk,
parking, street, alley, or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 14-109) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 PERMITTING SIDEWALK TO BECOME A HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
sidewalk area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property
to become a hazard to persons using the sidewalk, or sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, § 14-110) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 INTERFERING WITH DRAINAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct any street,
sidewalk, or alley, by placing any approach driveway or other obstruction or
substance whatever that will obstruct or prevent the natural flow of water,
into the storm sewers or drains, or dam the same so as to back any water upon
the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or gutter.
(Prior Code, § 14-111) Penalty, see §
93.99
CULVERTS AND DRIVEWAYS
§ 93.25 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF CULVERTS.
   Owners of private property, for the purpose of adequate drainage along the
side of U.S. Highway No. 169, and all streets in the town shall place culverts
at least 18 inches in diameter, made of corrugated iron under their driveways
to the highway and the streets of the town, provided that smaller culverts may
be placed under driveways on streets other than through highways and U.S.
Highway No. 169, but all such culverts and driveways shall be subject to
inspection and approval by an Inspector designated by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 14-201) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 CONSTRUCTIONS MUST BE APPROVED.
   No culvert or driveway shall be constructed or maintained on the right-of-
way of any designated street or federal highway, or on any street in the town,
until approval has been given by the Inspector appointed by the Board of
Trustees, and any culverts or driveways constructed without such approval may
be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 14-202) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 TAX LEVIES.
   In the event property owners fail and refuse to comply with this subchapter,
then the Board of Trustees may construct the driveway and culvert and levy a
tax upon the owners of any property affected for the purpose of paying the cost
of such improvements.
(Prior Code, § 14-203)
COMPLETE STREETS
§ 93.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLETE STREET. A street or roadway that allows safe and convenient travel
by all users of the following categories: pedestrians, bicyclists, people with
disabilities, motorists, movers of commercial goods, users and operators of
public transportation, and users of all ages, including seniors, children,
youth, and families.
   HIGH-NEED AREA.
      (1)   Any census tract in which the median household income is less than
80% of the statewide average median based on the most current census tract-
level data from the U.S. Census Bureau American Community Survey;
      (2)   Any area within two miles of a school in which at least 50% of the
children are eligible to receive free and reduced-price meals under the
National School Lunch Program; or
      (3)   Any area that has a high number of pedestrian and/or bicycle
collisions.
   TRANSPORTATION PROJECT. Any development, project, program, or practice that
affects the transportation network or occurs in the public right-of-way,
including any construction, reconstruction, retrofit, signalization operations,
resurfacing, restriping, rehabilitation, maintenance (excluding routine
maintenance that does not change the roadway geometry or operations, such as
mowing, sweeping, and spot repair), operations, alteration, and repair of any
public street or roadway within the town (including alleys, bridges, frontage
roads, and other elements of the transportation system).
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 93.41 COMPLETE STREETS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The town shall work toward developing an integrated and connected
multi-modal transportation system of complete streets that serves all
neighborhoods.
   (B)   Toward this end:
      (1)   Every transportation project, and every phase of each project
(including planning, scoping, funding, design, approval, implementation, and
maintenance), by the town shall provide for complete streets for all categories
of users identified in §
93.40;
      (2)   The town and its Street Department shall routinely work in
coordination with each other, and any relevant advisory committees to create
complete streets and to ensure consistency with any existing pedestrian/
bicycle/multi-modal plans;
      (3)   Wherever possible, transportation projects shall strive to create a
network of continuous bicycle- and pedestrian-friendly routes, including routes
that connect with transit and allow for convenient access to work, home,
commercial areas, and schools;
      (4)   The town and its Street Department shall coordinate with adjacent
jurisdiction(s) and any other relevant public agencies, to ensure that,
wherever possible, the network of continuous bicycle- and pedestrian-friendly
routes identified in division (B)(3) above extends beyond the town’s boundaries
into adjacent jurisdictions;
      (5)   The town shall rely upon the current editions of street design
standards and guidelines that promote and support complete streets:
         (a)   Urban Street Design Guide and Urban Bikeway Design Guide
(National Association of City Transportation Officials);
         (b)   Designing Walkable Urban Thoroughfares: A Context Sensitive
Approach (Institute of Transportation Engineers and the Congress for the New
Urbanism);
         (c)   Pedestrian Safety Guide and Countermeasure Selection System
(U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration);
         (d)   Bicycle Safety Guide and Countermeasure Selection System (U.S.
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration); and
         (e)   Separated Bike Lane Planning and Design Guide (U.S. Department
of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration).
      (6)   This policy shall be implemented in all neighborhoods, with
particular attention to high-need areas; and
      (7)   (a)   All complete streets shall reflect the context and character
of the surrounding built and natural environments, and enhance the appearance
of such.
         (b)   At the planning stage, the town shall work with local residents,
business operators, neighboring jurisdictions, school districts, students,
property owners, and other stakeholders who will be directly affected by a
complete streets project to address any concerns regarding context and
character.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 93.42 LEAD DEPARTMENT.
   The town’s Street Department and its supervisor shall lead the
implementation of this policy and coordinate with members of the Town Board.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 93.43 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   All street design standards used in the planning, designing, and
implementing phases of transportation projects shall be reviewed to ensure they
reflect the best available design guidelines for effectively implementing
complete streets.
   (B)   The town shall incorporate this policy into relevant internal manuals,
checklists, rules, and procedures.
   (C)   The town’s Street Department shall assess whether any municipal and
zoning codes, land use plans, or other relevant documents, including the
Capital Improvement Program, conflict with this policy, and shall submit a
report, along with a proposal for addressing any conflicts, to the Town Board.
   (D)   The town shall provide training on complete streets and the
implementation of this policy to all relevant staff, and develop a plan for
providing such training for new hires.
   (E)   The town shall identify all high-need areas.
   (F)   The town shall identify an existing process or develop a new process
that allows for public participation in decision-making concerning the design,
planning, and use of streets and roadways covered by this policy.
   (G)   The town shall actively seek sources of public and private funding to
assist in the implementation of this policy.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 93.44   EXCEPTIONS TO POLICY.
   (A)   A specific category of user may be excluded from the requirements of §
93.41 only if one or more of the following exceptions apply:
      (1)   Use of the roadway is prohibited by law for the category of user.
In this case, efforts shall be made to accommodate the excluded category of
user on a parallel route;
      (2)   There is no current or perceived future need to accommodate the
category of user; and/or
      (3)   The cost of accommodating those users would be excessively
disproportionate to the current need or future need over the next 20 years.
   (B)   An exception shall be granted only if:
      (1)   A request for an exception is submitted in writing, with supporting
documentation, and made publicly available with a minimum of 30 days allowed
for public input; and
      (2)   The exception is approved in writing by the town, and the written
approval is made publicly available.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 93.45   PERFORMANCE MEASURES.
   In order to evaluate whether the streets and transportation network are
adequately serving each category of users, the town’s Street Department shall
collect and report baseline and annual data, including in high-need areas, on
matters relevant to this policy, including, without limitation, the following
information:
   (A)   Mileage by new and existing bicycle infrastructure;
   (B)   Linear feet of new and existing pedestrian infrastructure;
   (C)   Number of new and existing ADA-compliant curb ramps installed;
   (D)   Number of new street trees planted;
   (E)   Type and number of pedestrian- and bicycle-friendly signage and
landscaping improvements, including street furniture and lighting;
   (F)   Bicycle and pedestrian counts, including in high-need areas;
   (G)   Commute mode percentages as provided by the American Community Survey
conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau (e.g., drive alone, carpool, transit,
bicycle, walk);
   (H)   The percentage of transit stops accessible via sidewalks and curb
ramps;
   (I)   The number, locations, and causes of collisions, injuries, and
fatalities by each mode of transportation;
   (J)   The total number of children walking or bicycling to school; and
   (K)   Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) or Single Occupancy Vehicle (SOV) trip
reduction data.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 93.46 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   One year from the effective date of this policy, and annually thereafter,
the lead agency shall submit a report to the Town Board on the progress made in
implementing this policy that includes, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Baseline and updated performance measures as described in §
93.45;
   (B)   A summary of:
      (1)   All transportation projects planned or undertaken and their status,
including a full list and map, with clear identification of which projects are
located in High-Need Areas;
      (2)   All exceptions granted pursuant to §
93.44, including identification of exceptions granted in high-need areas;
      (3)   The progress made in achieving the benchmarks for high-need areas
developed pursuant to §
93.43(E);
      (4)   Updates to street design standards, internal department and agency
manuals and procedures, zoning and municipal codes, and land use plans,
pursuant to §
93.43(A) through (C);
      (5)   All funding acquired for projects that enhance the complete streets
network; and
      (6)   All staff trainings and professional development provided pursuant
to §
93.43(D).
   (C)   Any recommendations for improving implementation of this policy.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
93.01 through
93.11 shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 14-112)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
93.25 through
93,27, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 14-204)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Enforcement of health ordinances
   
94.02   Obstructing Health Officer
   
94.03   Quarantine
   
94.04   Hazardous material
Fire Prevention Code
   
94.15   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
94.16   Enforcement
   
94.17   Definition
   
94.18   Limits for storage of flammable liquids, bulk storage of liquefied
petroleum gases, explosives, and blasting agents
   
94.19   Modifications
   
94.20   Appeals
Weeds and Trash
   
94.35   Accumulation of trash or weeds
   
94.36   Definitions
   
94.37   Reports of accumulation of grass, weeds, or trash on property
   
94.38   Receipt of report, hearing and notice
   
94.39   Work done by employees or contract
   
94.40   Determination and assessment of cost
   
94.41   Lien on the property, civil remedy
   
94.42   Service of notice
   
94.43   Depositing rubbish except where authorized
   
94.44   Burning refuse
   
94.45   Removal of dead animals
   
94.46   Littering
   
94.47   Littering from automobiles
   
94.48   Accumulation of litter on property
Food Regulations
   
94.60   Adoption of U.S. Food Service Sanitation Ordinance
   
94.61   Adoption of milk ordinance
   
94.62   Grade requirements
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 ENFORCEMENT OF HEALTH ORDINANCES.
   Anywhere in this chapter where the word or words “Health Officer” are used
it shall be construed to mean the director of the county’s Health Department or
his, her, or their duly designated representative. It is the intent and purpose
of the Mayor and town’s Board of Trustees to delegate the enforcement of the
health ordinances of the town as set out in this subchapter and any such
decisions rendered under this subchapter shall be subject to review by the
governing board upon an appeal from an offender.
(Prior Code, § 8-401) (Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 94.02 OBSTRUCTING HEALTH OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or interfere with any
Health Officer or physician charged with the enforcement of the health laws of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-402) (Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 QUARANTINE.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully violate or refuse or omit to
comply with any lawful order, direction, prohibition, rule, or regulation of
the Board of Health or any officer charged with enforcement of such order,
direction, prohibition, rule, or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 8-403) (Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or the designated Fire Chief’s agent is authorized to
clean up or abate the effects of any hazardous substance or waste unlawfully,
accidentally, or negligently released, discarded, or deposited upon or into any
property or facilities within in the town.
   (B)   The following described persons shall be jointly and severally liable
to the town for the payment of all costs incurred by the town or its agents as
a result of such clean up or abatement activity:
      (1)   The person or persons whose accidental, negligent, or willful actor
or omission proximately caused such release, discharge, or deposit;
      (2)   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
hazardous substance or waste at the time of such release, discharge, or deposit
without regard to fault or proximate cause; and
      (3)   The person or person who owned or had custody or control of the
container which held such hazardous waste or substance at the time or
immediately prior to such release, discharge, or deposit without regard to
fault or proximate cause.
   (C)   (1)   In the event that any person undertakes, either voluntary or
upon order of the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s designated agent, to clean up
or abate the effects of any hazardous substance or waste negligently,
unlawfully, or accidentally released, discharged, or deposited upon or into
property or facility within the town, the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s
designated agent may take such action as is necessary to supervise or verify
the adequacy of the clean up or abatement.
      (2)   The persons described in this section shall be liable to the town
for all costs incurred as a result of such supervision or verification. The
authority to recover costs under this section shall not include actual fire
suppression services which are normally or usually provided by the Fire
Department at no or small cost.
(Res. 2018-04, passed 8-6-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 94.15 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the town’s Board of Trustees for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention
Code, abbreviated edition, recommended by the American Insurance Association,
being particularly the current edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and
except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended.
   (B)   Not less than one copy of the code has been filed in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein. The provisions of The Fire Prevention
Code shall be controlling within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-101)
§ 94.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 13-102)
§ 94.17 DEFINITION.
   Wherever the word “municipality” is used in the Fire Prevention Code hereby
adopted, it shall be held to mean the town.
(Prior Code, § 13-103)
§ 94.18 LIMITS FOR STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED
PETROLEUM GASES, EXPLOSIVES, AND BLASTING AGENTS.
   The limits referred to in the Fire Prevention Code, in which storage of
flammable liquids in outside above-ground tanks is prohibited, the limits
referred to in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, and
the limits in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited,
are hereby established as the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 13-104) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the code hereby adopted in his, her, or their own discretion or
upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his, her, or their duly
authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be
observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars
of such modifications when granted or allowed and the decision of the Chief of
the Fire Department thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Department
and for applications requesting change, a signed copy shall be furnished the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 13-105)
§ 94.20 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the town’s Board of Trustees
within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 13-106)
WEEDS AND TRASH
§ 94.35 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH OR WEEDS.
   It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot, tract, or parcel of
land situated wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the town to
allow trash or weeds to grow, stand, or accumulate upon such premises, alley,
or right-of-way. It is the duty of such owner or occupant to remove or destroy
any such trash or weeds.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
Statutory reference:
   Cleaning, mowing property, municipal powers, see 11 O.S. § 22-110
§ 94.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. Either artificial or natural screening which obstructs and prevents
the view of the articles subject to this subchapter and prohibits ready access
to the area by children. The FENCE shall be of sufficient and uniform height so
that no such articles can be seen from the surrounding area and shall be
constructed of material which is compatible with the character of the
neighborhood in which it is located. The FENCE or FENCING shall be subject to
the approval of the town.
   INOPERABLE. In a condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or partially
dismantled, abandoned, unlicensed, or unable to perform the functions or
purposes for which it was originally intended.
   OWNER. The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the
County Treasurer.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or their
agent as owner, lessee, tenant, or occupant.
   TRASH. Any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, waste, or matter of any kind or form which is
uncared for, discarded, or abandoned.
   VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, tractor, or motorcycle which as originally
designed contained an engine, regardless of whether it now contains an engine.
   WEEDS.
      (1)   Includes but is not limited to poison ivy, poison oak, or poison
sumac and all vegetation at any stage of maturity which:
         (a)   Exceeds ten inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs, or
produce for human consumption or own in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community of a hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of the weeds;
         (b)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
         (c)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
         (d)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
         (e)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
         (f)   Is dead or diseased.
      (2)   The term WEED does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than 150 feet from a parcel zoned for
other than agricultural use.
(Prior Code, § 8-102)
§ 94.37 REPORTS OF ACCUMULATION OF GRASS, WEEDS, OR TRASH ON PROPERTY.
   Any officer or employee of the town who discovers an accumulation of trash
or the growth of grass and weeds, or both these conditions, upon any premises
within the limits of the town, shall report the condition to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer if, as a result of the accumulation or growth, the premises appear to
be:
   (A)   Detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and the
community;
   (B)   A hazard to traffic;
   (C)   A fire hazard to property; or
   (D)   Any two or more of these conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)
Statutory reference:
   Cleaning and mowing of property, procedures, and powers, see 11 O.S. § 22-
111
§ 94.38 RECEIPT OF REPORT, HEARING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon receiving the report provided for in §
94.37, or upon receipt of equivalent information from any reliable source, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer shall place the matter upon the agenda of the Town Board
for hearing and consideration at an appropriate date which will permit the
giving of the notices prescribed by state law. At the hearing, the Board shall
consider whether the premises, by reason of the conditions specified, are
detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and the
community, or a hazard to traffic, or a fire hazard to property, or any two or
more of such conditions.
   (B)   At least ten days prior to the hearing, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
give written notice of the hearing by posting upon the premises and by
forwarding a copy thereof by certified mail with return receipt requested to
the owner of the property at the address shown by the current year’s tax rolls
in the office of the Treasurer of the county in which the property is located.
If the return receipt shows that the property owner cannot be located, notice
shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation one time
not less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   At least ten days from the date of receipt of the notice by the owner
or the date of publication and upon the date specified in the notice, the Town
Board shall hear the matter and shall receive information thereon, including
anything which may be presented by the owner of the premises, personally or by
agent or attorney. If the Board determines that any of the conditions specified
in §
94.37 exist upon the premises, it may order the property to be cleaned of
trash, or other trash or weeds to be cut, removed, or destroyed unless within
ten days from the date of receipt of the notice or date of publication the
owner either:
      (1)   Cuts, removes, or destroys the trash or weeds in accordance with
the notice; or
      (2)   Gives written consent authorizing the town to abate the trash or
weeds, thereby waiving his, her, or their right to a hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
§ 94.39 WORK DONE BY EMPLOYEES OR CONTRACT.
   The work ordered to be performed under §
94.38 may be done by the employees of the town under supervision of the town’s
Utility or Sanitation Department, or it may be let by contract to the lowest
and best bidder, after appropriate notice, in the manner for letting other
contracts.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
§ 94.40 DETERMINATION AND ASSESSMENT OF COST.
   (A)   Upon the completion of the work ordered to be performed under §
94.39, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall report the cost thereof to the Town
Board. Such report shall be itemized as to each tract of property involved as
follows: labor, machinery rental or depreciation, fuel and supplies, cost of
notice, other costs and indirect costs of 5% of direct actual costs.
   (B)   The Board shall examine the report and, after receiving appropriate
information, shall determine the total costs of the work.
   (C)   The Board shall direct the Town Clerk-Treasurer to forward a statement
and demand payment of the total cost by certified mail with return receipt
requested to the owner of the property at the address shown by the current tax
rolls in the office of the Treasurer of the county in which the property lies.
(Prior Code, § 8-106)
§ 94.41 LIEN ON THE PROPERTY, CIVIL REMEDY.
   (A)   If the costs of the work performed under this subchapter are not paid
within 30 days from the date of mailing the notice prescribed by §
94.40 hereof, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the costs to the Treasurer of the county in which the property
upon which the work was done is located, in order that the amount be levied
upon the property and be collected by the county treasurer in the manner
prescribed by the law of the state.
   (B)   The lien is coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other
taxes and special assessments and prior and superior to all other titles and
liens against the property.
   (C)   The lien shall continue until the cost is fully paid.
   (D)   At any time prior to collection as provided in this section the town
may pursue any civil remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon.
   (E)   Upon receiving payment, if any, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall forward
to the County Treasurer a notice of such payment and directing discharge of the
lien.
(Prior Code, § 8-107) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.42 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The service of all notices prescribed by this subchapter shall be evidenced
by the return of the officer making such service, certified in his, her, or
their official capacity, and filed in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-108)
§ 94.43 DEPOSITING RUBBISH EXCEPT WHERE AUTHORIZED.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, place, or deposit any rubbish,
trash, slop, garbage, filthy substance, grass, weeds, trees, brush, or any
other refuse or waste matter in any street, avenue, and alley or in any ditch
or watercourse, or upon the premises of another, or upon any public ground in
the town, except at the tree dump located on the northeast side of the town
where the town residents may dump trees, tree limbs, brush, garden trimmings,
and leaves only.
(Prior Code, § 8-109) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.44 BURNING REFUSE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to willfully burn any trash or refuse or any type
material within the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to burn trash, waste paper, rubbish, or
refuse except under a permit issued by the state’s Health Department or U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 8-110) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.45 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner or any person having charge of any animal dying in the town, shall
within 24 hours after the death of such animal, remove its carcass, and failure
to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8-111) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.46 LITTERING.
   (A)   Littering is defined as throwing any trash, refuse, waste paper, tin
cans, bottles, or any other object or substance whatever upon the public
streets, alleys, roadways, and sidewalks of the town or upon any real property
owned or occupied by another.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to litter.
(Prior Code, § 8-112) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.47 LITTERING FROM AUTOMOBILES.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw from any automobile or motor vehicle
being operated and driven upon and over the streets, alleys, and roadways of
the town any litter, trash, waste paper, tin cans, or any other substance or
refuse whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-113) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.48 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, occupying any
real property, either as tenant or owner, to allow trash, waste paper, litter
objects, bottles, tin cans, or any other used or disposed of objects to
accumulate upon such real property or premises being so occupied or rented to
such an extent as to constitute a littering nuisance.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation occupying any real
property, either as tenant or owner, to allow accumulated trash, waste paper,
litter objects, bottles, tin cans, or any other used or disposed of objects to
be carried from the occupied premises, either by the wind, elements, or
otherwise to any adjoining or other real estate not so owned or occupied by the
offender.
(Prior Code, § 8-114) Penalty, see §
94.99
FOOD REGULATIONS
§ 94.60 ADOPTION OF U.S. FOOD SERVICE SANITATION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The unabridged form of the latest education of the “United States
Public Health Service Food Service Sanitation Ordinance and Code” is hereby
adopted and incorporated in this code by reference. At least one copy of the
Sanitation Ordinance and Code shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. The Sanitation Ordinance and Code shall govern the definitions,
inspection of food service establishments, the issuance, suspension and
revocation of permits to operate food service establishments, the prohibiting
of the sale of adulterated or misbranded food or drink and the enforcement of
this section. In the Sanitation Ordinance and Code, however, all parenthetical
phrases referring to grading and the following subsections shall be understood
to be deleted: Subsection H.2.e., H.7 and H.8.
   (B)   HEALTH AUTHORITY shall mean the director of the county’s Health
Department of the county or his, her, or their designated representative.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
Statutory reference:
   State food regulations, see 63 O.S. §§ 1-1101 et seq.
§ 94.61 ADOPTION OF MILK ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Part II of the Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, latest edition,
recommended by the U.S. Public Health Service, is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference to govern and regulate the production,
transportation, processing, handling, sampling, examination, grading, labeling
and sale of milk and milk products sold for ultimate consumption within the
town limits or its police jurisdiction; the inspection of dairy farms, dairy
herds and milk plants; the issuing and revocation of permits to milk producers,
haulers, and distributors.
   (B)   At least one copy of the Pasteurized Milk Ordinance shall be filed in
the office of the appropriate official. Sections 9, 16, and 17 of the abridged
ordinance shall be replaced, respectively by §§
94.62 and
94.99(G).
(Prior Code, § 8-202)
Statutory reference:
   Manufacture of milk, see 2 O.S. §§ 7-1 et seq.
   State laws regulating milk standards, see 63 O.S. §§ 1-1301 et seq.
§ 94.62 GRADE REQUIREMENTS.
   Only grade A pasteurized milk and milk products shall be sold to the final
consumer, or to restaurants, soda fountains, grocery stores, or similar
establishments; provided that in an emergency, or the grade which is unknown,
may be authorized by the health authority, in which case, such milk and milk
products shall be labeled “ungraded.”
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
94.01 through
94.04 or any law or code adopted by reference in this chapter is guilty of an
offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code. In addition, thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violations.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
94.15 through
94.20, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 13-107)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation found violating any provision of §§
94.35 through
94.48 shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code and/or a lien assessed against the property for
administrative costs and mowing charges.
(Prior Code, § 8-115)
   (E)   Any unauthorized dumping will be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-109)
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of §
94.60 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code. In addition thereto, any person convicted of violation may
be enjoined from continuing the violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
   (G)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
94.60 through
94.62 is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 7-2-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Cleaning and mowing of property, procedures, and powers see 11 O.S. § 22-111
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
      
111.   SOLICITATION
      
112.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
113.   MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
      
114.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   License fee levied on occupations
   
110.02   Ex-service persons
   
110.03   Payment of license tax; issuance of license; expiration date
   
110.04   Separate licenses required
   
110.05   License to be displayed
   
110.06   License may be revoked
   
110.07   Transfer of license prohibited
   
110.08   Duplicate license
   
110.09   Fee for fortune telling
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE FEE LEVIED ON OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   A license fee is hereby levied on every person engaging in,
exercising, or pursuing any business, profession, trade, occupation, privilege,
or calling in the town in such sum as the town’s Board of Trustees may require.
   (B)   (1)   In order to receive a license under this chapter, every person,
firm, or corporation regulated pursuant to this section is required to possess
a valid and current state sales tax permit if such person, firm, or corporation
is a vendor subject to collection of sales taxes under the sales tax code of
the town and state.
      (2)   A copy of this permit shall be provided by the applicant for a
license to the Town Clerk-Treasurer prior to issuance of the town license.
      (3)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may require reasonable information from an
itinerant or peddler or solicitor which the Clerk-Treasurer deems desirable to
protect the public interest. ITINERANT means not residing in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to tax and regulate occupations, see 11 O.S. §§ 22-106
and 22-107
§ 110.02 EX-SERVICE PERSONS.
   Nothing in this chapter or in other ordinances of the town shall be deemed
to require ex-service persons to secure a license or pay a license fee for
engaging in a business, occupation, or privilege when he, she, or they is
exempted therefrom by statutes of the state or other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)
§ 110.03 PAYMENT OF LICENSE TAX; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION DATE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in, exercise, or pursue any
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license tax
is levied by this code or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision without
paying the license tax, and securing and possessing a valid license therefor.
   (B)   Upon making proper application to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, the
payment of the license tax and fulfillment of any other condition which may be
prescribed by law or ordinance, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license
therefor.
   (C)   Such license taxes shall be credited to the General Fund of the town.
   (D)   Licenses shall expire annually.
(Prior Code, § 9-103) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Every person who engages in, exercises, or pursues a business, profession,
trade, occupation, or privilege for which a license is required, at or from
more than one place in the town, or who engages in, exercises, or pursues more
than one such business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, shall pay
the fee, and secure a separate license, for each such place or for each such
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege.
(Prior Code, § 9-104) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a
business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, shall conspicuously
display the license at all times in some part of his, her, or their place of
business or activity where a person who has entered the place may readily see
it; or, if he, she, or they has no particular place of business or activity,
shall carry the license and shall display it to any person who requests to see
it.
   (B)   In lieu of the manner of displaying such licenses provided above, when
licenses are required for coin-operated music or amusement devices, vending
machines, and similar devices and equipment, the license may be placed on or
attached to such device or equipment in such position and manner that it will
be clearly visible, and shall be so placed or attached if the license so states
on its face. It is unlawful to fail or refuse to display the license as
required in this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-105) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE MAY BE REVOKED.
   Any license issued by the town to any person to engage in, exercise, or
pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, may be
revoked by the Board of Trustees after adequate opportunity for a hearing, for
either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The licensee is engaging in, exercising, or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege in such a manner that he, she, or
they has created or is creating a public nuisance as defined by state law or
local ordinance; or
   (B)   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-106)
§ 110.07 TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   The assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-107) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   License may not be transferred, see 11 O.S. § 22-107
§ 110.08 DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever any license to engage in, exercise, or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation, or privilege, has been lost or destroyed without
any wrongful act or connivance by the holder, the Town Clerk-Treasurer, on
application, shall issue a duplicate license for the unexpired time.
   (B)   Before the duplicate is issued, the holder shall make, and file with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer an affidavit that the license has not been
transferred, that it has been lost or destroyed without any wrongful act or
connivance by the holder, and that, if believed lost, he, she, or they has made
diligent search for it and has been unable to find it.
   (C)   The fee for every duplicate license issued, payable to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, shall be set by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-108) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 FEE FOR FORTUNE TELLING.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons pretending or professing to tell
fortunes by the use of any subtle craft, means, or device whatsoever, either by
palmistry, clairvoyance, or otherwise, plying his, her, or their trade, art, or
vocation within the town, to make any charge therefor either directly or
indirectly, or to receive any gift, donation, or compensation by any means
whatsoever for the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-109) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who engages in any business, profession, trade, or occupation, or
exercises any privilege, for which a license is required by this chapter,
without a valid license as thereby required, or who shall violate any provision
of this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Violation of this chapter shall also be grounds for
revocation or suspension of license granted.
(Prior Code, § 9-110)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITATION
Section
Door-to-Door Solicitation
   
111.01   Door-to-door solicitation
   
111.02   Registration to engage
   
111.03   Time period for door-to-door solicitation
All Other Solicitation
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   License required
   
111.17   Application
   
111.18   Investigation and issuance
   
111.19   Fees
   
111.20   Records
   
111.21   Revocation of license; notice of hearing
   
111.22   Appeal
   
111.23   Expiration of license
   
111.24   Loud noise and speaking device
   
111.25   Time period for transient merchant solicitation
   
111.26   Duty of police to enforce
   
111.27   Exceptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION
§ 111.01 DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION.
   Door-to-door solicitation is defined as going on private premises upon which
is located a dwelling or business establishment within the town without the
prior permission of the owner or occupant thereof for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or services or for the
purpose of soliciting donations by offering to deliver or make an actual
deliver of goods, wares, merchandise, or agree to perform or performing
services in exchange for the donation of money. The term door-to-door
solicitations shall not apply to activities, the proceeds from which are for
the exclusive use of charitable, religious, political, or other non-profit
purpose. An organization is deemed to be non-profit if it has achieved such
status under the Internal Revenue Service Code (I.R.C. § 501(c)(3)).
(Prior Code, § 9-201) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION TO ENGAGE.
   Each individual desiring a registration certificate to engage in door-to-
door solicitations shall file their application with the Town Clerk-Treasurer
on a form furnished by the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Upon receipt of such
application, and a fee of $25, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall register the
applicant and issue a registration certificate.
(Prior Code, § 9-202) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 TIME PERIOD FOR DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION.
   Every registration certificate issued herein shall be issued for a 24-hour
period of time to be utilized only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
Monday through Saturday, and is not permitted on Sundays or legal holidays, and
shall be terminated upon its expiration. Upon complaint and evidence of good
cause, the Governing Body, upon a hearing of the matter, affording the
registered solicitor an opportunity to be heard, may permanently deny issuance
of a registration certificate.
(Prior Code, § 9-203) Penalty, see §
111.99
ALL OTHER SOLICITATION
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, a TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT
MERCHANT, or ITINERANT VENDOR is defined as any person, whether as owner,
agent, consignee, or employee, whether a resident of the town or not, who
engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares, and
merchandise within the town. For the purpose of this subchapter, transient
merchant, itinerant merchant, and itinerant vendor shall be referred to as
“transient merchant” through the remainder of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 111.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant or itinerant
merchant, or itinerant vendor to engage in such business within the town
without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of the Transient Merchant Licensing Act shall not apply
to:
      (1)   Sales at wholesale to retail merchants by commercial travelers or
selling agents in the usual course of business;
      (2)   Wholesale trade shows or conventions;
      (3)   Sales of goods, wares, or merchandise by sample, catalog, or
brochure for future delivery;
      (4)   Fairs and convention center activities conducted primarily for
amusement or entertainment;
      (5)   Any general sale, fair, auction, or bazaar sponsored by any church
or religious organization;
      (6)   Any sale sponsored by schools and universities or any charitable
organization;
      (7)   Trade fairs;
      (8)   Flea markets;
      (9)   Garage sales held on the premises devoted to residential use;
      (10)   Sales of crafts or items made by hand and sold or offered for sale
by the person making such crafts or handmade items;
      (11)   Sales of agricultural products, including Christmas trees and
firewood;
      (12)   Sales made by a seller at residential premises pursuant to an
invitation issued by the owner or legal occupant of such premises;
      (13)   Any person who maintains a permanent place of business in the
state and has a registered agent therein upon whom process, notice, or demand
permitted by law may be made;
      (14)   Any person whose participation with a transient merchant or in the
temporary or transient business is limited to providing any building,
structure, motor vehicle, railroad car, or real estate;
      (15)   Fireworks; or
      (16)   Bibles.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applicants for license under this subchapter, whether a person, firm,
or corporation, shall file a written sworn application signed by the applicant,
if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the president if a
corporation, with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The application shall show:
      (1)   The name of the person having the management or supervision of the
applicant’s business during the time that is proposed that it will be carried
on in the town;
      (2)   The local address of such person while engaged in such business;
      (3)   The permanent address of such person;
      (4)   The capacity in which such person will act (that is, whether as
proprietor, agent, or otherwise);
      (5)   The name and address of the person for whose account the business
will be carried on, if any;
      (6)   If a corporation, under the laws of which state the same is
incorporated;
      (7)   A background check performed by the town;
      (8)   The places in the town where it is proposed to carry on the
applicant’s business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that
the business shall be conducted;
      (9)   The places, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant, where the applicant within the six months next preceding the date of
the application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and
giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which
such business was conducted;
      (10)   A statement of the nature, character, and quality of the goods,
wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by applicant in the town,
the invoice value and quality of such goods, wares and merchandise, whether the
same are proposed to be sold from stock in possession and by sample; at
auction, by direct sale and by taking orders for future delivery; where the
goods or property proposed to be sold are manufactured or produced; and where
such goods or products are located at the time the application is filed;
      (11)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising
done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, copies of all the advertising whether by handbills,
circular, newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to the
application as exhibits thereto;
      (12)   Whether or not the person conducting the applicant’s business has
been convicted of a felony, the nature of such offense and the punishment
assessed therefor;
      (13)   Credentials from the person for which the applicant proposes to do
business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative;
      (14)   A copy of the current and valid state sales tax permit in the name
of the applicant; and
      (15)   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character
of the person having the management or supervision of the applicant’s business
or the method or plan of doing such business as the Town Clerk-Treasurer may
deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this section in the protection of the
public good.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall cause
such investigation of such person’s business responsibility or moral character
to be made as he, she, or they deems necessary to the protection of the public
good.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant’s character and
business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application shall
be denied. If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
reputation appear to be satisfactory, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall so certify
in writing, and a license shall be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a full record in his, her, or
their office of all licenses issued. Such record shall contain the number of
the license, the date the same is issued, the nature of the business authorized
to be carried on, the amount of the license fee paid, the expiration date of
the license, the place where the business may be carried on under the license,
the place where the business may be carried on under the license, and the name
of the person authorized to carry on the same.
   (D)   The license issued under this chapter shall be posted conspicuously in
the place of business named therein. In the event that such person applying for
the license shall desire to do business in more than one place within the town,
separate licenses may be issued for each place of business, and shall be posted
conspicuously in each place of business.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 FEES.
   Licenses under this subchapter shall pay a license fee as provided in the
town’s fee schedule.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 111.20 RECORDS.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the background investigation records
of the licensee, together with a license number, with the Chief of Police; the
Chief of Police shall report to the Town Clerk-Treasurer any complaints against
any person licensed under the provisions of this subchapter and any conviction
for violation of this subchapter; the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record
of all such licenses and of such complaints and violations.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 111.21 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   The licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the
Mayor of the town after notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares, or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this subchapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this subchapter in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee, at his, her, or their last known address, at least five days prior to
the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 111.22 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Town Clerk-Treasurer in
regard to the denial of application for license or license renewal or in
connection with the revocation of a license shall have the right to appeal to
the Board of Trustees of the town.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees,
within 14 days after notice of the decision by the Town Clerk-Treasurer has
been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written statement setting
forth the grounds for the appeal. The Board of Trustees shall set the time and
place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given
to such person in the same manner as notice of hearing on revocation.
   (C)   The order of this Town Board on such appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 111.23 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire the
day fixed for expiration on the license.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 111.24 LOUD NOISE AND SPEAKING DEVICE.
   No licensee under this chapter, nor anyone in his, her, or their behalf,
shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or buzzer any other
sound device, including any loud-speaking radio or amplifying system, upon any
of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the town or upon any
private premises in the town where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or
produced therefrom capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues,
alleys, or parks or other public places, for the purpose of attracting
attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise which such license proposes to
sell.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 TIME PERIOD FOR TRANSIENT MERCHANT SOLICITATION.
   Every transient merchant license issued herein shall be issued for the time
of the issue date to the expiration date and the hour period of time to be
utilized only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday through
Saturday, and is not permitted on Sundays, and shall be terminated upon its
expiration. Upon complaint and evidence of good cause, the governing body, upon
a hearing of the matter, affording the registered solicitor an opportunity to
be heard, may permanently deny issuance of a registration certificate.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It is the duty of the police officers of the town to examine all places of
business and persons in their respective territories subject to the provisions
of this subchapter, to determine if this chapter has been complied with and to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter against any person found to be
violating the same.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 111.27 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Types of events. In the town, there are three types of special events:
civic events and commercial activities, and town-sponsored events.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CIVIC EVENT. Any special event using or occupying public sidewalks,
streets, rights-of-way, or other publicly owned property and must be sponsored
by a nonprofit organization.
      COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Any special event using only private property.
      TOWN-SPONSORED EVENT. Any event that is created, planned, and implemented
by the town or its agencies.
   (C)   Civic event application. The civic event application process starts
with the Special Events Coordinator. The application review involves many
departments town-wide and requires at least six months for processing. Civic
event type examples:
      (1)   Parade/festival;
      (2)   Music show;
      (3)   Classic car show; and
      (4)   Festival.
   (D)   Commercial activity application. The commercial activity application
process starts with the Fire Department. The application review requires at
least 14 days for processing, although it is recommended that applicants apply
30 days or more in advance:
      (1)   Firework sales;
      (2)   Christmas tree lots; and
      (3)   Private fundraiser events.
   (E)   Town-sponsored events. It is encouraged that town-sponsored events
seek event sponsorship by outside entities as well as charging participation
fees to reduce costs. Permit fees are waived for events falling in this
category. Even though events may continue to be classified as town-sponsored,
seeking private and corporate sponsorship is encouraged.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall fail and refuse to comply with the provisions of
§§
111.01 through
111.03 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine
not more $500 maximum per §
10.99 of this code, and/or incarceration in the county jail for not more than
30 days.
(Prior Code, § 9-204)
   (C)   Any person who shall fail and refuse to comply with the provisions of
§§
111.15 through
111.27 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine
not more $500 maximum per §
10.99 of this code, and/or incarceration in the county jail for not more than
30 days.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-3-2017)
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
Alcoholic Beverages and Tax
   
112.01   Definitions and interpretations
   
112.02   Occupation tax levied; license to be issued
   
112.03   Payment of tax and securing of license required
   
112.04   Town Clerk-Treasurer to make annual report
   
112.05   Retail package stores; location
   
112.06   Separate sale of alcoholic beverages and other goods
   
112.07   Days and hours of operation
   
112.08   Sale only in original package
   
112.09   Regulations applicable to alcoholic beverages
   
112.10   Package store sign
   
112.11   Advertising
Non-Intoxicating Beverages
   
112.25   Definitions
   
112.26   License fee levied
   
112.27   License required
   
112.28   Compliance with law; expiration of license
   
112.29   Revocation of license
   
112.30   Employment age requirements
   
112.31   Intoxicated persons; gambling; disorderly conduct
   
112.32   Sale and purchase to or by minors
   
112.33   Minors; possession of alcoholic beverages or beer
   
112.34   Drinking in public
   
112.35   Hours of sale
   
112.36   Transporting non-intoxicating beverages
 
   
112.99   Penalty
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND TAX
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Word, phrases, and terms used in this subchapter shall have the meaning
prescribed by, and be construed in conformity with, the definitions of the same
set forth in the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, 37 O.S. §§ 501 to 566,
with the same force and effect as if the definitions were set forth in full in
this subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning or
constructions.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
§ 112.02 OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED; LICENSE TO BE ISSUED.
   (A)   An annual occupation tax is hereby levied on persons engaging in the
following businesses or occupations within the town in the amounts respectively
indicated:
Business Tax Levied
Business             Tax Levied
Brewer               $1,250
Class B wholesaler   $625
Distiller            $3,125
Oklahoma winemaker   $75
Rectifier            $2,500
Retail package store Not to exceed $300
Wholesaler           $2,000
Winemaker            $625
 
   (B)   Mixed drink sellers shall pay an annual occupation tax for the first
year of operation in the sum of $750 and $500 for each year thereafter.
   (C)   The license fee for brewers and for Class B wholesalers shall be
reduced by 75% if the applicant therefor is also the holder of a license to
manufacture or wholesale, as the case may be, any intoxicating beverages as
provided by 37 O.S.
   (D)   All licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire on June
30 of the year for which issued. The cost of a license of any type or class
applied for during the fiscal year shall be a pro rata part of the cost of the
yearly license, provided that the cost of the license shall be computed on a
monthly basis. Any license issued after the fifteenth day of any month shall be
charged for on the basis of the first day of the next month.
   (E)   A person desiring to engage in any of the above businesses or
occupations within the town shall make application for a license therefor to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer the above
required occupation tax. If the applicant carries on his, her, or their
occupation in more than one location within the town limits, he, she, or they
shall be subject to tax for each location. If the applicant holds a valid state
license to engage in the business or occupation within the town issued by the
Director of the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, if the application is
in accordance with this subchapter, and if the applicant has paid the required
town occupation tax, then the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the license
applied for. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises
wherein the licensee carries on the occupation.
(Prior Code, § 3-102) Penalty, see §
112.99
Editor’s note:
   Division (B) became effective on 1-22-1988.
Statutory reference:
   State license and fees, town not to levy greater fee, see 37 O.S. § 518
§ 112.03 PAYMENT OF TAX AND SECURING OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any of the businesses or
occupations upon which this subchapter levies an occupation tax without having
paid the town occupation tax levied by this subchapter and without having a
valid license from the Town Clerk-Treasurer provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER TO MAKE ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall make an annual report as of the close of
business on June 30 each year to the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Board
showing the number and class of licenses issued and the amount of money
received therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 3-104) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 RETAIL PACKAGE STORES; LOCATION.
   (A)   No retail package store or any other business licensed by this
subchapter shall be located or operated at any place except at locations
permitted by the town’s zoning or planning laws.
   (B)   The location of a retail package store is specifically prohibited
within 300 feet from any church property primarily and regularly used for
worship services and religious activities, or a public school. However, if any
such church or school shall be established within 300 feet of any licensed
retail premises after such premises have been licensed this shall not be a bar
to the renewal of such license so long as it has been in continuous force and
effect. The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property entrance door of the premises of such package store along the
street right-of-way line providing the nearest direct route usually traveled by
pedestrians between such points. For the purpose of determining measured
distance, property situated on the opposite side of the street from such church
or school. A license shall not be issued for a location on any block where a
school or church is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-105) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. § 534
§ 112.06 SEPARATE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND OTHER GOODS.
   The premises of a retail package store shall be separated from the premises
on which any other goods, wares, or merchandise are sold or services are
rendered, by non-transparent walls which may be broken by a passageway to which
the public is not admitted for the purpose of selling, reselling, or delivering
in connection with the sale of the alcoholic beverages. No person shall take
any alcoholic beverage through any passageway described in this section for the
purpose of selling or reselling such beverage, or for the purpose of delivery
thereof in connection with a sale of such beverages.
(Prior Code, § 3-106) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any person holding a license for a retail package store
or any employee or agent thereof to keep the premises of the retain package
store open for the purpose of selling, or to sell, any alcoholic beverages at
any hour other than between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Monday
through Saturday; or on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary, or
special election; or on New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor
Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day.
(Prior Code, § 3-107) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 SALE ONLY IN ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   Retail package stores may sell alcoholic beverages only in retail containers
in the original package for consumption off the premises. Alcoholic beverages
may be sold only at ordinary room temperatures.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish alcoholic beverages to any
person under 21 years of age;
   (B)   Who is under the age of 21, to misrepresent his, her, or their age in
writing or by presenting documentation of age for the purpose of inducing any
person to sell him, her, or them alcoholic beverages;
   (C)   To employ any person under the age of 21 years in the selling or
handling of alcoholic beverages;
   (D)   Who is a licensee or an agent or employee thereof to permit any person
under 21 years of age to enter into, remain within, or loiter about a licensed
premises;
   (E)   To knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish alcoholic beverages to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged insane or mentally
deficient;
   (F)   To open a retail container or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises or a retail package store; or for any operator of a retail package
store or any person in charge thereof, to permit any person to open a retail
container therein or consume alcoholic beverages therein;
   (G)   To transport in any vehicle upon any street, alley, or other public
way within the town any alcoholic beverage except in the original container,
which shall not have been opened and the seal of which shall not have been
broken, and from which the original cap or cork shall not have been removed,
unless the opened container be in the trunk or any closed compartment or other
container out of public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of
the vehicle;
   (H)   To drink intoxicating liquor in public or to be intoxicated in a
public place; and
   (I)   Who is the operator of a café, restaurant, club, or any place of
recreation, to permit any person to be drunk or intoxicated in such place of
business.
(Prior Code, § 3-109) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 PACKAGE STORE SIGN.
   No person owning, operating, or maintaining a retail alcoholic beverage
package store shall cause or permit it to be designated by more than one sign,
which shall contain only the words “Retail Alcoholic Liquor Store,” or any
combinations of such words or any of them, and which shall contain no letter or
figure more than four inches in height or more than three inches in width and
in which the lines of words, if more than one, shall not be more than one inch
apart.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. § 516
§ 112.11 ADVERTISING.
   No person shall advertise, or cause to be advertised, in any manner, other
than as authorized by this subchapter, the sale of alcoholic beverages within
the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
112.99
NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
§ 112.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. A person who has not yet attained the age at which a person is
permitted to consume non-intoxicating beverages under state law.
   NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES. All beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol
by volume, and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   RETAIL DEALER. Any person, firm, corporation, association, or concessionaire
who sells, distributes, or dispenses at retail, any non-intoxicating beverage
within the corporate limits of the town, without regard as to any place where
such beverages may be consumed or used.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Regulations on non-intoxicating beverages, see 37 O.S. §§ 163.1 et seq.
§ 112.26 LICENSE FEE LEVIED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied upon each retail dealer in non-intoxicating
beverages for consumption on or off the premises an annual occupation tax of
$20, and an annual license fee of $10 for sale of non-intoxicating beverages
which are in original packages and are not for consumption on the premises.
   (B)   All such municipal license fees taxes shall be paid to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer at the time of issuance of license and in the manner prescribed
herein.
   (C)   (1)   All license fees levied under the provisions of this subchapter
shall expire on June 30 of each year.
      (2)   The amount of any license fee levied shall be computed pro rata
from the months remaining in the year ending April 30.
      (3)   Such fees paid on or before the fifteenth day of any month shall be
on the basis of the first day of the month and such fees paid after the
fifteenth day of the month shall be on the basis of the first day of the next
succeeding month.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
Statutory reference:
   State license requirements, cities not to levy more than state license, see
37 O.S. § 163.7
§ 112.27 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any retail dealer, whether permanent or temporary, to
sell, distribute, or dispense any non-intoxicating beverages without having
first received a municipal license as herein required.
(Prior Code, § 3-203) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.28 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   No municipal license shall be issued to any retail dealer by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer without a satisfactory showing that the applicant has obtained all
state and county permits required by law, and has in all other respects
complied with the state and local alcoholic beverage control requirements. No
license shall be transferrable.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 112.29 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The town’s Board of Trustees shall have power, after public hearing, to
revoke any license granted hereunder for violation of law or ordinance by the
license holder.
(Prior Code, § 3-205) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.30 EMPLOYMENT AGE REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any owner, manager, or operator of a place where non-
intoxicating beverages are sold for consumption on the premises, except an
eating place where the service of such beverages is incidental to the main
business of serving food, to employ a person under 18 years of age to work in
such place.
(Prior Code, § 3-206) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.31 INTOXICATED PERSONS; GAMBLING; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager, or operator of a place where
non-intoxicating beverages are sold for consumption on the premises to sell or
otherwise furnish such beverages to an intoxicated person or to permit an
intoxicated person to remain or loiter therein.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager, or operator of such a place to
permit therein gambling, betting, operation of a lottery; sale, furnishing, or
drinking of intoxicating liquor; disorderly conduct; loud or disturbing
language, noise, or music; profane language; or any other violation of the laws
of the state or of the ordinances of the town, or for any person to engage in
any such activity or conduct in such a place.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner, manager, or operator of such a place to
permit therein fighting, boxing, wrestling, or other contests of physical
strength; or for any person to fight, box, wrestle, or engage in other contests
of physical strength in such a place.
(Prior Code, § 3-207) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32 SALE AND PURCHASE TO OR BY MINORS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, offer for sale,
give away, procure for, or otherwise dispense to any minor any non-intoxicating
beverage; or for any minor to purchase, receive or procure any non-intoxicating
beverage.
(Prior Code, § 3-208) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33 MINORS; POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR BEER.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any minor to be in possession of any non-
intoxicating beverages while such person is on any public street, road, or
highway, or in any public building or place.
(Prior Code, § 3-209) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.34 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It is unlawful for any person, whether a minor or of age, to drink any non-
intoxicating beverage while such person is upon any public street, alley, or
other public highway, or in any public building or other public place within
the town. This section shall not prohibit a person who is of age from drinking
such beverage in a place licensed to see it for consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
§ 112.35 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any place licensed to sell beverages
containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume and not more than 3.2% of alcohol
by weight to sell, dispense, or serve such beverages for consumption on the
premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. or allow such beverages
to be consumed on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
excepting Saturday nights when such beverages may not be sold, dispense,
served, or consumed on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 12:00
p.m. on Sundays; provided, the governing body of any city or town is hereby
authorized to prohibit, by ordinates regularly enacted, the sale, dispensing,
serving, and consumption of beverages between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
and 7:00 a.m. of the following Monday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any place that is a commercial premises to
allow beverages containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume and not more than
3.2% of alcohol by weight to be consumed on such commercial premises between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. As used in this section, COMMERCIAL
PREMISES means a location or establishment at which this type of business or
activity is carried on for nonprofit.
   (C)   No owner, operator, partner, manager, agent, employee, or person
having supervisory control of any establishment licensed to sell low-point beer
for consumption on the premises and subject to the provisions of 37 O.S. § 246
(B) shall:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell to any person or group of persons in the low-
point beer at a price less than the price regularly charged for low-point beer
during the same calendar week, except at private functions not open to the
public;
      (2)   Sell or offer to sell to any person an unlimited number of drinks
of low-point beer during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at
private functions not open to the public; or
      (3)   Sell or offer to sell low-point beer to any person or group of
persons on any one day at price less than those charged the general public on
that day, except that private functions not open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 3-211) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. §§ 213 and 220
§ 112.36 TRANSPORTING NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful to transport any alcoholic beverage, unless the same is:
   (A)   In an unopened original container with seal unbroken, and the original
cap or cork not removed from the container; or
   (B)   In the trunk or other closed compartment or container out of public
view and out of reach of and not accessible to the driver or any occupant of a
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 3-212) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
112.01 through
112.11 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
112.25 through
112.36 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished
as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of §
112.35 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment in the county jail
for a term of not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
In addition, such violation shall be grounds for revocation of any license or
permit for the sale of such beverages, as and in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
CHAPTER 113: MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Section
Medical Marijuana Establishments
   
113.01   Adoption of state statutes and regulations
   
113.02   Business license
   
113.03   Location restrictions
   
113.04   Conditions or operation
   
113.05   Commercial marijuana growing facilities and processing facilities
   
113.06   Marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use
   
113.07   Construction, fire, and building inspections; other requirements
   
113.08   Medical marijuana license
Retail Marijuana Establishments
   
113.20   Definition
   
113.21   Business license and permit requirements
   
113.22   Location restrictions
   
113.23   Conditions of operation
   
113.24   Commercial marijuana growing facilities
   
113.25   Wholesale marijuana facilities
   
113.26   Marijuana storage facilities
   
113.27   Marijuana growing facilities for personal use
   
113.28   Permit inspections and other requirements
 
   
113.99   Penalty
MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 113.01 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES AND REGULATIONS.
   The town hereby adopts by reference all regulations now contained or
hereafter contained in 63 O.S. §§ 420A through 426, concerning medical
marijuana, and any amendments thereto. Further, the town hereby adopts by
reference the final regulations for the state’s Medical Marijuana Control
Program now contained or hereafter contained in O.A.C. 310:681, and any
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 113.02 BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   All operators of marijuana establishments are required to obtain a
business license from the Town Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to
Chapter 110 of this code of ordinances, which is applicable to all businesses.
   (B)   A business license will not be granted to any applicant where the
proposed location is within a restricted area as hereinafter set forth or the
proposed location is within a residentially zoned area.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A business license will not be granted to any applicant holding a
state-issued dispensary license where the proposed location is within 1,000
feet of any private or public school or any other location prohibited by state
law or regulations.
   (B)   For the distance requirements outlined in this section, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest door of the parcel of land on which the use described in division (A)
above is located to the nearest door of the building or unit in which the
proposed dispensary would be located.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 CONDITIONS OR OPERATION.
   (A)   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   (B)   The retail establishment must collect the applicable sales tax on all
sales.
   (C)   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
business license.
   (D)   It is the intent of the town that nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to:
      (1)   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a
public nuisance;
      (2)   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      (3)   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES AND PROCESSING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Commercial marijuana growing and/or processing facilities are hereby
allowed within the town boundaries of the town under the conditions that the
facility must acquire a business license from the Town Clerk-Treasurer as
provided in §
113.02 and shall not be placed in an area which is zoned for residential
purposes.
   (B)   The facility must be constructed in such a manner that the growing
and/or processing of the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the public from a
public right-of-way.
   (C)   The growing and/or processing area including any lighting, plumbing,
chemical use, or storage, or electrical components used shall comply with town
building, electrical, plumbing, and fire codes.
   (D)   Growing and/processing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner
that constitutes a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if
growing and/or processing marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor,
explosion, combustion, chemical discharge, or vibration that is detrimental to
public health, safety, or welfare or interferes with the reasonable enjoyment
of life and property.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL MEDICAL USE.
   (A)   Only persons holding a patient or caregiver license issued by the
state’s Medical Marijuana Authority pursuant to 63 O.S. § 420(A) may grow
marijuana for personal medical use.
   (B)   A patient license holder may possess no more than the amounts of
plants, seedlings, and marijuana products authorized by 63 O.S. § 420(A)(1)
through (A)(7).
   (C)   A licensed caregiver may grow plants for patient license holders as
allowed by state law and each plant grown by a caregiver must be clearly
labeled with the patient license holder’s patient license number.
   (D)   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right-of-way.
   (E)   The growing and/or processing area including any lighting, plumbing,
or electrical components used shall comply with town building and fire codes.
The growing and/or processing area must be properly ventilated so as not to
create humidity, mold, or other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed
1,000 watts per light. The use of gas products (CO2, butane, and the like) or
CO2 and ozone generators in the growing area is prohibited.
   (F)   The growing and/or processing of marijuana shall not be conducted in a
manner that constitutes a public nuisance. Marijuana grown for personal use
shall not be extracted using an extraction process which uses combustible
materials, including but not limited to, butane and alcohol. A public nuisance
may be deemed to exist if growing and/or processing marijuana produces light,
glare, heat, noise, odor, explosion, combustion, chemical discharge, or
vibration that is detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or
interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (G)   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is
grown and/or processed shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and
functioning cooking, eating, sleeping, and sanitation/bathing facilities with
proper ingress and egress.
   (H)   Cultivated marijuana must be used exclusively pursuant to a valid
state-issued medical marijuana license.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 CONSTRUCTION, FIRE, AND BUILDING INSPECTIONS; OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All premises outlined in §
113.02 will be subject to inspections as required of all facilities, by an
individual authorized by the town, prior to issuance, where new construction or
remodeling occurs, per the town code of ordinances. Building permits, including
construction, electrical, plumbing, and such other permits, including fire
inspections are required by the town code of ordinances.
   (B)   All inspections prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the Town Inspector.
   (C)   The applicant will be required to be present during any inspections.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 MEDICAL MARIJUANA LICENSE.
   (A)   Adoption of state statutes and rules. The town hereby adopts by
reference all regulations now contained or hereafter contained in 63 O.S. §§
420A through 426 concerning medical marijuana, and any amendments thereto.
Further, the town hereby adopts by reference the final rules for the state’s
Medical Marijuana Control Program, now contained or hereafter contained in
O.A.C. 310:681 and any amendments thereto.
   (B)   Cultivation of marijuana for personal medical use. A person in
possession of a state-issued medical marijuana patient license or caregiver
license shall be able to legally possess marijuana on his, her, or their person
and in their legally zoned and occupied full-time permanent private residence,
and cultivate marijuana for personal medical use, in quantities as allowed by
applicable state statutes and rules. The following regulations shall apply to
the cultivation of medical marijuana for personal use as an accessory use
within the town.
      (1)   All homegrown medical marijuana plants shall be grown in such a
manner to be accessible only to the patient or caregiver.
      (2)   If grown outdoors, plants shall be enclosed on all sides by an
opaque fence or wall with a minimum height of six feet and shall be secured at
all times with a commercial quality lock and key that is accessible only to the
patient or caregiver.
      (3)   No marijuana plants, whether grown indoors or outdoors, shall be
visible from any street or public right-of-way.
      (4)   All indoor or outdoor areas used for medical marijuana growth shall
comply with all applicable codes as adopted by the town.
      (5)   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is
grown for personal medical use shall remain at all times a residence, with
legal and functioning cooking, eating, sleeping, and sanitation/bathing
facilities with proper ingress and egress.
   (C)   Restriction on smoking of medical marijuana products. Smoking of
medical marijuana products shall be restricted as set forth in 63 O.S. §§ 1-
1521 et seq., commonly referred to as the “Smoking in Public Places and Indoor
Workplaces Act.”
   (D)   Public intoxication prohibited. Any person who shall be under the
influence of medical marijuana or any other medical marijuana product at a
level that presents a danger to others or creates a disturbance of the peace in
or upon any public or private road, in any vehicle, any public place or
building, at any public gathering, place accessible to the public or open to
being viewed by others, shall be guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Medical marijuana waste disposal. All medical marijuana waste shall be
stored, managed, and disposed of in accordance with all applicable local and
state statutes and rules.
   (F)   Non-medical marijuana. The possession, use, cultivation, distribution,
or transportation, including growing, manufacturing, extracting, or delivering
of any marijuana or marijuana derived product, with the exception of those
products defined in 63 O.S. § 2-101(23), in any form by any person or
establishment, unless otherwise licensed by the state for medical purposes and
verified by possession of a state issued medical marijuana license, shall be
illegal within the town and regulated pursuant to the Uniform Controlled
Dangerous Substances Act of the state, hereby adopted by reference.
   (G)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. Except as otherwise provided by the
Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act of the state and 63 O.S. §§ 420A
through 426, inclusive concerning medical marijuana, it shall be unlawful for
any person to possess drug paraphernalia.
   (H)   Town property. Smoking or using marijuana shall be prohibited on all
town property including vehicles, buildings, parks, or other facilities.
   (I)   Marijuana clubs. Marijuana clubs are not allowed, as provided below,
to wit:
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to conduct or maintain a marijuana
club by himself, herself, or themself or by associating with others, or in any
manner aid, assist, or abet in conducting or maintaining a marijuana club.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to conduct or maintain a public place
where marijuana is held or stored, except as provided for a licensee under
state law, or where consumption of marijuana is permitted.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         MARIJUANA CLUB. A club, association, or other business, for profit or
otherwise, that conducts or maintains a premise for the primary or incidental
purpose of providing a location where members or other persons may keep or
consume marijuana.
         PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which admission is charged or for which any
pecuniary gain is realized by the owner or operator of such place.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 113.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS. Any retail marijuana establishment licensed
by the state.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-17-2018)
§ 113.21 BUSINESS LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All operators of retail marijuana establishments are required to
obtain a retail marijuana establishment permit and a business license from the
Development Services Director.
   (B)   The retail marijuana establishment permit fee shall be $600 per year.
The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering costs related to
licensing, inspection, administration, and enforcement of retail marijuana
establishments.
   (C)   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is located outside a commercially zoned
area of the corporate town limits.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-17-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.22 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A retail marijuana establishment permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be located within 1,000 feet of any
of the following uses:
      (1)   A private or public preschool, elementary, secondary, vocational,
or trade school, college or university;
      (2)   Any library or museum;
      (3)   Any public playground;
      (4)   Any child care center;
      (5)   Any place of worship or religious assembly;
      (6)   Any public park, pool, or recreation facility;
      (7)   Any juvenile or adult halfway house, correctional facility, or
substance abuse rehabilitation or treatment center;
      (8)   Any residentially zoned district; or
      (9)   Within 1,000 feet of another medical marijuana or retail marijuana
establishment.
   (B)   For the distance requirements outlined in this section, the distances
described shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the
nearest property line of the parcel of land on which the above described use is
located to the nearest property line of the building or unit in which the
proposed retail marijuana establishment would be located.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-17-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.23 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Buildings where marijuana is stored or dispensed must be equipped with
ventilation/air filtration systems so that no odors are detectable off
premises.
   (B)   The retail establishment must collect the appropriate sales tax on all
sales.
   (C)   The hours of operation shall be between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m., Monday through Saturday. Operations shall be closed on Sundays as well as
Christmas, Thanksgiving, Fourth of July, and New Year’s Day.
   (D)   Any violations of this section will result in the revocation of the
retail marijuana establishment permit.
   (E)   It is the intent of the town that nothing in the retail marijuana
establishment ordinance be construed to:
      (1)   Allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers or causes a
public nuisance;
      (2)   Allow the use of marijuana for non-medical purposes; or
      (3)   Allow any activity that is otherwise illegal and not permitted by
state law.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-17-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.24 COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES.
   Commercial marijuana growing facilities are not allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-17-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.25 WHOLESALE MARIJUANA FACILITIES.
   Wholesale marijuana facilities are not allowed within the municipal
boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-17-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.26 MARIJUANA STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Marijuana storage facilities other than in a retail outlet are not allowed
within the municipal boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-17-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.27 MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL USE.
   (A)   All owners of marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use
are required to obtain a permit from the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (B)   Marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use permit fee shall
be $300 per year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses covering
costs related to licensing, inspection, administration, and enforcement of
marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use.
   (C)   All marijuana growing facilities for personal medical use shall be
subject to security provisions as stated herein prior to the granting of a
permit. Failure to comply with security provisions as stated herein will result
in revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Any access or entry point to residential facilities used for marijuana
cultivation for personal medical use must be secured by lock and key or
equivalent, at all times except when the residential facility is actively being
supervised in person by the permit holder.
   (E)   Growing marijuana for personal medical use shall be limited to the
interior of a single private residence.
   (F)   Growing marijuana shall not be visible from the public right-of-way.
   (G)   The growing area including any lighting, plumbing, or electrical
components used shall comply with municipal building and fire codes. The
growing area must be properly ventilated so as not to create humidity, mold, or
other related problems. Lighting shall not exceed 1,000 watts per light. The
use of gas products (CO2, butane, and the like) or CO2 and ozone generators in
the growing area is prohibited.
   (H)   Growing marijuana shall not be conducted in a manner that constitutes
a public nuisance. A public nuisance may be deemed to exist if growing
marijuana produces light, glare, heat, noise, odor, or vibration that is
detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of life and property.
   (I)   The primary use of the residential property in which marijuana is
grown shall remain at all times a residence, with legal and functioning
cooking, eating, sleeping, and sanitation/bathing facilities with proper
ingress and egress. No room shall be used for growing marijuana where such
cultivation will impair or prevent the primary uses of cooking, eating,
sleeping, or sanitation/bathing.
   (J)   If the residence is rented consent of the property owner shall be
obtained in writing prior to any cultivation commencing. This consent must be
evidenced by a signed and notarized statement from the property owner
permitting the growth of marijuana in a residence.
   (K)   Marijuana grown for personal use may not be given, sold, or traded to
a third party.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-17-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.28 PERMIT INSPECTIONS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All permits outlined in this subchapter will be subject to inspection
by an authorized municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   (B)   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the municipal inspector.
   (C)   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   (D)   The smell or noxious odor emitted from smoking or consumption of
marijuana by a person possessing a valid state-issued medical marijuana license
shall be treated as a public nuisance.
   (E)   Smoking or using marijuana shall be prohibited on all town property
including vehicles, buildings, parks, or other facilities.
   (F)   The possession of lighted tobacco, including but not limited to
marijuana in any form is a public nuisance and dangerous to public health and
hereby prohibited when such possession is in any indoor place used by or open
to the public, except where specifically allowed by law.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 9-17-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. Ch. 50 § 1247 and 63 O.S. Ch. 15 § 420
113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
113.08 is guilty of a misdemeanor felony punishable by a fine of $500.
(Ord. 2019-05, passed 10-7-2019)
CHAPTER 114: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   License required for amusement companies
   
114.02   Town Clerk-Treasurer to issue license upon payment of fee; license fee
   
114.03   License not transferrable
   
114.04   Shows, exhibitions, and entertainments
   
114.05   Shooting galleries
   
114.06   Short weights and measures
   
114.07   Billboards
Farmers’ Markets
   
114.20   Definitions
   
114.21   Permitted use
   
114.22   Operating rules
   
114.23   Market manager
   
114.24   Parking
   
114.25   Waste
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR AMUSEMENT COMPANIES.
   It is unlawful for any amusement company, circus, street fair, vaudeville,
theater, or moving picture show to operate within the corporate limits of the
town, unless and until the owner or owners thereof shall obtain a license to
operate such amusements, as are heretofore set forth, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-120) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 114.02 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER TO ISSUE LICENSE UPON PAYMENT OF FEE; LICENSE
FEE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall not issue a license to any person or persons
to operate, maintain, and show any amusement company, street fair, circus,
carnival, vaudeville, or picture show unless and until such person or persons
shall pay for the license. The sum as set by the Board of Trustees per week day
and for each Sunday that the amusement company, carnival, or circus is
intending to operate, and the sums of money for such licenses is to be paid in
advance of the date it is intended to operate the amusement.
(Prior Code, § 9-121) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   That no license granted hereunder shall be assigned or transferred, directly
or indirectly.
(Prior Code, § 9-122) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 SHOWS, EXHIBITIONS, AND ENTERTAINMENTS.
   It is unlawful to show vile, obscene, or immoral moving pictures at any time
or to give any kind of a show, exhibition, or entertainment which is vile,
obscene, or immoral, at any time.
(Prior Code, § 9-123) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 SHOOTING GALLERIES.
   (A)   Every shooting gallery constructed, established, set up, or operated
hereafter shall be constructed, established, set up, and operated in accordance
with the standards, specifications, and requirements of state law and comply
with all the requirements thereof.
   (B)   No shooting gallery shall be operated until a license has been secured
therefor in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of any provision of this section or of any provision of
63 O.S. §§ 701 through 708 shall be deemed an offense against the town, and
shall be punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 9-124) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell, or offer for
sale any food, fuel, clothing, or any other commodity which does not weigh or
measure fully as much, according to standard weights or measures of the state
as the weight or measure for which it is sold or offered.
(Prior Code, § 9-125) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term BILLBOARD shall mean and
include sign boards, signs, bills, billboards, whether metal, wooden, paper, or
other material and any and all other signs regardless of size, of a commercial
nature and character.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place or caused
to be placed or to post or cause to be posted, any billboard, signboard, or
sign of a commercial nature on any property within the limits of the town
without the consent of the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-126) Penalty, see §
114.99
FARMERS’ MARKETS
§ 114.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FARM PRODUCTS. Fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, bee products, flowers,
nursery stock, grain products, eggs, and livestock food products (including
meat, milk, cheese, and other dairy products). All meat at a farmers’ market
must be sold from a licensed mobile.
   FARMERS’ MARKET. An outdoor market at a fixed location, open to the public,
operated by the local government or agency, a nonprofit agency, or LLC or one
or more producers, at which:
      (1)   At least 100% of the vendors sell farm products or value-added farm
products; and
      (2)   Vendors who regularly participate during the market’s hours of
operation are producers, or family members of employees of producers.
   PRODUCER. A person or entity that raises or produces farm products on land
that the person or entity farms and owns, rents, or leases.
   VALUE-ADDED FARM PRODUCT. Any product processed by a producer from a farm
product, such as baked goods, jams, and jellies.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 114.21 PERMITTED USE.
   Farmers’ markets are permitted use designated by the governing board in
downtown commercial business zones, public, and open spaces subject to the
following regulations.
   (A)   Compliance with all laws (e.g., O.A.C. 310:257-1-2; 260). All farmers’
markets and their vendors comply with all federal, state, and local laws and
regulations relating to the operation, use, and enjoyment of the market
premises.
   (B)   Permits and licenses. All farmers’ markets and their vendors receive
all required operating and health permits, licenses, and certificates of
insurance, and these documents shall be in the possession of the farmers’
market manager or the vendors, as applicable, on the site of the farmers’
market during all hours of operation. The town will not charge a permit fee. An
annual permit will be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer or designated officer
to the market manager pending approval by the governing Town Board.
   (C)   Non-compliance. Farmers’ market permit issued under this section may
be suspended/revoked by the Chief of Police or designated officer of reported
non-compliance. After meeting the stated requirements, a new permit will be
issued.
   (D)   Acceptance of payment for food assistance programs. For eligible goods
or products sold, all farmers’ markets and their vendors shall accept all forms
of payment, or shall allow legitimate and duly authorized third party to occupy
space within the farmers’ market area to operate a redemption program by
participation of the federal, state, or local Food Assistance Program (SNAP),
the Women and Infants, and Children (WIC), Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program,
and Senior Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program, all in a manner allowed by and in
conformance with both federal and state laws and regulations, and those laws
and regulations may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-19-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.22 OPERATING RULES.
   All farmers’ markets have an established set of market guidelines and
operating rules addressing the governance of the farmers’ market, hours of
operation, maintenance, insurance, security requirements and responsibilities,
and appointment of a market manager pending the approval by the governing
board.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-19-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.23 MARKET MANAGER.
   All farmers’ markets have a market manager authorized to direct the
operations of all vendors participating in the market place during the hours of
operation.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-19-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.24 PARKING.
   (A)   All farmers’ markets shall provide for a minimum of one vehicle
parking space for each vendor stall.
   (B)   All farmers’ markets shall provide for one parking space for shoppers
per each vendor stall.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-19-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.25 WASTE.
   All farmers’ markets provide for composting, recycling, and waste removal in
accordance with all town codes. The farmers’ market manager is responsible for
ensuring that the site is restored to a neat condition by no later than the end
of the farmers’ market day.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-19-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who engages in any business,
profession, trade, or occupation, or exercises any privileges, for which a
license or permit is required by §§
114.01 through
114.07, without a valid license or permit as thereby required, or who otherwise
violates any provision of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-127)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE, AND MORALS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Attempts to commit an offense
   
130.02   Aiding in an offense
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
town, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself.
(Prior Code, § 10-101) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 AIDING IN AN OFFENSE.
   When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a
particular offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who
counsels or aids another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or
misdemeanor, and punishable in the same manner as the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this title is punishable by fine or
imprisonment as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Petit larceny prohibited
   
131.02   Injuring automobiles and other vehicles
   
131.03   Destroying or injuring buildings and other property
   
131.04   Placing signs on property of another
   
131.05   Throwing or shooting at persons or property
   
131.06   Tampering with or damaging public utilities
   
131.07   Unlawful intrusion upon land
   
131.08   Illegal entrance
   
131.09   Throwing advertising on street
   
131.10   Throwing injurious substances
   
131.11   Injury to plants and trees
   
131.12   Public streets and trees
   
131.13   Trespass prohibited
   
131.14   Parking on property of another
   
131.15   Interference with fire hydrants
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PETIT LARCENY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   PETIT LARCENY is the taking of personal property of value not
exceeding $50 accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent to deprive
another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property from the
person of another.
   (B)   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person who pumps gasoline or diesel, into the fuel tank of a
vehicle, or containers designed to transport gasoline or diesel, and leaves the
premises where the gasoline was pumped without making payment for the gasoline
or diesel shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-201) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Gasoline pump thievery, see 21 O.S. Ch. 68, § 1740
   Petit larceny defined, see 21 O.S. §§ 1704 and 1706
§ 131.02 INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest,
enter, occupy, loiter in, or injure any automobile or other vehicle belonging
to another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or any other person
entitled to its use.
(Prior Code, § 10-203) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint,
mark, write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement,
bill placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-204) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot, or other
object into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he, she, or
they is likely to hit another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to
throw or shoot any stone, shot, or other object at any person, vehicle,
structure, electric light or another property of another (whether public or
private), except in case where such is done in defense of oneself, of another
person or of property.
(Prior Code, § 10-205) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire,
or other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire, or other conductor carrying gas,
water, or electricity and belonging to a public utility (whether publicly or
privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him, her, or them to consume or
use the gas, water or electricity without it passing through the meter or any
other way so as to evade payment therefor. It is also unlawful for any person
to damage, molest, tamper with, or destroy any pipe, line, wire, meter, or
other part of any public utility, including any telegraph or telephone system.
(Prior Code, § 10-206) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND.
   It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of
land within the town without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or
to erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty, or other structure without
such license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of
any street, alley, or avenue of the town, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other
structure without authority of law of ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-207) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 ILLEGAL ENTRANCE.
   (A)   It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or
into an area or structure on such property (whether such property, area, or
structure is public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by
signs or any notice or when the property, area, or structure is enclosed,
except when such entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit
consent of the owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or
ordinance.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to remain on the property of another
after having been given notice, written or verbal, to leave by the owner or
person in charge.
(Prior Code, § 10-208) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave, or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left, or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular, or other advertising matter.
(Prior Code, § 10-209) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw
upon the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive
or other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine,
with intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal.
(Prior Code, § 10-210) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 INJURY TO PLANTS AND TREES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully and without authority cut,
pull, pluck, or otherwise injure any flower, flowering plants, shrubs, or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the town, or wilfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut, or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or willfully injure or destroy
and stand, bench, seat, or other property situated upon such park or ground.
   (B)   Any person violating this section, upon conviction, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-211) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully or wantonly cut, deface, or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the town;
      (2)   Attach any guy wires; telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or
any wire to any live tree;
      (3)   Dig any hole, ditch, or trench in any public street, road, avenue,
or alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under
the supervision or control of the town;
      (4)   Take or remove any dirt, earth, or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the town; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb, or gutter therein; or
      (5)   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the Town Inspector to do so.
   (B)   Any such digging, removing, or driveway connection shall be done under
the supervision of the Street Superintendent or Town Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 10-212) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.13 TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property other than public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. The property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
      TRESPASS. Each actual entry upon the premises of an owner or other person
in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the implied consent
of the owner or other person in lawful possession. TRESPASS shall also mean
remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in lawful possession
after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or the agent, or
employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of the premises.
TRESPASS shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private property at
any time other than during posted hours of business operation after having been
directed to vacate such premises by a police officer. The provisions of this
definition shall not apply to persons, including employees, whose presence of
such premises is authorized by the owner or by a person in lawful possession of
such premises nor shall the provisions of this section apply unless hours of
business operations are posted upon such premises. TRESPASS shall also be
defined as the act of returning to private property before the posted time of
opening for business operation on the next business day after having been
directed to vacate such premises under the terms of this definition.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private property.
(Prior Code, § 10-213) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.14 PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard, or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge or by
authority of law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-214) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.15 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person except one duly authorized by the town
utility personnel or a member of the Fire Department to open, turn on or off,
interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything with, any fire
hydrant or stopcock belonging to the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire hydrant
by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt, or other thing, or in any
other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 10-215) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
131.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $500, or confinement in the county jail for a period
of not more than 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 10-201)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
Section
   
132.01   Disturbing the peace
   
132.02   Insulting signs, literature, or language
   
132.03   Fireworks regulated
   
132.04   Storing or keeping explosives
   
132.05   Carrying weapons; exceptions
   
132.06   Reckless conduct
   
132.07   Discharging firearms; exceptions
   
132.08   Loud noise or music; amplified sound
   
132.09   Disorderly conduct
   
132.10   Assault and/or battery
§ 132.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   DISTURBING THE PEACE is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      (1)   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent, or insulting language or conduct;
      (2)   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      (4)   Lewdly exposing one’s person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      (5)   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or
not at any other person or persons, either in anger or otherwise;
      (6)   Holding an unlawful assembly of two or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      (7)   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by
rude, indecent, or improper behavior, by profane, improper, or loud language,
or in any other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing
distance thereof;
      (8)   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      (9)   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent, or improper behavior, by
profane, improper, or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      (10)   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public.
(Prior Code, § 10-301) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE, OR LANGUAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation within the town to
display any sign, emblem, badge, flag, or device, which in its common
acceptance is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the town, and
which is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach
of the peace or an assault.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully use, utter, publish,
circulate, or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or insulting language
or literature where:
      (1)   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      (2)   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault.
(Prior Code, § 10-302) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.03 FIREWORKS REGULATED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, FIREWORKS shall have the meaning
prescribed by 68 O.S. § 1622.
   (B)   The purchase, sale, offer for sale, use, discharge, ignition, or
possession of fireworks within the corporate limits of the town is hereby
prohibited except for:
      (1)   Authorized public displays approved by the town in accordance with
its Fire Prevention Code;
      (2)   No person shall offer fireworks for sale to residents of the state
at retail before June 15 or after July 5 and before December 15 or after
January 1 of each year; and
      (3)   Ignition, use, or discharge may take place on June 15 through July
5, and December 31 and January 1 of each year. Inside the town limits, hours of
ignition, use, or discharge will be Sunday through Thursday excluding July 3
and 4 between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. and Friday and Saturday,
and including (July 3 and 4) between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m.
December 31 and January 1 between the hours of 9:00 p.m. on the 31 and 12:30
a.m. on January 1, of each year.
   (C)   No sales or stands may take place on town property without approval by
the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 10-303) (Ord. passed 10-16-2000; Ord. 2020-02, passed 2-3-2020)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Bottle rockets prohibited by state law, see 68 O.S. § 1624
   State fireworks licenses required, see 68 O.S. §§ 1621 et seq.
§ 132.04 STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the town any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance of any kind without having first complied with the laws of the state
for the purpose of selling, storing, or keeping such items.
(Prior Code, § 10-304) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.05 CARRYING WEAPONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his, her, or
their person any pistol, revolver, dagger, Bowie knife, switch-blade knife,
spring-type knife, metal knuckle, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument except when doing so in line of duty or as may be permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 10-305) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   State Firearms Act, see 21 O.S. §§ 1289.1 et seq.
§ 132.06 RECKLESS CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in
his, her, or their possession any shotgun, rifle, or pistol, such actions
consisting of creating a situation of unreasonable risk and probability of
death or great bodily harm to another, and demonstrating a conscious disregard
for the safety of another person.
(Prior Code, § 10-306) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.07 DISCHARGING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall discharge any species of firearm, in the town except when
doing so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of
another person, or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-307) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.08 LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC; AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any part
of the town by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated, any
contrivance, whether electric or not, any motor vehicle, or any other device,
with or without a loud speaker, in such a manner as to emit loud music, noise
or words. However, this section shall not prohibit religious bodies from
playing chimes, bells, carillons, or other religious music.
(Prior Code, § 10-308) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.09 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISORDERLY CONDUCT means a course of conduct by a person who:
      (1)   Causes public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, or recklessly
creates a risk thereof, by:
         (a)   Engaging in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or threatening
behavior;
         (b)   Making an unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or addressing abusive language to any person present;
         (c)   Dispersing any lawful procession or meeting of persons, not
being a peace officer of the state and without lawful authority; or
         (d)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition which
serves no legitimate purpose.
      (2)   Engages with at least one other person in a course of disorderly
conduct as defined in division (1) above, which is likely to cause substantial
harm or serious inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, and refuses or knowingly
fails to obey an order to disperse, made by a peace officer to the
participants.
(Prior Code, § 10-309)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 21 O.S. § 1321.9
§ 132.10 ASSAULT AND/OR BATTERY.
   (A)   An assault is any intentional, willful, or unlawful attempt or offer
with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to another.
   (B)   A battery is any intentional, willful, or unlawful use of force or
violence upon the person of another, or by making any physical contact with
another without consent.
   (C)   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the jurisdiction of the town. Any person committing an assault or an assault
and battery within the jurisdiction of the town shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, WELFARE, AND MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Public intoxication; possession, and transportation of alcohol
   
133.02   Drugs prohibited
   
133.03   Prostitution
   
133.04   Disorderly houses
   
133.05   Nudity; improper dress; indecent exposure
   
133.06   Obscene conduct
   
133.07   Vagrancy
   
133.08   Curfew for minors
   
133.09   Sleeping in public
   
133.10   Begging
   
133.11   Harmful deception
   
133.12   False or bogus checks
   
133.13   Swindling
   
133.14   Possession of tobacco and vapor products by minors
   
133.15   Social hosting
   
133.16   Neglect or refusal to compel child to attend school
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 PUBLIC INTOXICATION; POSSESSION, AND TRANSPORTATION OF ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Public intoxication and drinking prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any
street, alley, or other public place in the town in a state of intoxication. It
is unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating or non-intoxicating liquor or
beverage, as defined by 37 O.S. § 163.1, upon or in any street, alley, or other
public place within the town. It is unlawful to use, sell or furnish to another
any illegal drug or narcotic in any place in the town except as legally
prescribed by a physician.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, a STATE OF INTOXICATION means the
condition in which a person is under the influence of any intoxicating, non-
intoxicating, spirituous, vinous, or malt liquors, or of any narcotic or drug,
to such extent as to deprive the person of his, her, or their full physical or
mental power, or in which a person is a danger to himself, herself, or
themself, or others.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
   (B)   Possession; transportation of intoxicating and non-intoxicating
beverages.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to be in
possession of any intoxicating or non-intoxicating alcoholic beverage while
such person is upon any public street, road or highway or in any public place
within the town limits.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age
of 21 years to permit such person to be in possession of an intoxicating
alcoholic beverage.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street, or alley any intoxicating or non-
intoxicating beverage except in the original container which shall not have
been opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not have been removed
unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear
trunk or compartment shall include the spare tire compartment in a station
wagon or panel truck or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the
driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section INTOXICATING BEVERAGE and NON-
INTOXICATING BEVERAGE shall be as defined in §
112.01.
(Prior Code, § 10-402)
   (C)   Intoxicating liquors/non-intoxicating liquors to include low-point
beer.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Barter, sell, give away, or otherwise furnish to another any
intoxicating or non-intoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind except as
permitted by law;
         (b)   Have in possession or under control any intoxicating or non-
intoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by law, or to transport or
in any manner convey from place to place in the town any intoxicating or non-
intoxicating liquor or beverage except as permitted by law;
         (c)   Loiter in a place where intoxicating or non-intoxicating liquor
is sold, bartered, given away, or otherwise furnished contrary to law;
         (d)   Keep, maintain, aid, or abet in keeping or maintaining a place
where intoxicating or non-intoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given away, or
otherwise furnished in violation of law; or
         (e)   Sell, barter, or give to any person under 21 years of age any
low-point beer, as defined in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   LOW-POINT BEER means and includes beverages containing more than
0.5% alcohol by volume, and not more than 3.2% alcohol by weight, including but
not limited to beer or cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic
fermentation of an infusion of barley or other grain, malt, or similar
products.
(Prior Code, § 10-403)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 DRUGS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess a
controlled dangerous substance unless such substance was obtained directly, or
pursuant to a valid prescription or order from a practitioner, while acting in
the course of his, her, or their professional practice, or expect as otherwise
authorized by 63 O.S. Ch. 2, Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act,
Version 2:
   (A)   Manufacture, grow, harvest, cultivate, propagate, plant, compound,
convert, produce, process, test, pack, repack, store, distribute, dispense,
possess, or possesses with intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense any
schedule 1, schedule 2, schedule 3, schedule 4, or schedule 5 drug; or
   (B)   Use, have, inject, ingest, inhale, otherwise introduce into the human
body or possess marijuana or any other schedule 1, schedule 2, schedule 3,
schedule 4, or schedule 5 drug.
(Prior Code, § 10-404) (Ord. 2017-06, passed 7-3-2017) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be a prostitute;
      (2)   Solicit, entice, or procure another to commit or engage in any act
of prostitution;
      (3)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (4)   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution;
      (5)   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution; or
      (6)   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of
prostitution in the limits of town.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION. The granting of the right of use or
the leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice
of prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
      PROSTITUTION. The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for
hire or money.
      SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES. The soliciting, inviting, inducing,
directing, or transporting of a person to any place with the intention of
promoting prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 10-405)
§ 133.04 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DISORDERLY HOUSE. Any structure or vehicle by which the peace, comfort,
health, welfare, or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the people
therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
         (a)   The sale, distribution, possession, or use of any controlled
dangerous substance, the sale, distribution, possession, or use of which is
declared unlawful by state statutes;
         (b)   The violation of any of the ordinances of the town or statutes
of the state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages including beer containing more than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
         (c)   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state
statute or town ordinance including, but not limited to, soliciting for
purposes of prostitution; or
         (d)   The violation of any state statute or town ordinance prohibiting
gambling.
(Prior Code, § 10-406)
   (B)   Maintaining or leasing a disorderly house.
      (1)   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet, or assist in
keeping and maintaining a disorderly house.
      (2)   No owner, lessee, lessor, or other person, partnership, or
corporation having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sub-lease, or
otherwise permit the use of same for the purpose of keeping therein any
disorderly house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building,
structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home, or recreational vehicle is so occupied
as a disorderly house, no persons, partnership, or corporation shall continue
to grant permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house.
(Prior Code, § 10-407)
   (C)   Residents and visitors to disorderly house. No person shall knowingly
reside in, enter into, or remain in a disorderly house. In any prosecution for
violation of this section, the town shall have the burden to prove such
knowledge by direct evidence only and not by circumstantial evidence. This
division (C) shall not apply to physicians or officers in the discharge of
their professional or official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-408)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 NUDITY; IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in any public place in the town in a state of nudity;
   (B)   Appear in any public place in the town in any offensive, indecent, or
lewd dress; or
   (C)   Make an indecent public exposure of his, her, or their person.
(Prior Code, § 10-409) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter or performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance.
      DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
      MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, or other
pictorial representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording,
transcription or mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction or any other
articles, equipment, or machines.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area
with less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male
genitals in a discernible turgid state.
      OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
         (a)   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity,
or excretion;
         (b)   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner
sexual conduct regulated by 21 O.S.; and
         (c)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
      PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance, or other
exhibition performed before an audience.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
      PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel, or assist.
      SERVICE TO PATRONS. The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages; including but not limited to
hosting, hat checking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiting, and entertaining.
(Prior Code, § 10-410)
   (B)   Prohibited obscene conduct.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Knowingly disseminate, sell, offer for sale, publish, display,
distribute, make available to the public, or buy any obscene material;
         (b)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements, and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal;
         (c)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
         (d)   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to
public view:
            1.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region, or pubic hair region;
            2.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region, or
pubic hair region;
            3.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof; or
            4.   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed
unlawful acts.
      (2)   Each complete or partial display or other material exhibition of
any motion picture film or other material shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a
projectionist, assistant projectionist, usher, or cashier provided such person
has no financial interest in the motion picture theater so long as that person
is not acting as director or manager of the theater.
(Prior Code, § 10-411)
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the town.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a VAGRANT means any person who
loiters or remains in or wanders about, a public or private place for any of
the following purposes:
      (1)   Gambling with cards, dice or other gambling paraphernalia;
      (2)   Engaging in prostitution or soliciting prostitution or soliciting
for an act of lewdness;
      (3)   Engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any building, property,
or automobile of another;
      (4)   Injuring, destroying, molesting, or defacing any property of
another;
      (5)   Assaulting any person;
      (6)   Begging or soliciting alms, provided that this section shall not
apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious, charitable, or
eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such organizations; or
      (7)   Selling, purchasing, trading, or otherwise exchanging, procuring,
or making available illegal drugs or contraband.
(Prior Code, § 10-412) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 21 years who is in loco parentis to
a minor.
      GUARDIAN. Any person or other than a parent who has legal guardianship of
a minor.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground, or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
café, theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center, and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any minor to remain, wander, stroll, or play
in any public place on foot or to cruise about without a set destination in any
vehicle in, or upon any public place in the town during the following months
and at the following times:
         (a)   School months. Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
Fridays and Saturdays; and
         (b)   Summer months. Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
Sunday through Thursday, and between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Fridays and
Saturdays.
      (2)   The only exceptions to the above are as follows:
         (a)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian,
or other adult having custody or control of said minor child;
         (b)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed or permitted by the parent, guardian, or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor; or
         (c)   Where the presence of such minor is connected with or required
by some legitimate employment, trade, profession, or occupation.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation operating or
having charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of
minors between the hours of curfew designated in division (B) above.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, custodian, or other adult
person having custody or control of any minor to suffer or permit or by
inefficient control to allow such person to be on any public place within the
town between the hours of curfew designated in division (B) above. The
provisions of this section do not apply if:
      (1)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian, or other
adult person having the care, custody, or control of the minor;
      (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed by his, her, or their parent, guardian, custodian, or other
adult having the care and custody of the minor; or
      (3)   The parent, guardian, or other adult person herein has made a
missing person notification to the town’s Police Department.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees may permit by resolution or motion procedures
for advance notice or registration with the town of special events or functions
sponsored by churches, schools, clubs, or other organizations which require
minors to be out at a later time. The Board of Trustees may also prescribe the
procedures for taking into custody minors found in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-413) (Ord. passed 11-1-1999) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 SLEEPING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m., to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on any property
of another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or person in
charge of such place.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to loiter on or about the premises of any
public or private school or other public building, or in or about a depot of a
public carrier.
(Prior Code, § 10-414) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.10 BEGGING.
   It is unlawful for any person to beg alms for any person, organization, or
agency except an organization or agency, public or private, whose purpose or
one of whose purposes is to aid persons in need.
(Prior Code, § 10-415) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.11 HARMFUL DECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm, or injury of the person deceived or
of a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(Prior Code, § 10-418) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.12 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to
obtain or attempt to obtain from any person, firm, or corporation, any money,
property, or valuable thing of the value of $50 or less by means of any false
or bogus check or by any other written or printed or engraved instrument or
spurious coin.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
       FALSE OR BOGUS CHECK. Includes checks or orders given for money or
property which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to
pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof.
   (C)   The making, drawing, issuing, or delivering of a check, draft, or
order, payment of which is refused by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence
of intent to defraud and the knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit with,
such bank or other depository.
   (D)   Such maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee the amount due
thereon, together with the protest fees, and the check or order shall be
presented for payment within 30 days after same is delivered and accepted.
(Prior Code, § 10-419) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.13 SWINDLING.
   It is unlawful to get money or property from any other person or persons or
businesses under false pretenses, deception, cheating, or by any other
fraudulent act.
(Prior Code, § 10-420) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.14 POSSESSION OF TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS BY MINORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person who is under 18 years of age to purchase,
accept receipt of, or have in their possession a tobacco or vapor product, or
to present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false,
fraudulent or not actually his, her, or their own, for the purpose of
purchasing or receiving any tobacco or vapor product. Provided, however that it
shall not be unlawful for such person to handle such tobacco or vapor product
when it is required in the performance of such person’s duties.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, or furnish in any
manner any tobacco product or vapor product to another person who is under 18
years of age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product or vapor product
on behalf of any such person. It shall not be unlawful for an employee under 18
years of age to handle tobacco products or vapor products when required in the
performance of the employee’s duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-421) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco Act, see 37 O.S. Ch. 4, § 600.4(A) and
(B)
   Similar provisions, see 37 O.S. § 600.3
§ 133.15 SOCIAL HOSTING.
   No person shall knowingly and willfully permit any individual under 21 years
of age who is an invitee to the person’s residence, any building, structure, or
room owned, occupied, leased or otherwise procured by the person or on any land
owned, occupied, leased, or otherwise procured by the person, to possess or
consume any alcoholic beverage, any low-point beer, any controlled dangerous
substance as defined in the Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, or any
combination thereof, in such place.
(Prior Code, § 10-422) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.16 NEGLECT OR REFUSAL TO COMPEL CHILD TO ATTEND SCHOOL.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian, or other person
having custody of a child who is over the age of five years, and under the age
of 18 years, to neglect or refuse to cause or compel such child to attend and
comply with the rules of some public, private, or other school, unless other
means of education are provided for the full term the schools of the district
are in session or the child is excused as provided in this section.
      (2)   One-half day of kindergarten shall be required of all children five
years of age or older unless the child is excused from kindergarten attendance
as provided in this section. A child who is five years of age shall be excused
from kindergarten attendance until the next school year after the child is six
years of age if a parent, guardian, or other person having custody of the child
notifies the superintendent of the district where the child is a resident by
certified mail prior to enrollment in kindergarten, or at any time during the
first school year that the child is required to attend kindergarten pursuant to
this section, of election to withhold the child from kindergarten until the
next school year after the child is six years of age.
      (3)   A kindergarten program shall be directed toward developmentally
appropriate objectives for such children. The program shall require that any
teacher employed on and after January 1, 1993, to teach a kindergarten program
within the public school system shall be certified in early childhood
education. All teachers hired to teach a kindergarten program within the public
school system prior to January 1, 1993, shall be required to obtain
certification in early childhood education on or before the 1996-1997 school
year in order to continue to teach a kindergarten program.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any child who is over the age of 12 years and
under the age of 18 years, and who has not finished four years of high school
work, to neglect or refuse to attend and comply with the rules of some public,
private, or other school, or receive an education by other means for the full
term the schools of the district are in session. Provided, that this section
shall not apply:
      (1)   If any child is prevented from attending school by reason of mental
or physical disability, to be determined by the Board of Education of the
district upon a certificate of the school physician or public health physician,
or, if no such physician is available, a duly licensed and practicing
physician;
      (2)   If any child is excused from attendance at school, due to an
emergency, by the principal teacher of the school in which such child is
enrolled, at the request of the parent, guardian, custodian or other person
having control of such child;
      (3)   If any child who has attained his, her, or their sixteenth birthday
is excused from attending school by written, joint agreement between:
         (a)   The school administrator of the school district where the child
attends school; and
         (b)   The parent, guardian, or custodian of the child. Provided,
further, that no child shall be excused from attending school by such joint
agreement between a school administrator and the parent, guardian, or custodian
of the child unless and until it has been determined that such action is for
the best interest of the child and/or the community, and that said child shall
thereafter be under the supervision of the parent, guardian, or custodian until
the child has reached the age of 18 years;
      (4)   If any child is excused from attending school for the purpose of
observing religious holy days if before the absence, the parent, guardian, or
person having custody or control of the student submits a written request for
the excused absence. The school district shall excuse a student pursuant to
this division (B) for the days on which the religious holy days are observed
and for the days on which the student must travel to and from the site where
the student will observe the holy days; or
      (5)   If any child is excused from attending school for the purpose of
participating in a military funeral honors ceremony upon approval of the school
principal.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the attendance officer to enforce the
provisions of this section. In the prosecution of a parent, guardian, or other
person having custody of a child for violation of any provision of this
section, it shall be an affirmative defense that the parent, guardian, or other
person having custody of the child has made substantial and reasonable efforts
to comply with the compulsory attendance requirements of this section but is
unable to cause the child to attend school. If the Court determines the
affirmative defense is valid, it shall dismiss the complaint against the
parent, guardian, or other person having custody of the child and shall notify
the school attendance officer who shall refer the child to the District
Attorney for the county in which the child resides for the filing of a Child in
Need of Supervision petition against the child pursuant to the state’s Juvenile
Code.
   (D)   At the trial of any person charged with violating the provisions of
this section, the attendance records of the child or ward may be presented in
Court by any authorized employee of the school district.
   (E)   The Court may order the parent, guardian, or other person having
custody of the child to perform community service in lieu of the fine set forth
in this section. The Court may require that all or part of the community
service be performed for a public school district.
   (F)   The Court may order as a condition of a deferred sentence or as a
condition of sentence upon conviction of the parent, guardian, or other person
having custody of the child any conditions as the Court considers necessary to
obtain compliance with school attendance requirements. The conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Verifying attendance of the child with the school;
      (2)   Attending meetings with school officials;
      (3)   Taking the child to school;
      (4)   Taking the child to the bus stop;
      (5)   Attending school with the child;
      (6)   Undergoing an evaluation for drug, alcohol, or other substance
abuse and following the recommendations of the evaluator; and
      (7)   Taking the child for drug, alcohol, or other substance abuse
evaluation and following the recommendations of the evaluator, unless excused
by the Court.
(Prior Code, § 10-423) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Neglect or refusal to compel child to attend school, see 70 O.S. Ch. 10, §
105
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   When a person violates §
133.14(A), the town shall assess such person a fine of $100 for a first offense
within a one-year period, and a fine of $200 for a second or subsequent offense
within a one-year period.
      (2)   Fines for violating §
133.14(B) are as follows:
         (a)   First offense shall be $100 plus costs;
         (b)   Second offense shall be $200 plus costs, if within a two-year
period; and
         (c)   Third offense shall be $300 plus costs, if within a two-year
period.
(Prior Code, § 10-421)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of the provision of §
133.15 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor for the first offense and be
punished by a fine of not more than $500.
      (2)   Any person who within ten years after previous convictions of a
violation:
         (a)   Of §
133.15;
         (b)   Of the provisions of any law of another state prohibiting the
offense provided for in §
133.15; or
         (c)   In a Municipal Criminal Court of record for the violation of a
municipal ordinance prohibiting the offense provided for in §
133.15, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor for the first offense and be
punished by a fine of not more than $500.
      (3)   Any person who within ten years after two or more previous
convictions of a violation:
         (a)   Of §
133.15;
         (b)   Of the provisions of any law of another state prohibiting the
offense provided for in §
133.15; or
         (c)   In a Municipal Criminal Court of record for the violation of a
municipal ordinance prohibiting the offense provided for in §
133.15, Shall be deemed guilty of a felony and shall be punished by a fine of
not more than $2,500, or by imprisonment in the custody of the Department of
Corrections for not more than five years, or both such fine and imprisonment.
      (4)   Any person who violates §
133.15, and such actions cause great bodily injury or death of a person, shall,
in addition to any other penalty provided by law, be guilty of a felony,
punishable by imprisonment in the custody of the Department of Corrections for
not more than five years, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 10-422)
   (D)   Any parent, guardian, custodian, child, or other person violating any
of the provisions of §
133.16 upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished
as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, a fine of not less than $25 nor more than
$50, or imprisonment for not more than five days, or both such fine and
imprisonment;
      (2)   For the second offense, a fine of not less than $50 nor more than
$100, or imprisonment for not more than ten days, or both such fine and
imprisonment; and
      (3)   For the third or subsequent offense, a fine of not less than $100
nor more than $250, or imprisonment for not more than 15 days, or both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day the child remains out of school after the oral
and documented or written warning has been given to the parent, guardian,
custodian, child, or other person or the child has been ordered to school by
the Juvenile Court shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-423)
Editor’s note:
   Division (B)(1) became effective on 11-16-1998.
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
134.01   Resisting an officer
   
134.02   Refusing or failing to assist an officer
   
134.03   Assault or battery upon police officer
   
134.04   Rescuing prisoners
   
134.05   Escape of prisoners
   
134.06   Impersonating an officer or employee
   
134.07   False alarms
   
134.08   False representation to an officer
   
134.09   Removal of barricades
   
134.10   Resisting public officials
§ 134.01 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   It is unlawful to resist, oppose, or assault, or in any way interfere
with a police officer or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his, her, or their
official duties within the limits of the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to
assist such other person to flee, escape, or evade an officer seeking to make
an arrest or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of
or in front of an approaching officer.
   (C)   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to,
or obstruction of, an individual acting in his, her, or their official
capacity, and authorized by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property,
or to serve any lawful process or court order, when the offender knows or has
reason to know that the person arresting, seizing property, or serving process
is acting in his, her, or their official capacity.
   (D)   The words OBSTRUCTION OF shall, in addition to their common meaning,
include:
      (1)   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer
can restrain him, her, or them and after notice is given that he, she, or they
is under arrest;
      (2)   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the
arresting officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and
before he, she, or they is under arrest; or
      (3)   Refusal by the arrested party to give his, her, or their name and
make his, her, or their identity known to the arresting officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-601) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER.
   (A)   An officer of the town making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the town or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray, or unlawful assembly, may call upon person or persons
to assist him, her, or them in making such arrest, executing such process or
suppressing such riot, affray, or unlawful assembly.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the town to refuse or fail to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-602) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly commit any assault, battery, or
assault and battery upon the person of a police officer or other officer of the
law while in the performance of his, her, or their duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-603) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.04 RESCUING PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty,
rescue, or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any
officer or employee of the town having legal custody of the same or from the
town jail or other place of confinement by the town, or to assist such prisoner
in any manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after
conviction, including escape from a vehicle of confinement.
(Prior Code, § 10-604) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.05 ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It is unlawful for any person confined in the town jail or other place of
confinement by the town, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the town in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the town, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison, or custody.
(Prior Code, § 10-605) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.06 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
town, falsely represent himself, herself, or themself to be an officer or
employee of the town, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties,
functions or powers of an officer or employee of the town without being duly
authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-606) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.07 FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in
any manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the Fire Department or Police
Department or any officer or employee thereof with reference to any fire alarm
or reported fire, accident, or other emergency, or knowingly to cause the Fire
Department or Police Department or its officers or employees to make a useless
run.
(Prior Code, § 10-607) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.08 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or any agent or
employee thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any
officer, employee, or agency of the town government in any official application
to, or official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to
commit perjury before any tribunal or officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 10-608) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.09 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   It is unlawful for any person except by proper authority to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the town to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk, or other area.
(Prior Code, § 10-609) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.10 RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to:
   (A)   Resist, oppose or obstruct the Chief of Police, any other police
officer, the Municipal Judge, or any other officer or employee of the town in
the discharge of his, her, or their official duties;
   (B)   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his, her, or their official duties;
or
   (C)   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his, her, or their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-610) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   MODULAR AND/OR MOBILE HOMES
      
153.   PLANNING, ZONING, AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   House moving; license, bond, and permit
   
150.002   Relief in courts
Building Code
   
150.015   Building Code adopted
   
150.016   Additions and changes to Building Code
   
150.017   Building Official
   
150.018   Fire limits
   
150.019   Building permits
   
150.020   Enclosing swimming pools; exceptions
Plumbing Code
   
150.035   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.036   Additions, insertions, and changes to plumbing code
   
150.037   Plumbers; registration, permits, and fees
   
150.038   Plumbing; permits and inspections
   
150.039   Plumbing Inspector; office created, duties
Electrical Code
   
150.050   Electrical equipment
   
150.051   National Electric Code
   
150.052   Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
   
150.053   Special rulings
   
150.054   Pilot light required for iron in mercantile occupancies
   
150.055   Branch circuits
   
150.056   Basement installations
   
150.057   Permit required for electrical installations; issuance
   
150.058   Inspection fee
   
150.059   Electricians’ registration required; bond
Gas
   
150.070   Liquefied Petroleum Gas
   
150.071   Gas Piping Code
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 HOUSE MOVING; LICENSE, BOND, AND PERMIT.
   (A)   Every person, firm, or corporation who shall engage in the business or
perform services normally provided by a house mover shall be required to
procure, prior to engaging in the business, a license from the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, and the license fee to be set by motion or resolution by the Board
of Trustees per fiscal year or any part thereof, and the person procuring the
license shall also post a bond in the sum of $2,500 by a surety company
authorized to do business in the state, which bond shall be payable to the town
and shall guarantee the payment of license and building fees and damages caused
to the property of the town by the performance of the work of the house mover,
and shall further provide coverage to others who shall be so damaged, to the
extent of the bond.
(Prior Code, § 5-601)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall engage in the business of
moving houses or buildings shall, prior to moving the building upon the
streets, alleys, or public places of the town, obtain a permit for each
building so moved, which permit shall be supplied by the Town Clerk-Treasurer
upon the payment of the permit fee, to be set by motion or resolution by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-602)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.002 RELIEF IN COURTS.
   No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this chapter shall interfere with the
right of the town also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a
mandamus, an injunction, or other appropriate action against such person, firm,
or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 5-702)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.015 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The International Building Code, the latest edition thereof, is hereby
adopted as the Building Code of the town for the control of buildings and
structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, and terms of the International Building Code are hereby
referred to, adopted, incorporated, and made a part hereof as if fully set out
in this code with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes if any
prescribed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)
Statutory reference:
   Building codes, adoption by cities, see 11 O.S. § 14-107 and 74 O.S. § 324.8
§ 150.016 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO BUILDING CODE.
   The following sections of the International Building Code are hereby
revised:
Section Revision
Section         Revision
§ 100.1        Insert “Town of South Coffeyville”
§ 114.3.1      Insert: “The fee schedule shall be in accordance with Sections 5-108 of
                the town code, or as may be set or amended by ordinance or resolution”
§ 117.4        Insert: “offense, punishable by fine and imprisonment as provided in §
                10.99 of the town code of ordinances.”
§ 118.2        Insert: “fine as provided in §
                10.99 of the town code of ordinances.”
§ 123.3        Insert: “as set by the town Board of Trustees.”
§ 501.2        Insert: “the boundaries of the fire limits as provided in the town code
                of ordinances.”
§ 1807.2.1 and Insert: “a number of feet to be determined by the town Board of Trustees
1807.22         by motion or resolution.” in both locations
§ 1906.1       Insert: “amounts as set by the town Board of Trustees by motion or
                resolution.”
 
(Prior Code, § 5-102)
§ 150.017 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official of the town shall be appointed by the town Board of
Trustees and shall have the powers and duties prescribed for the “Building
Official” by the town’s Building Code; provided that his, her, or their powers
and duties may be exercised by his, her, or their authorized representatives
under his, her, or their supervision and control. The term “Building
Inspector,” whenever used in the ordinances of the town, means the Building
Official. The terms “Electrical Inspector,” “Plumbing Inspector,” and “Gas
Inspector,” wherever used in the ordinances of the town, also each refer to and
mean the Building Official, unless a separate Electrical Inspector, Plumbing
Inspector, or Gas Inspector is appointed by the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
§ 150.018 FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits are that part of the town bounded as provided by the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-105)
§ 150.019 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No building or other structure mobile or fixed, fence or pool, shall
be built, enlarged, altered, or moved without a building permit issued by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer as follows:
      (1)   Whenever changes to a building or other structure alter the outside
appearance; and
      (2)   Whenever a building or structure is to be moved from without the
town to a location within the town or from one location in the town to another
location within the town.
   (B)   A person desiring a building permit shall submit an application
therefor to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The applicant shall submit with the
application such reasonable information as the Clerk-Treasurer may require to
enable him, her, or them to determine whether granting the permit would be in
accordance with the requirements of the ordinances of the town.
   (C)   If the application is in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances and laws, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the permit upon the
payment by the applicant of a building permit fee which may be set by motion or
resolution of the town’s Board of Trustees. A current copy of the fee schedule
shall be kept in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   A building permit is not required for the following: re-roofing as
long as the dimensions do not change. Siding, guttering, window replacements,
concrete work such as foundation, driveways, patios, or paths within the
setbacks. Driveways may connect to the existing street without a building
permit.
   (E)   A building permit covers the initial plumbing and electrical
installations to be made in connection with the building.
   (F)   (1)   A building permit is required to erect, move, or replace an
existing fence or repair 50% or more of an existing fence. Open, solid wood,
decorative, visually solid fences are permitted. Materials used may be masonry,
wood, chain link, plastic, or metal. All fences must be of one solid color and
material. Privacy fence may have metal posts and bracing with wood planks.
      (2)   Where fencing is either required by this section or fencing is
being moved or a property owner is replacing 50% or more of an existing fence,
such fence and walls shall be opaque and shall be constructed of durable,
easily maintained materials such as, but not limited to masonry, vinyl, wood
sections that are either treated, stained or painted or chain link or wire
mesh. In no event shall barbed wire, electric wire fencing, concertina wire,
used signage, expanded metal, corrugated tin, pallets, or arena panels be
permitted for use as primary fencing.
(Prior Code, § 5-106) (Ord. passed 6-20-2005; Ord. 2019-06, passed 11-4-2019)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.020 ENCLOSING SWIMMING POOLS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL. Any permanent or portable container, tank,
excavation, or pool, not owned or operated by the town which is so designed and
constructed as to permit its use by a person or persons for floating or
swimming therein.
      WADING POOL. Any portable tank, container, or pool designed for wading or
splashing therein and of insufficient size, depth, and capacity to permit
floating or swimming therein.
   (B)   All private swimming pools shall be fenced or otherwise enclosed by
fencing or other enclosure of a minimum height of 48 inches. The fencing or
other enclosure shall be so constructed as to prevent minor children from
walking under or through the fence or enclosure. The fencing or other enclosure
may be located either immediately adjacent to such swimming pool or within the
boundary lines of the residential or other property upon which such pool is
located. The fence or other enclosure shall be designed, constructed, and
located so as to exclude the general public from the property which is enclosed
by such fence or other enclosure.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted or construed as applying
to wading pools.
(Prior Code, § 5-107) Penalty, see §
150.999
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.035 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, at least one copy of which is on file in the office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, being marked and designated as “The International
Plumbing Code”, the latest edition thereof, and any revisions or amendments
thereto, is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the town for the control of
buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of the International Plumbing Code
are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as it fully set out in
this code, with additions, insertions, and changes, if any, prescribed in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
Statutory reference:
   Town powers to supervise plumbing, see 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.
§ 150.036 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, AND CHANGES TO PLUMBING CODE.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
Section Location Revision
Section Location Revision
§ P-   Page 5,  Insert “the Town of South Coffeyville”
100.1   line 2
§ P-   Page 6,  Insert effective date of the town’s code of ordinances
104.1   line 2
§ P-   Page 12, Insert “as provided in § 150.23 of the town’s code of
114.2   line 3   ordinances.”
§ P-   Page 13, Insert “offense and punished as provided in §
117.4   lines 5, 10.99 of the town’s code of ordinances.”
        6, and 7
§ P-   Page 14, Insert “fine as provided in §
118.2   line 5   10.99 of ordinances.”
§ P-   Page 32, Insert “a distance in feet as determined by the town’s Board of
303.2   line 3   Trustees.”
§ P-   Page 33, Insert “a depth in feet as determined by the town’s Board of
308.3   lines 2  Trustees.”
        and 3
 
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
§ 150.037 PLUMBERS; REGISTRATION, PERMITS, AND FEES.
   (A)   The phrases and words “journeyman plumber,” “plumber’s apprentice,”
“plumbing contractor,” and “plumbing,” when used in the ordinances, regulations
and other official acts and communications of the town, shall have the meanings
respectively prescribed for them by 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq., the state’s
Plumbing License Law unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade, or
occupation of a plumbing contractor (otherwise known as a master plumber), or
of a journeyman plumber, or of a plumber’s apprentice, in the town unless he,
she, or they is registered with the Plumbing Inspector and has a current and
valid certificate of registration issued by the Plumbing Inspector.
   (C)   Only persons who have current and valid licenses as plumbing
contractors or as journeyman plumbers issued by the State Commissioner of
Health as provided by the state’s Plumbing License Law may register as such
with the Plumbing Inspector; and only persons who have current and valid
certificates of registration as plumber’s apprentices issued by the State
Commissioner of Health as provided by the law, may register as such with the
Plumbing Inspector.
   (D)   Upon application to the Plumbing Inspector, the Plumbing Inspector
shall register such applicants and issue to them certificates of registration;
provided that an applicant for registration as a plumbing contractor shall also
furnish a bond as required by the town. Such town certificates shall not be
valid after the termination or expiration of the state licenses or
certificates. Registration certificates of plumbing contractors and journeyman
plumbers issued as provided herein shall expire each year. The town
certificates of plumber’s apprentices shall expire when their state
certificates expire which is five years after date of issue.
   (E)   An applicant for a plumbing contractor’s certificate of registration,
after complying with the laws of the state and with the established town code,
and after payment of the fee hereinafter specified, shall be registered by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. The registration shall expire at the end of the fiscal
year, and the annual renewal fee, but may be renewed from year to year. The
initial registration fee shall be as set by the Town Board. Plumbing
contractors desiring to renew his, her, or their registration shall furnish the
same evidence of compliance with state licensing laws and the same bond is
required as set forth by town code.
   (F)   A qualified person may register as a plumbing contractor, a journeyman
plumber, or a plumber’s apprentice, in the same manner as in the original
instance, and upon the same conditions.
   (G)   All plumbing contractors registrations not renewed within 90 days
after the date of expiration thereof shall be canceled, and a new application
for registration must be made and the fee for a new registration paid.
   (H)   The fee for registration shall be as set by the Town Board by motion
or resolution.
   (I)   The Town Board, upon at least ten days’ notice and adequate
opportunity for a public hearing, may revoke the town’s registration of any
plumbing contractor or journeyman plumber for violating any provisions of the
ordinances or regulations of the town relating to the installation of plumbing
or for any other cause specified in the state’s Plumbing License Law.
(Prior Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   State plumbing licenses, requirements, see 59 O.S. §§ 1001 et seq.
§ 150.038 PLUMBING; PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No plumbing work shall be undertaken without a permit from the
Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   The application for such work must follow the adopted town code.
   (C)   The schedule of permit fees may be set forth by resolution or motion
of the Town Board. Such payment will be made upon application.
   (D)   Inspection of such work must conform to the guidelines set forth in
the town code.
(Prior Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.039 PLUMBING INSPECTOR; OFFICE CREATED, DUTIES.
   The office of Inspector of Plumbing is hereby created and shall be filled
and the duties of the office performed by some person appointed by the town’s
Board of Trustees. Such Inspector shall make inspection and testing of all
plumbing and sewer connections done within the town and shall have the right to
deputize any person equally qualified to make the actual inspections and
report. He, she, or they may and shall carry out the performance of this
subchapter. The testing of plumbing shall be done by filling all drains with
water to the roof, and such other tests as the Inspector shall deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
Statutory reference:
   Cities and towns to create office of Plumbing Inspector, see 59 O.S. § 1016
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.050 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT used in this subchapter refers to electrical
conductors, metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances,
apparatus, and any electrical material of any nature, kind, or description, to
be installed within or on any building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)
Statutory reference:
   State electrical requirements, licensing by state, see 59 O.S. §§ 1680 to
1696
§ 150.051 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE.
   (A)   All installations of electrical equipment shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this subchapter, with the statutes of the state and any
orders, rules, and regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved
electrical standards for safety to persons and property.
   (B)   Where no specific standards are prescribed by this subchapter or by
the statutes of the state or by any orders, rules, or regulations issued by
authority thereof, conformity with the regulations set forth in the current
issue of the National Electrical Code as approved by the American Insurance
Association, shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved
standards for safety to persons or to property.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
§ 150.052 UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES, INC.
   (A)   All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this subchapter, the statutes of the state and the provisions
of this subchapter, the statutes of the state and any orders, rules, and
regulations issued by the authority thereof, and with approved electrical
standards for safety to persons or to property.
   (B)   Unless by this subchapter, by a statute of the state or any orders,
rules, or regulations issued by authority thereof, a specific type or class of
electrical equipment is disapproved for installation and use, conformity with
the standards of Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., shall be prima facie
evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to persons or to
property.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)
§ 150.053 SPECIAL RULINGS.
   The Board of Trustees of the town, by motion or resolution, shall have the
authority to make special rulings, when circumstances warrant, for the
safeguarding of life and property and the improvement of electrical
installations. In all cases, persons engaged in the installing of electrical
equipment and holding an electrical license must be notified by letter of these
decisions.
(Prior Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.054 PILOT LIGHT REQUIRED FOR IRON IN MERCANTILE OCCUPANCIES.
   (A)   In all mercantile occupancies where electric irons are used, they must
be installed with approved pilot light.
   (B)   If pilot light is in an enclosure such as an alteration room, and
additional light must be installed in a visible position outside the enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 5-305) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.055 BRANCH CIRCUITS.
   (A)   In residential and mercantile occupancies, lighting branch circuits
shall be confined to 1,000 watts, and not more than eight outlets per circuit
will be allowed in the fire limits.
   (B)   Branch circuit conductors shall be smaller than No. 12. Type C lamp
cord will not be permitted in the kitchen or restaurants or like places where
grease accumulates, nor in part of a building where live poultry is confined.
(Prior Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.056 BASEMENT INSTALLATIONS.
   A circuit of not less than No. 12 wire shall be installed in basements in
any area subject to floods. Ground connections shall not be made in toilets,
adjacent to salt storage, acid vapors, or in any location where the grounding
conductor and fitting is likely to become corroded.
(Prior Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.057 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to install any electrical wiring,
fixtures, or apparatus in or on any building or structure in the corporate
limits of the town or make extensions to any existing electrical installations
without first securing a permit from the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Applications for electrical permits shall be made to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer; and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications, and
other data as may be reasonably required.
   (C)   The fee for an electrical permit shall be as prescribed by motion or
resolution passed by the town’s Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.058 INSPECTION FEE.
   The town’s Board of Trustees by motion or resolution may prescribe an
inspection fee to be paid to the town when electrical installations are
inspected by the Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 5-309)
§ 150.059 ELECTRICIANS’ REGISTRATION REQUIRED; BOND.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade, or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician, or appliance
electrician without a certificate of registration as such secured from the
Electric Inspector. The initial fee for an electrical contractor’s registration
certificate, and any renewal, to be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, shall be
as set by the Town Board. A registration certificate must be renewed within 90
days following expiration of the certificate. After the expiration, an
application for a new certificate must be requested and the initial fee paid
again. All such certificates shall expire each year. This certificate is not
transferrable to any other individual or company.
   (B)   Every person receiving a certificate as a electrical contractor or
appliance electrician shall file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a bond in such
sum as set by the Town Board executed with a surety company authorized to do
business in the state. The bond shall be conditioned that the principal will
install all electrical wiring, fixtures, appliances, and equipment in
accordance with the law and the ordinances and other regulations of the town
relating to electrical installations and in a workmanlike manner; that the
principal shall, without further cost to the person for whom the work was done,
remedy any defective or faulty work caused by poor workmanship or inferior or
non-standard material; and that the town may be fully indemnified and held
harmless from any and all costs, expenses, or damage resulting from the
performance of his, her, or their work as an electrical contractor or appliance
electrician, as the case may be.
   (C)   The bond must be approved by the Electrical Inspector. No certificate
shall be issued to any such person until the bond shall have been filed and
approved. Any such certificate issued shall be valid only while the bond is in
effect.
   (D)   No person may be registered by the town unless he, she, or they
possesses the appropriate current and valid state license issued by the state’s
Department of Health.
   (E)   For the installing of bell, telephone or signal systems not using over
12 volts, no certificate or bond will be required. The installation of same
must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances of the town.
   (F)   After adequate opportunity for a hearing and for just cause, the Town
Board may revoke the certificate of an electrical contractor an appliance
electrician, or a journeyman electrician.
(Prior Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
150.999
GAS
§ 150.070 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to manufacture,
fabricate, assemble, install, or repair any system, container, apparatus, or
appliance to be used for the transportation, storage, dispensing, or
utilization of liquefied petroleum gas, or to transport, handle, or store such
gas, unless such person has complied with and complies with all provisions of
the law and ordinances relating thereto, and has any license or permit which
may be required by state law. The pamphlet, Storage and Handling of Liquefied
Petroleum Gases, as contained in Pamphlet No. 58 issued by the National Fire
Protection Association, the latest edition thereof, adopted by the state’s
Liquefied Petroleum Gas Board, shall have full force and effect within the
town. Any violation of these rules and regulations shall be deemed a violation
of the ordinances of the town and shall be punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 5-401) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.071 GAS PIPING CODE.
   Pamphlet No. 54 published by the National Fire Protection Association,
entitled National Fuel Gas Code, the latest edition thereof, hereby adopted and
incorporated in this code by reference. The pamphlet shall be in full force and
effect in the town and shall govern the installation of gas piping and gas
appliances in the town. Any violation of the provisions of the pamphlet shall
be deemed a violation of the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-501) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall engage in any business,
trade or vocation for which a license, permit, certificate, or registration is
required by this chapter, without having a valid license, permit, certificate,
or certificate of registration as required, or who shall fail to do anything
required by this chapter or by any code adopted by this chapter, or who shall
otherwise violate any provision of this chapter or of any code adopted by this
chapter, or who shall violate any lawful regulation or order made by any of the
officers provided for in this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
   (C)   A person who violates a provision of §§
150.015 through
150.020 or fails to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof,
or who erects, constructs, alters, repairs, or removes, or has erected,
constructed, altered, repaired, or removed a building or structure in violation
of a detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder or of a
permit or certificate issued thereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction shall be fined any sum as provided in §
10.99 of this code, including costs. Each day upon which a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
151.08   Establishment of development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Interpretation
   
151.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.13   Certificate of adoption
Administration
   
151.25   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.26   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.27   Permit procedures
   
151.28   Variance procedures
   
151.29   Fee schedule
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   General standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has in the state’s Floodplain Management Act,
82 O.S. §§ 1601 through 1620.1 delegated the responsibility of local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the town does ordain these flood damage prevention provisions.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of town are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these flood damage prevention provisions to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these flood damage prevention
provisions use the following methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development, which may
increase flood damage; and/or
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such FLOODING is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The AREA may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE, or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) and found in accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for zones A, AE,
AH, A1-A30, and AR that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from
the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given
year, also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/
or flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A,
M, and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See definition of FLOODING.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. The physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a SYSTEM typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of §
60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   For other than new construction or substantial improvements under
the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law 97-348), includes substantial
improvement and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (2)   The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
      (3)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      (4)   For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market/tax access value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures, which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic
structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements, see 44 C.F.R. § 60.6 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   These flood damage prevention provisions shall apply to all areas of special
flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for the county and
incorporated areas dated February 16, 2012, with accompanying Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) panel No. 0055D, No. 400411, Map No. 40105c0055D, effective
date February 16, 2012 are hereby adopted by reference and declared to part of
these flood damage prevention provisions.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without frill compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These flood damage prevention provisions are not intended to repeal,
abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
However, where these provisions and other ordinances, easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these flood damage prevention
provisions, all provisions shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by these flood damage
prevention provisions is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is
based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions, greater
floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by human-made or
natural causes.
   (B)   These flood damage prevention provisions do not imply that land
outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (C)   These flood damage prevention provisions shall not create liability on
the part of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.13 CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION.
   It is hereby found and declared by the town that severe flooding has
occurred in the past within its jurisdiction and will certainly occur within
the future; that flooding is likely to result in infliction of serious personal
injury or death, and is likely to result in substantial injury or destruction
of property within its jurisdiction; in order to effectively comply with
minimum standards for coverage under the National Flood Insurance Program, and
in order to effectively remedy the situation described herein an emergency is
hereby declared to exist, and this chapter, being necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, and safety, shall be in full force
and effect and after its passage and approval.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.25 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Board of Trustees of the town designates the Mayor or his, her, or their
designee the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the
provisions of these flood damage prevention provisions and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (Emergency Management and Assistance, National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. Upon
appointment notify both OWRB and FEMA.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.26 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of these flood damage prevention provisions;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state’s
Water Resources Board prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
151.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.40 through
151.42;
   (I)   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with 82 O.S. §§ 1601
through 1620, as amended;
   (J)   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the community of town determine if the residential and nonresidential
structures and manufactured homes have been substantially damaged, and enforce
the substantial improvement requirement; and
   (K)   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a decision
of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 151.27 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him, her, or them and may
include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be flood-proofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential flood-proofed structure shall meet the flood-proofing
criteria of §
151.41;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
151.26.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
these flood damage prevention provisions.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of these flood damage prevention provisions.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
151.27(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of these
flood damage prevention provisions, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of these flood damage prevention provisions (§
151.03).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.29 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The town’s Board of Trustees establishes the following fee schedule not to
exceed $500 for any one service:
 
Service                                          Fee
Floodplain development permit application review $100
Floodplain development permit fee                $25
Inspection fee per inspection                    $25
Notice of intent fee                             $25 maximum
Variance request filing fee                      $25
 
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
151.07,
151.26(H),
151.42(C), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
at or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer,
architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the Floodplain
Administrator that the standard of this section as proposed in §
151.27(A), is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) at or above the base
flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for
the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction
are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this
section. A record of such certification which includes the specific elevation
(in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are flood-proofed
shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize
flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   (a)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or
substantially improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community’s FIRM
on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I-beam is
elevated at or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
         (b)   This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         (c)   The manufactured home shall be installed by a licensed installer
according to state law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to
the Floodplain Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the
manufactured home.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this division (D) be elevated so that either the manufactured home chassis is
supported by reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least
equivalent strength that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A, A1-30, AH, and AE on the county’s FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on a site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements of §
151.27, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes in
division (D) above. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by a quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   (F)   Accessory structure. Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
Zones A on the town, No. 400411,0055D FIRM shall comply with the following.
      (1)   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage.
      (2)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include but are not limited to working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use.
      (3)   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior.
      (4)   Structures shall be small in size, not exceed 600 square feet in
size.
      (5)   Structures exceeding 600 square feet in size will be required to
meet all applicable standards of §§
151.08,
151.27,
151.40 and
151.41, including relevant divisions.
      (6)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE.
      (7)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (8)   The structure shall be considered low in value, designed to have
low flood damage potential and constructed with flood resistance materials.
      (9)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
      (10)   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the
structure.
      (11)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and be placed on opposing walls with the net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of the size of the
footprint of the structure (flood vents).
      (12)   The openings (flood vents) shall be located no higher than one
foot above grade.
      (13)   The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
151.02 through
151.04.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
151.08,
151.27, and
151.40 through
151.42.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is
lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
151.07 or
151.26(H).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
court order and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of
this court order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court
order or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than one year,
or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day the violation continues shall be deemed a new
violation. Nothing herein contained shall prevent town from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-4-2019)
CHAPTER 152: MODULAR AND/OR MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Manufactured homes
   
152.03   Mobile homes
   
152.04   Modular homes
   
152.05   Residential design manufactured home
   
152.06   Freestanding manufactured homes and/or mobile homes
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A structure which is transportable in one or more sections which,
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, in which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or
without permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein; and
      (2)   Is subject to federal manufactured home construction and safety
standards established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 5403.
   MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A structure which is transportable in one or more sections which,
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width and 36 body feet or
more in length and is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling, with or without a permanent foundation, when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems contained therein; and
      (2)   Is not subject to federal manufactured home construction and safety
standards established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 5403.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure which is:
      (1)   Transportable in one or more sections;
      (2)   Not constructed on a permanent chassis;
      (3)   Designed to be used as a dwelling on a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical system contained therein; and
      (4)   Certified by its manufacturer is being constructed in accordance
with nationally recognized Building Code.
   RESIDENTIAL-DESIGN MANUFACTURED HOME. Residential-design manufactured home
means a manufactured home on permanent foundation which has:
      (1)   Minimum dimensions of 22 body feet in width;
      (2)   A pitched roof; and
      (3)   Siding and roofing materials which are customarily used on site-
built homes.
(Prior Code, § 12-601)
§ 152.02 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Residential- design manufactured home means a manufactured home on permanent
foundation which has:
   (A)   Minimum dimensions of 22 body feet in width;
   (B)   A pitched roof; and
   (C)   Siding and roofing materials which are customarily used on site-built
homes.
(Prior Code, § 12-602)
§ 152.03 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Any mobile home older than five years from the date of owner’s
application for building permit as defined herein shall not be permitted to be
placed on tracts of land within the town limits.
   (B)   The mobile homes that are approved by the Town Board must meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   Mobile home footings are to run the width of the manufactured home.
      (2)   Footings are to be 12 inches wide and 18 inches deep, and no more
than ten feet apart.
      (3)   A full concrete pad may be used if poured eight inches deep running
the length and width of the mobile home.
      (4)   Piers of concrete may be poured at two-feet wide, two-feet long,
and two-feet deep, to be ran no more than eight-feet apart along all load
bearing main beams under the mobile home for concrete block support.
      (5)   All tie downs will be set in concrete.
      (6)   All exterior hitches must be removed.
      (7)   All interior wiring will be copper and meet or exceed National
Electric Code.
      (8)   Mobile homes with a 100 amp service will have a minimum of #2
copper entrance cable and mobile homes with a 200 amp service line a minimum of
2/0 copper entrance cable.
      (9)   Water lines may be galvanized pipe, copper tubing, pipe, or PVC
class 200 or thicker. Service lines are to be a minimum of three-fourths inch
inside diameter, and buried a minimum of 18 inches deep.
      (10)   Drain line may be copper, cast-iron, or PVC SOR 35 or thicker,
with fence no smaller than the lines they are venting.
      (11)   Sewer lines may be cast-iron or PVC SOR 35 or thicker, bedded in
sand or fine aggregate, and will be no more than four-inch diameter unless flow
is more than 75 gallons per minute. There will be at least one cleanout per
service.
      (12)   Proper skirting will be completed within 90 days. Skirting
includes: (vinyl, metal, concrete blocks, brick, or rock).
      (13)   All wheels, axles, transporting lights, and towing apparatus shall
be removed as to meet all federal and state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-603) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 MODULAR HOMES.
   Modular homes as defined in this chapter shall be permitted wherever one-
family dwellings are permitted. Must be erected on a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities which includes the plumbing heating air
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein and must be certified by
its manufacturer is being constructed in accordance with nationally recognized
building code
(Prior Code, § 12-604) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 RESIDENTIAL DESIGN MANUFACTURED HOME.
   Residential-design manufactured home, as defined in this chapter, shall be
permitted wherever one-family dwellings are permitted, subject to all of the
following architectural and aesthetic standards.
   (A)   The residential design manufactured home meets or exceeds the minimum
square footage as required by the zoning district in which it is to be placed.
   (B)   The roof must be double-pitched and have a minimum vertical rise of
two feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run, and be covered with material that
is residential in appearance, including but not limited to, approved wood,
asphalt composition shingles, or fiberglass, but excluding corrugated aluminum
and corrugated fiberglass.
   (C)   All roof structures shall provide an eave projection of no less than
six inches, which may include a gutter.
   (D)   Exterior siding cannot have a high-gloss finish, and must be
residential in appearance, including but not limited to, clapboards simulated
clapboards such as conventional vinyl or metal siding, wood shingles, shakes,
or similar material, but excluding smooth, ribbed, or corrugated metal or
plastic panels.
   (E)   The home shall be permanently supported and attached to its
foundation. A masonry wall shall enclose the crawl area (space between the
ground and sub-floor) around the entire perimeter of the home and with only the
necessary openings for ventilation and access.
   (F)   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps, and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the home shall be installed or constructed in
accordance with the standards set by the town building code and attached firmly
to the primary structure and anchor securely to the ground.
   (G)   The unit must be oriented on the lot so that its long axis is parallel
with the street.
   (H)   The lot must be landscaped to ensure compatibility with surrounding
properties.
   (I)   All fuel supply system shall be constructed and installed within the
foundation wall or underground within all applicable building and safety codes.
   (J)   The running gear, tongues, moving hitch, wheels and axles, and
transporting lights must be removed.
   (K)   If a garage or carport is added, the external material and roofing of
the garage or carport shall be the same as that of the dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 12-605) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 FREESTANDING MANUFACTURED HOMES AND/OR MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Any areas in which free-standing manufactured homes and/or mobile
homes have been permitted due to grandfathered usage, vested rights, or history
of use will only continue to be permitted to the original grandfathered
property owner or occupant. Upon the sale of such property or death of the
original owner/owners or occupant, the manufactured and or mobile housing unit
shall be removed.
   (B)   In the event of a verified natural disaster which destroys an existing
nonconforming manufactured and/or mobile home, replacement may be permitted,
providing the replacement manufactured and/or mobile home is of equal or
greater value as the damaged home was when new at current market rates, the
replacement home must not be more than five years old and be equal or larger in
square footage of living space. Replacement must occur within 120 days of the
verified disaster.
   (C)   Any freestanding manufactured and/or mobile home that is damaged or in
disrepair to such an extent that it is no longer suitable for human occupation
shall be removed. The manufactured and/or mobile home shall not be repaired;
but must be removed from the location. Whether the manufactured home is damaged
or in disrepair to such an extent that it is no longer suitable for human
habitation shall be determined by an appointee of the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 12-606) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is punishable by fine or
imprisonment as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-607)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING, ZONING, AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
Planning Commission
   
153.01   Creation; membership
   
153.02   Organization; meetings; officers and employees
   
153.03   Powers and duties
   
153.04   To have power of a Zoning Commission
Adoption of Regulations
   
153.15   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
   
153.16   Subdivision regulations adopted by reference
 
   
153.99   Penalty
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 153.01 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Planning Commission is hereby created for the town. It shall consist
of five appointive members, all of whom shall be residents of the town, and the
Mayor and the Town Engineer (if any) as ex officio members.
   (B)   The appointive members shall be nominated by the Mayor and appointed
by the Board of Trustees and shall serve for terms of three years. Of the
original appointive members, one shall serve for a term of one year, two shall
serve for a term of two years, and two shall serve for a term of three years.
   (C)   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms.
   (D)   The members shall serve without compensation.
   (E)   The town’s Board of Trustees may remove members of the town’s Planning
Commission for cause.
(Prior Code, § 12-101)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Planning Commissions, see 11 O.S. §§ 45-101 to 45-105
§ 153.02 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The town’s Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson, a Vice
Chairperson, and Secretary, who shall serve until the first Monday of the next
May after their election. The Secretary need not be a member of the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall determine the time and place of its regular
meetings, and the Chairperson or any three members may call special meetings of
the Commission.
   (C)   The Commission may employ engineers, attorneys, clerks, and other help
deemed necessary, subject to the approval of the town’s Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Their salaries and compensation shall be fixed by the Board, and shall
be paid out of the Town Treasury as other salaries and compensation are paid.
The necessary legal expenses shall be paid out of the Town Treasury as other
legal expenses of the town government are paid.
(Prior Code, § 12-102)
§ 153.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The town’s Planning Commission shall have all the powers and duties
prescribed for it by state law and all other powers and duties now or hereafter
prescribed for it by any other provision of ordinance or law.
(Prior Code, § 12-103)
§ 153.04 TO HAVE POWER OF A ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The town’s Planning Commission is hereby appointed the zoning
commission of the town, and the town’s Planning Commission shall have the
powers of a Zoning Commission as provided by state law. Whether exercising the
powers of a Planning Commission or the powers of a Zoning Commission, it shall
be legally one board known as the town’s Planning Commission.
   (B)   Exercising the powers of a Zoning Commission, the town’s Planning
Commission shall recommend the boundaries of the various zones and appropriate
zoning regulations to be enforced therein. It shall have all the powers
conferred upon a zoning commission by state law and all powers which now or in
the future may be granted by applicable state law to such authorities.
(Prior Code, § 12-104)
ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS
§ 153.15 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance Number 66, the Zoning Ordinance of the town, as amended, is hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference, along with all amendments
thereto. One copy of Ordinance Number 66 and all amendments thereto are on file
in the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 12-301) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s subdivision ordinance, adopted August 6, 1973, as part of the
town’s prior code, Sections 16-6 through 16-31, containing the town’s land
development and subdivision regulations, and any and all amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the town’s
subdivision ordinance and any amendments are on file in the Town Clerk-
Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 12-401) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the town’s zoning ordinance or amendments thereto (§
153.15) shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-301)
   (C)   Any violation of the town’s subdivision regulations (§
153.16) is punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-401)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
IV.   STREET CLOSINGS AND OPENINGS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 2008-04    2- -2008    Agreement with Rural Financial Consultants, LLC as
                          Project Consultant to the Authority
R. 2008-03    2- -2008    Agreement with Johanning and Byrom, P.C. Attorneys at
                          Law as Financial Legal Counsel to the Authority
08-07         3-3-2008    Agreement with Nowata EMS to provide ambulance
                          services to the town
R. 2011-05    10-17-2011  Water Purchase Contract with the City of Coffeyville,
                          Kansas
                         
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
                             Establishment of a Supplemental Emergency Services
R. 97-11      10-7-1996      District serviced by the Northern Nowata County
                             911 system
                             Annexes a tract of school lands of Section 18,
2009-04       8-17-2009      Township 29 North, Range 16 East of the Indian
                             Meridian
2011-04       10-3-2011      Annexes a strip of land off the west and south
                             side of Section 18, T29N R16E
2014-002      4-21-2014      Annexes additional lands and territory, several
                             highway subdivision lots
                            
 
TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
R. 2012-02    5-21-2012      Changes “Osage Street” to “Osage Industrial Way”
R. 2014-04    8-18-2004      Changes a section of Old Highway 169 to “Oklahoma
                             Street”
                            
 
TABLE IV: STREET CLOSINGS AND OPENINGS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
R. 2016-09    8-1-2016       Permanently closes a section of 4th Street
2017-5        6-5-2017       Closes a street in Etchen Heights Blocks 15 and 16
2017-13       10-2-2017      Reopens a street in Etchen Heights Blocks 15 and
                             16
2018-02       3-5-2018       Closes a portion of an alley from 3rd Street South
                             between Shawnee and Willow
                            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Oklahoma Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OKLAHOMA STATUTES
O.S. Cites Code Section
O.S. Cites                      Code Section
2 O.S. 7-1 et seq.              94.61
11 O.S. 8-102                   30.02
11 O.S. 8-105                   31.06
11 O.S. 8-106                   31.02
11 O.S. 8-109                   30.02,
                                31.02
11 O.S. 12-101                  30.01
11 O.S. 12-102                  30.02
11 O.S. 12-103                  30.02
11 O.S. 12-103.1                11.02,
                                30.02
11 O.S. 12-104                  31.01
11 O.S. 12-105                  31.01
11 O.S. 12-107                  30.03
11 O.S. 12-109                  31.02
11 O.S. 12-110                  31.02,
                                32.01
11 O.S. 12-113                  31.07
11 O.S. 14-101 et seq.          Ch. 10
11 O.S. 14-107                  150.015
11 O.S. 14-108                  10.01
11 O.S. 14-109                  10.01
11 O.S. 14-111                  10.99
11 O.S. 16-112                  32.35
11 O.S. 16-205                  30.02.
                                31.02
11 O.S. 22-101 et seq.          Ch. 10
11 O.S. 22-106                  110.01
11 O.S. 22-107                  110.01,
                                110.07
11 O.S. 22-110                  94.35
11 O.S. 22-111                  94.37,
                                94.99
11 O.S. 22-115                  90.01
11 O.S. 27-101                  35.01
11 O.S. 27-101 to 27-131        35.01
11 O.S. 27-102                  35.01
11 O.S. 27-111                  35.16
11 O.S. 27-119                  10.99
11 O.S. 27-123                  35.42
11 O.S. 27-124                  35.42
11 O.S. 29-106 to 29-109        34.25
11 O.S. 29-201 et seq.          34.15
11 O.S. 34-101 et seq.          34.01
11 O.S. 45-101 to 45-105        153.01
11 O.S. 49-100.11 et seq.       31.45
11 O.S. 49-103 et seq.          31.45
11 O.S. 49-122                  31.47
19 O.S. 645                     31.02
20 O.S. 1313.1                  35.45
21 O.S.                         133.06
21 O.S. Ch. 50, 1247            113.28
21 O.S. Ch. 68, 1740            131.01
21 O.S. 1289.1 et seq.          132.05
21 O.S. 1321.9                  132.09
21 O.S. 1704                    131.01
21 O.S. 1706                    131.01
25 O.S. 301-314                 30.03
37 O.S.                         112.02
37 O.S. Ch. 4, 600.4(A) and (B) 133.14
37 O.S. 163.1                   133.01
37 O.S. 163.1 et seq.           112.25
37 O.S. 163.7                   112.26
37 O.S. 213                     112.35
37 O.S. 220                     112.35
37 O.S. 246(B)                  112.35
37 O.S. 501 to 566              112.01
37 O.S. 516                     112.10
37 O.S. 518                     112.02
37 O.S. 534                     112.05
37 O.S. 600.3                   133.14
47 O.S. Ch. 954A                75.01
47 O.S. Ch. 955                 75.01
47 O.S. 1-1-1 et seq.           70.03
47 O.S. 1-101 et seq.           70.01,
                                70.03
47 O.S. 6-101                   71.02
47 O.S. 6-112 et seq.           71.02
47 O.S. 7-204                   70.04
47 O.S. 7-503                   70.04
47 O.S. 7-606                   70.04
47 O.S. 10-101 et seq.          70.03,
                                70.41
47 O.S. 11-101 et seq.          71.01
47 O.S. 11-104                  70.23
47 O.S. 11-106                  70.25
47 O.S. 11-201(A)               73.01
47 O.S. 11-201(B)               73.02
47 O.S. 11-204                  73.07
47 O.S. 11-207                  73.03
47 O.S. 11-301                  71.07
47 O.S. 11-308                  73.09
47 O.S. 11-309                  73.08
47 O.S. 11-402                  71.09
47 O.S. 11-403(B)               73.12
47 O.S. 11-403(C)               73.13
47 O.S. 11-405                  70.26
47 O.S. 11-601                  71.35
47 O.S. 11-604                  71.37
47 O.S. 11-703(C)               73.13
47 O.S. 11-703(D)               73.12
47 O.S. 11-704                  71.15
47 O.S. 11-901                  71.10
47 O.S. 11-901d                 71.17
47 O.S. 11-902                  71.11
47 O.S. 11-1003                 72.06
47 O.S. 11-1004(C)              72.04
47 O.S. 11-1105                 70.19
47 O.S. 11-1108(a)              70.27
47 O.S. 11-1109                 70.28
47 O.S. 11-1116(C)              74.22
47 O.S. 11-1201                 74.01
47 O.S. 11-1202                 74.02
47 O.S. 11-1203                 74.04
47 O.S. 11-1207(A)              74.09
47 O.S. 12-101 et seq.          70.15
47 O.S. 14-101 et seq.          70.16
47 O.S. 15-102(A)               71.36,
                                73.09
47 O.S. 15-108                  73.10
47 O.S. 15-112                  72.12
47 O.S. 17-101(B) and (C)       71.02
47 O.S. 953.2                   75.03
47 O.S. 1151.1                  71.18
50 O.S. 1 et seq.               92.01
50 O.S. 12                      92.04
50 O.S. 14                      92.05
50 O.S. 15                      92.05
50 O.S. 16                      92.06,
                                92.08
50 O.S. 17                      92.09
51 O.S. 121 et seq.             31.25
51 O.S. 125                     31.25
59 O.S. 353.1                   32.62
59 O.S. 1001 et seq.            150.035,
                                150.037
59 O.S. 1016                    150.039
59 O.S. 1680 to 1696            150.050
61 O.S. 101 et seq.             32.06
62 O.S. 310.1                   32.05
62 O.S. 516.1 et seq.           32.02
63 O.S. Ch. 2                   133.02
63 O.S. Ch. 15, 420             113.28
63 O.S. 1-1011                  92.11
63 O.S. 1-1101 et seq.          94.60
63 O.S. 1-1301 et seq.          94.61
63 O.S. 1-1521 et seq.          113.08
63 O.S. 2-101(23)               113.08
63 O.S. 420(A)                  113.06
63 O.S. 420(A)(1) to (A)(7)     113.06
63 O.S. 420A to 426             113.01,
                                113.08
63 O.S. 683.11                  33.15
63 O.S. 701 to 708              114.05
68 O.S. 205                     32.47
68 O.S. 217                     32.43
68 O.S. 220                     32.44
68 O.S. 227                     32.45
68 O.S. 1350 et seq.            32.20
68 O.S. 1352                    32.21
68 O.S. 1621 et seq.            132.03
68 O.S. 1622                    132.03
68 O.S. 1624                    132.03
68 O.S. 2701                    32.20
68 O.S. 6001 to 6004            32.60
70 O.S. Ch. 10, 105             133.16
74 O.S. 324.8                   150.015
75 O.S. 309 to 317              35.10
82 O.S. 1601 to 1620.1          151.01,
                                151.26
                                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
1-102      10.05
1-108      10.99
1-201      11.01
1-202      11.02
2-101      30.01
2-102      30.02
2-103      30.03
2-104      30.04
2-105      30.05
2-201      31.01
2-301      31.02
2-303      31.03
2-304      31.04
2-305      31.05
2-306      31.06
2-307      31.07
2-308      31.08
2-309      31.09
2-310      31.10
2-311      31.11
2-312      31.12
2-401      31.25
2-402      31.26
2-403      31.27
2-404      31.28
2-405      31.29
2-406      31.30
2-501      31.45
2-502      31.46
2-503      31.47
3-101      112.01
3-102      112.02
3-103      112.03
3-104      112.04
3-105      112.05
3-106      112.06
3-107      112.07
3-108      112.08
3-109      112.09
3-110      112.10
3-111      112.11
3-112      112.99
3-201      112.25
3-202      112.26
3-203      112.27
3-204      112.28
3-205      112.29
3-206      112.30
3-207      112.31
3-208      112.32
3-209      112.33
3-210      112.34
3-211      112.35,
           112.99
3-212      112.36
3-213      112.99
3-301      36.01
3-302      36.02
3-303      36.03,
           36.99
4-101      90.01
4-102      90.02
4-103      90.03
4-104      90.04
4-105      90.05
4-106      90.06
4-107      90.07
4-108      90.08
4-109      90.09
4-110      90.10
4-111      90.11
4-112      90.12
4-113      90.13
4-114      90.14
4-115      90.15
4-116      90.16
4-117      90.17
4-118      90.18
4-119      90.19
4-120      90.20
4-121      90.21,
           90.99
4-122      90.22
4-130      90.35
4-131      90.36
4-132      90.37
4-133      90.38
4-134      90.39
4-135      90.40
4-136      90.41
4-137      90.42
4-138      90.43
4-139      90.44
4-140      90.45
4-141      90.46
4-150      90.99
5-101      150.015
5-102      150.016
5-103      150.999
5-104      150.017
5-105      150.018
5-106      150.019
5-107      150.020
5-201      150.035
5-202      150.036
5-203      150.037
5-204      150.038
5-205      150.039
5-301      150.050
5-302      150.051
5-303      150.052
5-304      150.053
5-305      150.054
5-306      150.055
5-307      150.056
5-308      150.057
5-309      150.058
5-310      150.059
5-401      150.070
5-501      150.071
5-601      150.001
5-602      150.001
5-701      150.999
5-702      150.002
6-101      35.01
6-102      35.02
6-103      35.03
6-104      35.04
6-105      35.05
6-106      35.06
6-107      35.07
6-108      35.08
6-109      35.09
6-110      35.10
6-111      35.11
6-112      35.12
6-113      35.13
6-114      35.14
6-115      35.15
6-116      35.16
6-117      35.30
6-118      35.31
6-119      35.32
6-120      35.33
6-121      35.34
6-122      35.35
6-123      35.36
6-124      35.37
6-125      35.38
6-126      35.39
6-127      35.40
6-128      35.41
6-129      35.42
6-130      35.43
6-131      35.44
6-132      35.45
7-101      32.01
7-102      32.02
7-103      32.03
7-104      32.04
7-105      32.05
7-106      32.06
7-107      32.07
7-108      32.08
7-109      32.09
7-201      32.20
7-202      32.21
7-203      32.32
7-204      32.33
7-205      32.34
7-206      32.35
7-207      32.36
7-208      32.37
7-209      32.60
7-210      32.61,
           32.99
7-211      32.62
7-212      32.63
7-212      32.99
7-213      32.64
7-214      32.65
7-215      32.38
7-216      32.39
7-217      32.40
7-218      32.41,
           32.99
7-219      32.42
7-220      32.43
7-221      32.44
7-222      32.45
7-223      32.46
7-224      32.47
7-225      32.48
7-226      32.49
8-101      94.35
8-102      94.36
8-103      94.37
8-104      94.38
8-105      94.39
8-106      94.40
8-107      94.41
8-108      94.42
8-109      94.43,
           94.99
8-110      94.44
8-111      94.45
8-112      94.46
8-113      94.47
8-114      94.48
8-115      94.99
8-201      94.60,
           94.99
8-202      94.61
8-203      94.62
8-204      94.99
8-301      92.01
8-302      92.02
8-303      92.03
8-304      92.04
8-305      92.05
8-306      92.06
8-307      92.07
8-308      92.08
8-309      92.09
8-310      92.10
8-311      92.11
8-312      92.12
8-313      92.13
8-401      94.01
8-402      94.02
8-403      94.03
9-101      110.01
9-102      110.02
9-103      110.03
9-104      110.04
9-105      110.05
9-106      110.06
9-107      110.07
9-108      110.08
9-109      110.09
9-110      110.99
9-120      114.01
9-121      114.02
9-122      114.03
9-123      114.04
9-124      114.05
9-125      114.06
9-126      114.07
9-127      114.99
9-201      111.01
9-202      111.02
9-203      111.03
9-204      111.99
10-101     130.01
10-102     130.02
10-201     131.01,
           131.99
10-202     131.02
10-203     131.03
10-204     131.04
10-205     131.05
10-206     131.06
10-207     131.07
10-208     131.08
10-209     131.09
10-210     131.10
10-211     131.11
10-212     131.12
10-213     131.13
10-214     131.14
10-215     131.15
10-301     132.01
10-302     132.02
10-303     132.03
10-304     132.04
10-305     132.05
10-306     132.06
10-307     132.07
10-308     132.08
10-309     132.09
10-401     133.01
10-402     133.01
10-403     133.01
10-404     133.02
10-405     133.03
10-406     133.04
10-407     133.04
10-408     133.04
10-409     133.05
10-410     133.06
10-411     133.06
10-412     133.07
10-413     133.08
10-414     133.09
10-415     133.10
10-418     133.11
10-419     133.12
10-420     133.13
10-421     133.14,
           133.99
10-422     133.15,
           133.99
10-423     133.16,
           133.99
10-501     132.10
10-601     134.01
10-602     134.02
10-603     134.03
10-604     134.04
10-605     134.05
10-606     134.06
10-607     134.07
10-608     134.08
10-609     134.09
10-610     150.001
10-701     130.99
12-101     153.01
12-102     153.02
12-103     153.03
12-104     153.04
12-301     153.15,
           153.99
12-401     153.16,
           153.99
12-501     91.01
12-502     91.02
12-503     91.03
12-504     91.04
12-505     91.05
12-506     91.06
12-507     91.07
12-508     91.08
12-509     91.09
12-510     91.10,
           91.99
12-511     91.11,
           91.99
12-512     91.12
12-513     91.13
12-515     91.14,
           91.99
12-601     152.01
12-602     152.02
12-603     152.03
12-604     152.04
12-605     152.05
12-606     152.06
12-607     152.99
13-101     94.15
13-102     94.16
13-103     94.17
13-104     94.18
13-105     94.19
13-106     94.20
13-107     94.99
13-201     34.01
13-202     34.02
13-203     34.03
13-204     34.04
13-301     33.15
13-302     33.16
13-303     33.17
13-304     33.18
13-305     33.19
13-401     34.15
13-402     34.16
13-403     34.17
13-404     34.18
13-405     34.19
13-406     34.20
13-407     34.21
13-408     34.22
13-409     34.23
13-410     34.24
13-411     34.25
14-101     93.01
14-102     93.02
14-103     93.03
14-104     93.04
14-105     93.05
14-106     93.06
14-107     93.07
14-108     93.08
14-109     93.09
14-110     93.10
14-111     93.11
14-112     93.99
14-201     93.25
14-202     93.26
14-203     93.27
14-204     93.99
15-101     70.01
15-102     70.02
15-103     70.15
15-104     70.16,
           70.99
15-105     70.17
15-106     70.18
15-107     70.19
15-108     70.20
15-109     70.21
15-110     70.22
15-111     70.23
15-112     70.24
15-113     70.25
15-114     70.26
15-115     70.27
15-116     70.28
15-117     70.40
15-118     70.41
15-119     70.42
15-120     70.43
15-121     70.44
15-122     70.45
15-123     70.46
15-124     70.47
15-125     70.29
15-126     70.03
15-127     70.04
15-201     71.01
15-202     71.02
15-203     71.03
15-204     71.04
15-205     71.05
15-206     71.06
15-207     71.07
15-208     71.08
15-209     71.09
15-210     71.10
15-211     71.11
15-212     71.12
15-213     71.13
15-214     71.14
15-215     71.15
15-216     71.16
15-216A    71.17
15-217     71.18
15-220     71.19
15-221     71.20
15-230     72.01
15-231     72.02
15-232     72.03
15-233     72.04
15-234     72.05
15-235     72.06
15-236     72.07
15-237     72.08
15-238     72.09
15-239     72.10
15-240     72.11
15-241     72.12,
           72.99
15-250     71.35
15-251     71.36
15-252     71.37
15-301     73.01
15-302     73.02
15-303     73.03
15-304     73.04
15-305     73.05
15-306     73.06
15-307     73.07
15-308     73.08
15-309     73.09
15-310     73.10
15-311     73.11
15-312     73.12
15-313     73.13
15-314     73.14
15-401     74.01
15-402     74.02
15-403     74.03
15-404     74.04
15-405     74.05
15-406     74.06
15-407     74.07
15-408     74.08
15-409     74.09
15-501     75.01
15-502     75.02
15-503     75.03
15-504     75.04
15-505     75.05
15-506     75.06
15-507     75.07
15-508     75.08
15-509     75.09
15-510     75.10
15-511     75.11
15-512     75.12
15-513     75.13
15-514     75.14
15-515     75.15
15-601     70.99
16-101     76.01
16-102     76.02
16-103     76.03
16-104     76.04
16-105     90.01
17-101     50.01
17-102     50.02
17-103     50.03
17-104     50.04
17-105     50.05
17-106     50.06
17-107     50.07
17-108     50.08
17-109     50.09
17-201     51.01
17-202     51.02
17-203     51.03
17-204     51.04
17-205     51.05
17-206     51.06
17-207     51.07
17-208     51.08
17-209     51.09
17-210     51.10
17-211     51.99
17-301     52.01
17-302     52.02
17-303     52.03
17-304     52.04
17-305     52.05
17-306     52.06
17-307     52.07
17-308     52.08
17-309     52.09
17-310     52.10
17-311     52.11
17-401     53.01
17-402     53.02
17-403     53.03
17-404     53.04
17-405     53.05
17-406     53.06
17-407     53.99
17-501     55.01
17-502     55.02
17-503     55.03
17-504     55.04
17-505     55.05
17-506     55.06
17-507     55.07
17-508     55.08
17-601     50.20
17-602     50.21
17-603     50.22
17-604     50.23
17-605     50.24
17-606     50.25
17-607     50.26
17-608     50.27
17-609     50.28
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
97-11    10-7-1996   TSO Table II
2006-04  8-21-2006   33.01
2006-05  9-18-2006   33.01
2008-06  - -2006     33.01
2008-03  2- -2008    TSO Table I
2008-04  2- -2008    TSO Table I
2008-05  2-19-2008   52.12
08-17    3-3-2008    TSO Table I
2011-05  10-17-2011  TSO Table I
2012-02  5-21-2012   TSO Table III
2014-04  8-18-2014   TSO Table III
2016-09  8-1-2016    TSO Table IV
2018-04  8-6-2018    94.04
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        8-3-1987    90.07
-        2-4-1991    50.05
-        5-17-1993   50.03
-        12-6-1993   70.16
-        11-3-1997   31.07
-        11-1-1999   133.08
-        10-16-2000  132.03
-        1-6-2003    30.02
-        2-18-2003   10.99
-        6-20-2005   150.019
-        5-21-2007   30.03
-        5-19-2008   31.07
2009-04  8-17-2009   TSO Table II
2011-04  10-3-2011   TSO Table II
2014-002 4-21-2014   TSO Table II
                     111.15 -
2017-04  4-3-2017    111.27,
                     111.99
2017-5   6-5-2017    TSO Table IV
2017-06  7-3-2017    133.02
                     36.01-
2017-7   8-21-2017   36.03,
                     36.99
2017-8   9-5-2017    71.02
2017-02  10-2-2017   34.03
2017-13  10-2-2017   TSO Table IV
2018-02  3-5-2018    TSO Table IV
                     92.25 -
                     92.28,
2018-03  7-2-2018    94.01 -
                     94.03,
                     94.99
                     36.01 -
2018-05  9-4-2018    36.03,
                     36.99
2018-07  9-17-2018   113.20 -
                     113.28
2018-09  10-1-2018   93.40 -
                     93.46
2018-11  11-5-2018   32.37
                     151.01-
                     151.13,
                     151.25 -
2019-02  3-4-2019    151.29,
                     151.40 -
                     151.42,
                     151.99
2018-01  3-19-2019   114.20 -
                     114.25
2019-03  4-1-2019    32.06
                     113.01 -
2019-05  10-7-2019   113.08,
                     113.28
2019-06  11-4-2019   150.019
2020-01  2-3-2020    34.03
2020-02  2-3-2020    132.03
2020-03  6-1-2020    74.20 - 74.26
                     54.01 -
2022-02  - -2022     54.09,
                     54.99
                    
 
 
