CITY CODE
OF
STROUD, OK
Code current through:
Ord. 372, passed 4-10-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Stroud, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 372, passed 4-10-2025. Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Ordinances listed have been passed, but have not been incorporated in the
actual code. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ADOPTING ORDINANCE 255
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF STROUD,
OKLAHOMA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN,
EXCEPT AS HEREAFTER PROVIDED; PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME
EFFECTIVE; PROVIDING FOR SALE AND COPIES IN THE CLERK'S OFFICE; AND PROVIDING
FOR SUPPLEMENTS OR CHANGES TO CODE:
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF STROUD, OKLAHOMA:
SECTION 1   TITLE.
   A code and revision of the ordinances of the city of Stroud is hereby
adopted as the "code of ordinances, city of Stroud, Oklahoma," or by any other
properly identifying designation.
SECTION 2   CODE SUPERSEDES OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This code shall be treated and considered as a new and comprehensive
ordinance of the city which shall supersede all other general and permanent
ordinances enacted by the council prior to November 13, 2009 except such as by
reference thereto are expressly saved from repeal or continued in force and
effect for any purpose.
SECTION 3   EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE REPEAL.
   All provisions of this code shall be in full force and effect from the date
this ordinance becomes law. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the city in effect on or before November 13, 2009 and not in the code or
recognized and continued in force by reference herein and which are in conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 4   ORDINANCES NOT REPEALED.
   The repeal provided for in section 3 hereof shall not affect any ordinance
adopted after November 13, 2009 and before the effective date of this code; nor
shall the repeal affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or
forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the
effective date of this ordinance; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance or
resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's
indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city; nor shall the
repeal affect the administrative regulations or resolutions of the city council
not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of the code, nor shall the
repeal affect any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of
the city council to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall the repeal
affect any zoning ordinances, or amendments to the land use plan; nor shall the
repeal affect any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city; nor
shall the repeal affect any annual budget or salary ordinance; nor shall the
repeal affect any ordinance levying or imposing taxes; nor shall the repeal
affect any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any
street in the city; nor shall the repeal affect any ordinance providing for
local improvements and assessing charges therefor; nor shall the repeal affect
any ordinance extending the limits of the city; nor shall the repeal be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance; nor shall the repeal
affect any ordinance or resolution establishing rates, fees or charges, except
those specifically re-established in this code, until the council re-
establishes such rates, fees or charges by ordinance or resolution. The
continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances and parts of
ordinances, although omitted from the code, shall not be affected by such
omission therefrom; and the adoption of the code shall not repeal or amend any
such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
SECTION 5   CODE NOT NEW ENACTMENT.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this code, shall be
considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
SECTION 6   ORDINANCES ADOPTED AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE OF CODE.
   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature passed
or adopted on and after the effective date of this code may be passed or
adopted either:
   1.    In the form of amendments to the code of ordinances adopted by this
ordinance; or
   2.    Without specific reference to the code.
In either case, all such ordinances and parts of ordinances shall be deemed
amendments to the code. All of the substantive permanent and general parts of
such ordinances and changes made thereby in the code, shall be inserted and
made in the code whenever authorized or directed by motion, resolution or
ordinance of the city council, as provided hereinafter.
SECTION 7   SUPPLEMENTS TO CODE.
   By contract or by city personnel, a change, or supplement, to the code of
ordinances adopted by this ordinance shall be prepared and printed whenever
authorized or directed by the city council. A change to the code shall include
all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the council
or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the change
and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a change shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
up to date to the date to which the code is being brought up to date. Each
change shall include a new title page for the code; and the title page shall
include a notation below the title indicating that the code contains all
permanent and general ordinances and parts of ordinances passed prior to the
date to which the code is brought up to date and still in effect. The words "as
amended" and the date may be added to the title after the year. After every
change has been prepared and printed, a number of copies of the change equal at
least to the number of copies of the code still in existence, shall be
deposited in the office of the city clerk. The city clerk, if possible, shall
notify each holder of a copy of the original code about the availability of the
change or supplement.
SECTION 8   SALE OF COPIES OF THE CODE.
   The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to sell copies of the code
of ordinances to the public at a price determined from time to time by motion
or resolution of the city council.
SECTION 9   COPY OF CODE IN CLERK'S OFFICE.
   A copy of the current code as amended or supplemented from time to time
shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk. This copy of the code
shall be available for all persons desiring to examine it; it shall be
considered the official code of ordinances of the city, and may be so certified
by the city clerk as may be required.
SECTION 10   PREPARATION OF CODE.
   The code of ordinances hereby adopted was prepared by Sterling Codifiers and
consists of seventeen (17) parts, all of which have been examined, considered
and approved by the council of the city of Stroud and adopted by compliance
with sections
14-109 et seq. of title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
YEAS: Jim Thompson, Steve Beck, Jerry Murfin, Phyllis Craig and Debbie Garrett
NAYS:
ABSENT:
Passed and approved this 10th day of March, 2011.
            /s/
            Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
Clerk
TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
USE AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE CODE
SECTION:
1-101: How Code Designated And Cited
1-102: Rules Of Construction
1-103: Catchlines Of Sections; Citations
1-104: Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
1-105: Severability Of Parts Of Code
1-106: Amendment To Code; Effect Of New Ordinances; Amendatory Language
1-107: Altering Code
1-108: General Penalty
1-109: Fines Recoverable By Civil Action
1-110: Ordinances In Effect In Outlying Territory Of City
1-101: HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED:
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute
and be designated the CODE OF ORDINANCES, CITY OF STROUD, OKLAHOMA, and may be
so cited. (2000 Code §
1-101)
1-102: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the following rules are
observed, unless the construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the council:
CITY OR THIS CITY: Shall be construed as if the words "of Stroud, Oklahoma,"
followed them.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be
done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing the
time, but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Stroud.
COUNTY OR THIS COUNTY: The county of Lincoln, Oklahoma.
GENDER: A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to other
genders and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving "joint authority" to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
LAW: Includes applicable federal law, provisions of the constitution and
statutes of the state of Oklahoma, the ordinances of the city, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
MANAGER OR CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS: Words and phrases which are not specifically
defined shall be construed according to the common and accepted usage of the
language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired
a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood
according to such meaning.
NUMBER: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to
several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words used in
the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary intention
plainly appears.
OATH: Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the
words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and
"affirmed".
OR, AND: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
OTHER OFFICIALS OR OFFICERS, ETC.: Whenever reference is made to officers,
agencies or departments by title only, i.e., "clerk", "city clerk", "city
attorney", "fire chief", "chief of police", etc., they shall mean the officers,
agencies or departments of the city.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons, and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
STATE OR THIS STATE: Shall be construed to mean the state of Oklahoma.
STATUTORY REFERENCES: References to statutes of the state of Oklahoma as they
now are or as they may be amended to be.
STREET: Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts, highways, courts, places, squares, curbs and all other
public ways in the city which are dedicated and open to public use.
TENSE: Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as well as
the past and present.
WEEK: Seven (7) days.
YEAR: A calendar year. (2000 Code §
1-102)
1-103: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; CITATIONS:
The catchlines of sections in this code are printed in capital letters and
citations included at the end of sections are intended to indicate the contents
of the section and original historical source respectively, and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles and official sources of such sections; nor as any
part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines or citations, are amended or
reenacted. (2000 Code §
1-103)
1-104: EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES:
   A.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   B.   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance
repealed. (2000 Code §
1-104)
1-105: SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are severable, and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this code, or of any
ordinance in the code, shall be declared unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise
invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction,
such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code of
ordinances. (2000 Code §
1-105)
1-106: AMENDMENT TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE:
   A.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code of ordinances may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection,
or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages.
   B.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language: "Be it ordained by the city council of
the city of Stroud, Oklahoma, that section          of the code of ordinances
of the city of Stroud, Oklahoma, is hereby amended to read as follows:" (set
out new provisions in full).
   C.   When the council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which the
board desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the
following language may be made part of the ordinance:
Section          Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Stroud,
Oklahoma, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part
of the code of ordinances of the city of Stroud, Oklahoma, and the sections of
this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish this intention.
   D.   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to
be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the
case may be. (2000 Code §
1-106)
1-107: ALTERING CODE:
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any
part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof,
or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever which will cause
the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this
section shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this chapter. (2000 Code §
1-107)
1-108: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by state law, whenever in this code or in
any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
provision of this code or of any ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine, including costs, of not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00), not
including costs, or by imprisonment for not more than ten (10) days, or both
such fine and imprisonment. Each day or any portion of a day during which any
violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense. (2000 Code §
1-108)
      1.   Criminal Offenses:
         a.   Costs, as defined pursuant to 11 Oklahoma Statutes supplement,
2009, section 27-126, for all municipal criminal offenses, are hereby amended
to thirty dollars ($30.00) for each offense;
         b.   Fines or deferral fees, as defined pursuant to 11 Oklahoma
Statutes supplement, 2009, section
14-111(C), are hereby amended to a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
offense for any alcohol or drug related offenses, not including public
intoxication;
         c.   Fines or deferral fees, as defined pursuant to 11 Oklahoma
Statutes supplement, 2009, section
14-111(C), are hereby amended to a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for any offense except speeding or parking related offenses;
         d.   Fines or deferral fees, as defined pursuant to 11 Oklahoma
Statutes supplement, 2009, section
14-111(C), as they relate solely to speeding or parking offenses shall be
amended to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200.00) per offense;
         e.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) of each alcohol fine or deferral fee shall
be set aside in a special fund used to defray the costs from court enforcement
of laws related to juvenile access to alcohol, other laws relating to alcohol
and other intoxicating substances and traffic related offenses involving
alcohol or other intoxicating substances. (Ord. 254, 2-10-2011)
   B.   Any person who shall aid, abet or assist in the violation of any
provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this
section. (2000 Code §
1-108)
1-109: FINES RECOVERABLE BY CIVIL ACTION:
All fines shall be recoverable by civil action before any court of competent
jurisdiction in addition to any other method provided by law. (2000 Code §
1-109)
1-110: ORDINANCES IN EFFECT IN OUTLYING TERRITORY OF CITY:
All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended to
all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city outside the
corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar as
they are applicable. All ordinances of the city which shall go into effect in
the future, shall also apply to, and be in full effect within, the boundaries
of all outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any words in
any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is limited
to the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to mean and include also
the outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (2000 Code §
1-110)
CHAPTER 2
CORPORATE AND WARD LIMITS
SECTION:
1-201: Ward Number And Boundaries
1-201: WARD NUMBER AND BOUNDARIES:
The city is hereby divided into four (4) wards as follows:
   A.   Ward No. 1: All that part of the city lying west of the center of 8th
Avenue (SH 99); and the NW/4 of 34-15N-6E, less southside addition, and all of
the land hereafter brought within the city limits of the city lying west of the
centerline of 8th Avenue (SH 99).
   B.   Ward No. 2: All that part of the city of Stroud lying north of the
center of Elm Street and south of the center of 7th Street and east of the
center of 8th Avenue (SH 99) and west of the center of 3rd Avenue.
   C.   Ward No. 3: All that part of the city of Stroud, lying north of the
center of the railroad right of way and south of the centerline of 7th Street
and east of the centerline of 3rd Avenue and west of the centerline of Harrison
Avenue, Poplar Avenue, and North Ford Avenue, as the said avenues now are in
existence; also, all that part of the city of Stroud lying north of the
centerline of 7th Street and south of the centerline of 10th Street and east of
the centerline of 6th Avenue and west of the centerline of Cedar Avenue.
   D.   Ward No. 4: All that part of the city lying east of 8th Avenue (SH 99),
except the following:
      1.   The property comprising Ward 2 as above described.
      2.   The property comprising Ward 3 as above described.
      3.   NW/4 of 34-15N-6E, less southside addition.
but to include all of the land hereafter brought within the city limits of the
city lying east of the centerline of 8th Avenue (SH 99). (Ord. 189, 2-13-2003)
TITLE 2
ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNMENT
CHAPTER 1
GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
2-101: Council Manager Form Of Government
2-101: COUNCIL MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The city is governed by the statutory council manager form of government. The
powers of the city are vested in the city council. (2000 Code §
2-101)
CHAPTER 2
THE COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-201: City Council Membership And Election
2-202: Time Of Regular Meetings Of The Council
2-203: Place Of Meetings Of The Council
2-201: CITY COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP AND ELECTION:
   A.   The city council consists of one council member from each ward of the
city and one council member at large. The terms of the council members are
staggered so that at any one general municipal election, the following council
members are to be elected for four (4) year terms:
      1.   Council members from wards 1 and 2.
   B.   At the next general municipal election, the following officers are to
be elected for four (4) year terms:
      1.   Council members from wards 3 and 4; and
      2.   The council member at large. (2000 Code §
2-201)
2-202: TIME OF REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
The council of the city shall hold a regular meeting at five o’clock (5:00)
p.m. on the second Thursday of every month. If such day falls on a holiday, the
regular meeting shall be held at that time on the next day which is not a
holiday. (Ord. 249, 11-12-2009; amd. Ord. 368. 1-11-2024)
2-203: PLACE OF MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
Every meeting of the council shall be held in the council chamber in the city
hall unless, in case of an emergency, the mayor or the council member calling a
special meeting, designate another place in the city for the holding of the
special meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held at any other place within
the city designated by the council. (2000 Code §
2-203)
CHAPTER 3
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
2-301: City Manager Appointment
2-302: Duties
2-301: CITY MANAGER APPOINTMENT:
The council shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term by a vote of a
majority of all its members. It shall choose him solely on the basis of his
executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his
actual experience in, or his knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the
duties of his office. (2000 Code §
2-301)
2-302: DUTIES:
The city manager shall be the chief executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. He shall execute the laws and
administer the government of the city, and shall be responsible therefor to the
council. He shall:
   A.   Appoint, and when necessary for the good of the service, remove,
demote, lay off or suspend, all heads of administrative departments and other
administrative officers and employees of the city, except as otherwise provided
by law. The manager or the council, by ordinance, may authorize the head of a
department, office or agency to appoint and remove the subordinates in such
department, office or agency;
   B.   Supervise and control all administrative departments, officers and
agencies;
   C.   Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the council and be
responsible for the administration of the budget after it goes into effect; and
recommend to the council any changes in the budget which he deems desirable;
   D.   Submit to the council a report after the end of the fiscal year on the
finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year;
   E.   Keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs of
the city, and make recommendations as he deems desirable; and
   F.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by ordinance.
(2000 Code §
2-302)
CHAPTER 4
CITY CLERK AND CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
2-401: City Clerk And Duties
2-402: City Treasurer And Duties
2-403: Clerk And Treasurer's Offices Combined
2-401: CITY CLERK AND DUTIES:
   A.   There shall be a department of finance, the head of which shall be the
city clerk, appointed by the city manager for an indefinite term, and removable
by the manager. The city clerk shall be an officer of the city, and shall have
supervision and control of the department of finance.
   B.   The city clerk shall collect or receive revenue and other money for the
city, and shall deposit the same daily with the city treasurer or for the city
treasurer in an account or accounts maintained by the city treasurer in a
depository or depositories. The city clerk shall maintain a general accounting
system for the city government. He shall have such other powers, duties and
functions as may be prescribed by applicable law or by ordinance. (2000 Code §
2-401)
2-402: CITY TREASURER AND DUTIES:
   A.   Within the department of finance, there shall be a city treasurer, who
shall be an officer of the city and who shall be appointed by the council for
an indefinite term. The same person may hold both the office of city clerk and
the office of city treasurer; that is, the council may appoint as the city
treasurer the same person whom the manager has appointed as city clerk, and
vice versa.
   B.   The city treasurer shall deposit daily all funds coming into his hands
in such depositories as the council may designate; and shall disburse such
funds in the manner provided by applicable law or ordinance. He shall have such
other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by applicable law or by
ordinance. (2000 Code §
2-402)
2-403: CLERK AND TREASURER'S OFFICES COMBINED:
The offices of city clerk and city treasurer of the city may be held by the
same person, all as authorized by applicable state law. (2000 Code §
2-403)
CHAPTER 5
OTHER OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
2-501: Department Of Law; City Attorney
2-502: Public Works Department; Superintendent
2-503: Duties Of Public Works Department
2-504: Department Of Health; Health Officer
2-505: Library Department; Board; Librarian
2-506: Officers And Employees; Number And Classes; Compensation
2-507: Certain Personnel To Be Bonded
2-501: DEPARTMENT OF LAW; CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   There shall be a department of law, the head of which shall be the city
attorney, appointed by the city manager for an indefinite term, and removable
by the manager. The city attorney shall be an officer of the city, and shall
have supervision and control of the department of law.
   B.   The city attorney shall be the chief legal adviser of the council, all
officers, departments and agencies of the city government in matters relating
to their official powers and duties. He shall represent the city in proceedings
in the courts. He shall perform all services incident to his position which may
be required by law or ordinance. (2000 Code §
2-501)
2-502: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT; SUPERINTENDENT:
There shall be a public works department, the head of which shall be the
superintendent of public works, appointed by the city manager for an indefinite
term, and removable by the manager; provided, that the city manager shall be ex
officio superintendent of public works unless he appoints another to serve in
this capacity. The superintendent of public works shall be an officer of the
city, and shall have supervision and control of the public works department.
(2000 Code §
2-502)
2-503: DUTIES OF PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the duty of the public works department, insofar as the city
government performs these functions with its own personnel:
   A.   To construct, improve, maintain and clean streets, including alleys and
other public ways, bridges and sidewalks; to install and maintain streetlights,
traffic control signs, markings, signals and devices; to erect and maintain
street name signs; and to supervise the use of streets by privately owned
utilities;
   B.   To construct, improve, maintain and operate storm and sanitary sewers
and sewage disposal facilities;
   C.   To maintain all buildings and grounds used by the city;
   D.   To maintain and operate all parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, and
other recreational facilities operated by the city;
   E.   To maintain and operate all city owned cemeteries;
   F.   To collect and dispose of refuse insofar as the city provides this
service;
   G.   To maintain city owned motor equipment;
   H.   To maintain and operate the water system and the electric utility; and
   I.   To perform such other functions relating to the maintenance, repair,
improvement and operation of the physical facilities owned or used by the city
government as the city manager may prescribe consistent with law and ordinance.
(2000 Code §
2-503)
2-504: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH; HEALTH OFFICER:
   A.   There shall be a department of health, the head of which shall be the
city manager or other person appointed by the city manager for an indefinite
term, and removable by the manager. Any mention in the ordinances of the city
of the "superintendent of health" or "superintendent of public health" shall be
deemed to refer to the health officer, unless otherwise indicated by the
context in which such words may be found. He shall be an officer of the city,
and shall have supervision and control of the department of health.
   B.   The department of health shall perform such duties, and have such
powers, as may be prescribed by ordinance, law and the rules and regulations of
the state department of health. (2000 Code §
2-504)
2-505: LIBRARY DEPARTMENT; BOARD; LIBRARIAN:
   A.   There shall be a library department, which shall be under the
supervision and control of a library board of five (5) members. The city
manager shall appoint the members for terms of five (5) years and until their
successors have been appointed and have qualified; provided, that the first
members shall be appointed so that the term of one member shall expire at seven
thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. on the first Monday in May in each of the first five
(5) calendar years; and thereafter the term of one member shall expire at seven
thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. on the first Monday in May every year. The members
shall serve without compensation.
   B.   Every year, as soon after the time prescribed for the beginning of the
term of a new member as practicable, the board shall elect a chairperson and a
vice chairperson from its own membership, and a secretary, who need not be a
member of the board. The board shall determine the time and place of its
regular meetings; and the city manager, the chairperson or any three (3)
members of the board may call special meetings of the board.
   C.   The board shall supervise and control the public library or libraries
of the city; shall appoint, and may remove, the librarian and all personnel of
the department, except as the board may authorize the librarian to appoint
temporary or part time employees; and shall adopt and may change regulations
for the administration and operation of the libraries. The librarian, subject
to the authority of the library board, shall have supervision and control of
the library or libraries, including all personnel thereof. (2000 Code §
2-505)
2-506: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; NUMBER AND CLASSES; COMPENSATION:
The council, by motion, resolution or ordinance, may regulate the number and
classes of offices and positions of employment in the various departments,
offices and agencies of the city government, and may determine or regulate the
compensation to be paid to officers and employees. (2000 Code §
2-506)
2-507: CERTAIN PERSONNEL TO BE BONDED:
   A.   Before entering upon their official duties, the following personnel of
the city government shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of their
official duties, payable to the city, with a surety company authorized to
operate within the state, in the amounts set by the city from year to year when
the city acquires such bonds:
      1.   City manager;
      2.   City clerk;
      3.   City treasurer; and
      4.   City clerk and city treasurer, in case same person holds both
offices.
   B.   The council, by motion or resolution, may require other officers and
employees in such positions as it may designate to be bonded. The city shall
pay the premiums on such bonds. (2000 Code §
2-507)
CHAPTER 6
SOCIAL SECURITY
SECTION:
2-601: Declaration Of Policy To Come Under Coverage
2-602: Execution Of Agreement With State Agency
2-603: Withholdings
2-604: Contributions
2-605: Records And Reports
2-606: Exclusions
2-601: DECLARATION OF POLICY TO COME UNDER COVERAGE:
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend, at
the earliest date, to the eligible employees and officials of the city the
benefits of the system of federal old age and survivors insurance as authorized
by the federal social security act and all amendments thereto, and 51 Oklahoma
Statutes section 121 et seq. In pursuance of this policy, the officers and
employees of the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable
state or federal laws or regulations. (2000 Code §
2-601)
2-602: EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT WITH STATE AGENCY:
The mayor is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and
amendments with the state department of institutions, social and rehabilitative
services to accomplish the provisions of section
2-601 of this chapter. (2000 Code §
2-602)
2-603: WITHHOLDINGS:
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purposes
provided in section
2-601 of this chapter are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at
such times as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated
by the laws and regulations. (2000 Code §
2-603)
2-604: CONTRIBUTIONS:
Employer contributions shall be paid from amounts appropriated for these
purposes from available funds to the designated state or federal agency in
accordance with applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (2000 Code §
2-604)
2-605: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The city shall keep such records and submit such reports as may be required by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations. (2000 Code §
2-605)
2-606: EXCLUSIONS:
Excluded from this chapter authorizing the extension of social security
benefits to city officers and employees are the following:
   A.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official now covered or authorized to be covered by any other
ordinance creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the
city; or
   B.   Any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position,
employee or official for which compensation is on a fee basis, or any position,
employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or
federal laws or regulations. (2000 Code §
2-606)
CHAPTER 7
RETIREMENT AND PENSIONS
SECTION:
Article A. Employee Retirement System
2-701: Employee Retirement System Created
2-702: Administration
2-703: Fund
2-704: Appropriations
2-705: Execution
2-706: Conflicting Laws
Article B. Fire Pension System
2-720: Local Fire Pension And Retirement Board
2-721: Fund To Be Operated In Accordance With Law
2-722: Contributions To Fund
ARTICLE A. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
2-701: EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM CREATED:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the state and for the
purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the part of city
employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is hereby authorized,
created, established, approved and adopted, effective as of January 1, 2025,
the amended and restated plan designated "Employee Retirement System of the
City of Stroud, Oklahoma, Defined Benefit Plan" (hereinafter called "system"),
and all amendments thereto, an executed counterpart which is marked exhibit A
and exhibit B, which are attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference,
are kept on file with the city clerk. (2000 Code § 2-701; amd. Ord. 344, 11-14-
2019; Ord. 370, 11-14-2024)
2-702: ADMINISTRATION:
For the purpose of administration of the system, there is hereby established a
board of trustees, which shall be the members of the city council as now
existing or as from time to time duly elected or appointed and constituted. The
powers and duties of the board of trustees shall be set forth in the system
instrument marked exhibit A as mentioned in section 2-701 of this chapter.
(2000 Code § 2-702)
2-703: FUND:
A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the person
entitled to benefits under the system. All contributions to such fund shall be
paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the city. Such fund
shall be pooled for purposes of management and investment with similar funds of
other incorporated cities, towns and municipal trusts in the state as a part of
the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund, in accordance with the trust agreement
of the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund, a public trust. The city shall hold
such contributions in the form received, and from time to time pay over and
transfer the same to the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund, as duly authorized
and directed by the board of trustees. The fund shall be nonfiscal and shall
not be considered in computing any levy when the annual estimate is made to the
county excise board. (2000 Code § 2-703; amd. Ord. 344, 11-14-2019)
2-704: APPROPRIATIONS:
The city is hereby authorized to incur the necessary expenses for the
establishment, operation and administration of the system and to appropriate
and pay the same. In addition, the city is hereby authorized to appropriate
annually such amounts as are required in addition to employee contributions to
maintain the system and the fund in accordance with the provisions of the
defined benefit plan. Any appropriation so made to maintain the system and fund
shall be for deferred wages or salaries and for the payment of necessary
expenses of operation and administration to be transferred to the trustees of
the Oklahoma municipal retirement fund for such purposes and shall be paid into
the fund when available, to be duly transferred to the Oklahoma municipal
retirement fund. (2000 Code § 2-704; amd. Ord. 344, 11-14-2019)
2-705: EXECUTION:
   A.   The mayor and city clerk be and they are each hereby authorized and
directed to execute (in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an
original) the system instrument, and to do all other acts and things necessary,
advisable and proper to put the system and related trust into full force and
effect, and to make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the
same under sections 401(a) and 501(a) of the internal revenue code of the
United States. The counterpart marked exhibit A and exhibit B, which has been
duly executed as aforesaid simultaneously with the passage of this chapter and
made a part hereof, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
   B.   This city council hereby authorized and directed to proceed immediately
on behalf of the city to pool and combine the fund into the Oklahoma municipal
retirement fund as a part thereof, with similar funds of such other cities and
towns, for the purposes of pooled management and investment. (2000 Code § 2-
705; amd. Ord. 344, 11-14-2019)
2-706: CONFLICTING LAWS:
Any ordinance inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this chapter is
hereby repealed; provided, however, that such repeal shall be only to the
extent of such inconsistency and in all other respects this chapter shall be
cumulative of other ordinances regulating and governing subject matter covered
by this chapter. (2000 Code § 2-706; amd. Ord. 344, 11-14-2019)
ARTICLE B. FIRE PENSION SYSTEM
2-720: LOCAL FIRE PENSION AND RETIREMENT BOARD:
There is hereby created a local firefighters' pension and retirement board,
composed of the mayor, the clerk, the treasurer and three (3) members from the
fire department. The board shall have the membership, organization, powers,
duties and functions as prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 49-103 et
seq. (2000 Code § 2-720)
2-721: FUND TO BE OPERATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW:
The city firefighters' pension and retirement system and fund shall be operated
in accordance with state law relating to the fund and system. (2000 Code § 2-
721)
2-722: CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUND:
   A.   The clerk shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each paid member
of the fire department the amounts which are required by applicable state law.
   B.   The city treasurer shall deposit monthly with the Oklahoma
firefighters' pension and retirement board the amounts of money which are
required by applicable state law for each paid member of the fire department.
   C.   For each volunteer member of the fire department, the city treasurer
shall deposit yearly with the Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement
board the amounts of money which are required by applicable state law. These
amounts may be revised according to actuarial studies and amounts as set by the
Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement board.
   D.   All assets of the city firefighters' pension and retirement fund shall
be transferred to the Oklahoma firefighters' pension and retirement board.
Assets shall be transferred in the form of cash, negotiable securities and such
other specific assets as permitted by the state board. (2000 Code § 2-722)
CHAPTER 8
CITY RECORDS
SECTION:
2-801: Appointment Of Official Custodians
2-802: Designation Of Additional Record Custodians
2-803: Duties Of Custodians
2-804: Requests To Be Directed To Custodians
2-805: Procedures Regarding Both Inspection And Copying Of Open Public Records
2-806: Procedures Regarding Inspection Of Open Public Records
2-807: Procedures Regarding Copies Of Open Public Records
2-808: No Fee For Inspection
2-809: Copying Fee
2-810: Fee For Mechanical Reproduction
2-811: Search Fee
2-812: Prepayment Of Fees
2-801: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIAL CUSTODIANS:
The following city official is hereby appointed as official custodian for
purposes of the Oklahoma open records act and is charged with responsibility
for compliance with that act with respect to the following listed public
records:
   A.   City clerk. All public records kept and maintained in the city clerk's
office and all other public records not provided for elsewhere in this chapter;
and
   B.   City treasurer. All public records kept and maintained in the city
treasurer's office. (2000 Code §
2-801)
2-802: DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL RECORD CUSTODIANS:
   A.   Each of the official custodians appointed in section
2-801 of this chapter is hereby authorized to designate any subordinate
officers or employees to serve as record custodian. The record custodians shall
have such duties and powers as are set out in the Oklahoma open records act.
   B.   Whenever an official custodian shall appoint another person as a record
custodian, he shall notify the city clerk of such designation and the city
clerk shall maintain a register of all such designations. (2000 Code §
2-802)
2-803: DUTIES OF CUSTODIANS:
All city officials and employees appointed or designated under this chapter
shall:
   A.   Protect public records from damage and disorganization;
   B.   Prevent excessive disruption of the essential functions of the city;
   C.   Provide assistance and information upon request;
   D.   Ensure efficient and timely action and response to all applications for
inspection of public records; and
   E.   Carry out the procedures adopted by this city for inspecting and
copying open public records. (2000 Code §
2-803)
2-804: REQUESTS TO BE DIRECTED TO CUSTODIANS:
   A.   All members of the public, in seeking access to, or copies of, a public
record in accordance with the provisions of the Oklahoma open records act,
shall address their requests to the custodian charged with responsibility for
the maintenance of the record sought to be inspected or copied.
   B.   Whenever any city official or employee appointed or designated as a
custodian under this chapter is presented with a request for access to, or copy
of, a public record, which record the custodian does not have in his possession
and which he has not been given responsibility to keep and maintain, the
custodian shall so advise the person requesting the record. The person making
the request shall be informed as to which custodian the request should be
addressed to, if such is known by the custodian receiving the request. (2000
Code §
2-804)
2-805: PROCEDURES REGARDING BOTH INSPECTION AND COPYING OF OPEN PUBLIC RECORDS:
The following procedures are hereby adopted and shall be applied by each
official custodian and record custodian:
   A.   Consistent with the policy, duties and procedures established by the
Oklahoma open records act, record custodians shall provide full access and
assistance in a timely and efficient manner to persons who request access to
open public records;
   B.   Record custodians shall protect the integrity and organization of
public records with respect to the manner in which such records are inspected
and copied;
   C.   Record custodians may prevent excessive disruptions of essential
functions and provide the record at the earliest possible time;
   D.   All inspections and copying of open public records shall be performed
by, or under the supervision of, the record custodian responsible for such
records;
   E.   All persons requesting the inspection of or a copy of open public
records shall make such request in writing prior to the request being honored,
except that no form shall be required for requests made for records which have
been reproduced for free public distribution;
   F.   All record inspection and copying forms are to be completed by the
person requesting the record. The record custodian may demand reasonable
identification of any person requesting a record;
   G.   Any fees for record inspection or for copies are due at the time the
records, or copies thereof, are provided to the requester, unless the record
custodian has demanded that prepayment of all or part of such fees be made.
Fees are to be paid to the record custodian or city clerk;
   H.   The record custodian or city clerk shall demand full or partial
prepayment of fees whenever the estimate for such fees exceeds the amount set
out in section
2-812 of this chapter;
   I.   No record search or copying fee shall be assessed against officers or
employees of the city who make requests which are reasonably necessary to the
performance of their official duties;
   J.   Hours for making requests for inspection or copying shall be all
regular working hours for each day the office maintains regular office hours;
   K.   Removal of open public records from the office where kept and
maintained, for purposes of inspection or the making of copies, shall not be
permitted; and
   L.   The above procedures, as well as any other inspection and copying
procedures, shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office of the record
custodian. (2000 Code §
2-805)
2-806: PROCEDURES REGARDING INSPECTION OF OPEN PUBLIC RECORDS:
The following procedures are hereby adopted and shall be applied by every
official custodian and record custodian:
   A.   Record custodians shall handle all inspection requests in accordance
with their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting inspection of open public records;
   B.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the record.
In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual name to
the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the record
custodian and presented to the record custodian;
   C.   A written request is sufficient if it reasonably describes the record
sought. In instances where the requester cannot provide sufficient information
to identify a record, the custodian shall assist in making such identification;
and
   D.   The record custodian shall, upon making a denial of an inspection
request, forward a copy of the denial to the city manager. (2000 Code §
2-806)
2-807: PROCEDURES REGARDING COPIES OF OPEN PUBLIC RECORDS:
The following procedures apply regarding copies of records:
   A.   Record custodians shall handle all copy requests in accordance with
their duties to protect and preserve public records and to assist persons
requesting copies of open public records;
   B.   All request forms must be completed by the party requesting the copies.
In all cases, the party so requesting must sign his or her individual name to
the form. Written requests shall be made on the form provided by the record
custodian;
   C.   Mechanical reproduction of a record shall not be undertaken when it is
the judgment of the record custodian that any available means of mechanically
reproducing the subject record is likely to cause damage to such records; and
   D.   No copy fee shall be assessed when multiple copies of the record
requested have been prepared for free public distribution, or when the record
custodian determines that the cost of charging and handling the fee exceeds the
cost of providing a copy without charge. (2000 Code §
2-807)
2-808: NO FEE FOR INSPECTION:
Where a request has been made for the inspection of an open public record, no
fee shall be charged. (2000 Code §
2-808)
2-809: COPYING FEE:
A fee per page as set by the council by motion or resolution shall be charged
for photocopying an open public record, such fee to cover the cost of labor,
materials and equipment. (2000 Code §
2-809)
2-810: FEE FOR MECHANICAL REPRODUCTION:
For copying any open public record which cannot be reproduced by photocopying,
such as a computer printout or a blueprint, the requester shall be charged the
actual cost to the city, including the cost of labor, materials and equipment.
(2000 Code §
2-810)
2-811: SEARCH FEE:
A search fee shall be charged a requester who is using the record solely for a
commercial purpose. Such fee shall be the actual cost to the city of producing
the record, including the cost of labor, materials and equipment. (2000 Code §
2-811)
2-812: PREPAYMENT OF FEES:
A record custodian may demand prepayment of a fee whenever the estimated amount
exceeds twenty dollars ($20.00). The prepayment amount shall be an estimate of
the cost of copying, mechanical reproduction or searching for the record. Any
overage or underage in the prepayment amount shall be settled prior to
producing the requested record whenever feasible or delivering the copy or
mechanical reproduction of the record. (2000 Code §
2-812)
TITLE 3
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND MARIJUANA
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, TAXATION AND REGULATION
SECTION:
Article A. Alcoholic Beverage Tax
3-101: Definitions
3-102: Occupation Tax Levied; Licensing Requirements
3-103: Term Of License; Payment Of Fee
3-104: Certificates Of Compliance; Application And Issuance
3-105: Compliance With State And City Law
3-106: City Clerk To Make Report
3-107: To Post Tax Receipt
3-108: Payment Of Tax Required; Penalty
3-109: Additional Penalty
3-110: Recovery Of Tax
3-111: Violation Of State Law
Article B. Regulations And Restrictions
3-120: Purpose Of Article
3-121: Definitions
3-122: Separate Premises
3-123: Passageway
3-124: Sale In Containers
3-125: Not To Drink On Premises
3-126: Sale Only At Retail Store
3-127: Zoning Ordinance, Location
3-128: Restriction On Location Of Package Store, Mixed Beverage Establishment
Or Beer And Wine Establishment
3-129: Not To Sell To Persons Under Twenty One
3-130: False Documentation
3-131: Not To Sell To Intoxicated Person
3-132: Not To Drink In Public Place
3-133: Person Under Twenty One Not To Be Employed
3-134: Not To Employ Person Under Twenty One
3-135: Time Of Sale
3-136: Not To Furnish Prizes
3-137: Persons Under Twenty One Not To Be Permitted To Enter
3-138: Persons Under Twenty One Not To Enter
3-139: Time Of Delivery
3-140: General Prohibitions
3-141: Not To Permit Intoxication In Cafe
3-142: Separate Offenses
3-143: Transportation Prohibited In Open Containers
3-144: Penalty
ARTICLE A. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE TAX
3-101: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this code, words and phrases shall have the meaning as defined
pursuant to the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, at Title 37A O.S. § 1-
101, et seq., as amended. (Ord. 341, 3-14-2019) 
3-102: OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED; LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The fee schedule hereinafter set forth, shall be levied and collected
by the city clerk, or the clerk's designee, for the applicable license, fees,
permits or occupational tax levies, prior to the issuance of any such license
permit or conducting of the business of serving alcoholic beverages. The city's
fee schedule is hereby amended to reflect the fees set forth in Section B
hereof. Nothing contained herein is intended to impair the city’s ability to
amend said fees by resolution.
   B.   Occupational taxes relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages (as
defined in 37A O.S. § 1-103) are as follows:
1.   Large Brewer                                               $1,250.00
2.   Small Brewer                                               125.00
3.   Distiller                                                  3,125.00
4.   Winemaker                                                  625.00
5.   Oklahoma Winemaker                                         75.00
6.   Rectifier                                                  3,125.00
7.   Wholesaler (effective October 1, 2018: “Wine and Spirits 3,500.00
Wholesaler)
8.   Class B Wholesaler (effective October 1, 2018: “Beer     625.00
Distributor”)
9.   Retail Package Store                                       500.00
10.   Retail Wine (effective October 1, 2018)                   500.00
11.   Retail Beer (effective October 1, 2018)                   500.00
                                                                   1,005.00
                                                                   (initial
12.   Mixed Beverage                                            license)
                                                                   905.00
                                                                   (renewal)
13.   Mixed Beverage (beer and wine only)                       500.00
14.   Mixed Beverage/Caterer Combination                        1,000.00
15.   Special Event (Per Day)                                   100.00
 
(Ord. 225, 3-10-2008; amd. Ord. 341, 3-14-2019)
3-103: TERM OF LICENSE; PAYMENT OF FEE:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall expire on June 30 of
the year for which it was issued. The tax hereby levied shall be paid no later
than the first day of July following the issuance or renewal of a liquor
license by the State of Oklahoma.
   B.   The cost of a license of any type or class applied for during the
fiscal year shall be a pro rata part of the cost of the yearly license;
provided that the cost of the license shall be computed on a monthly basis.
Licenses issued on or after the fifteenth day of any month shall be charged for
on the basis of the first day of the next month.
   C.   Failure to timely pay to the city any initial or renewal occupation tax
as required hereunder shall constitute a municipal offense, the penalty for
which upon conviction shall be punished in accordance with the City of Stroud
Code. Each day in which such tax remains due and unpaid shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense. (2000 Code § 3-103; amd. Ord. 225, 3-10-2008;
Ord. 341, 3-14- 2019)
3-104: COMPLIANCE; APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE:
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of the city clerk to issue certificates
of compliance with the municipal zoning ordinances and health, safety and fire
codes as required by Title 37A of the Oklahoma Statutes. Applicants shall
furnish to the office of the city clerk such information as the city may
require together with a bond, surety, cash, or other negotiable instrument
sufficient to satisfy the occupational tax imposed by this chapter. Said bond,
surety, cash, or other negotiable instrument shall be payable to the City of
Stroud at such time as the applicant is licensed by the ABLE Commission.
   B.   An applicant's proposed location and use thereof shall be in
conformance with the laws of the State of Oklahoma and with the ordinances of
the City of Stroud and shall pass all necessary health, safety and fire code
inspections or no certificate of compliance shall issue. The city clerk shall
act with regard to the issuance or refusal of said certificates of compliance
within twenty (20) days after the receipt of an application therefor. (2000
Code § 3-104; amd. Ord. 341, 3-14-2019)
3-105: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND CITY LAW:
No person shall own, operate or maintain a retail package store or mixed
beverage establishment, or produce, manufacture, distribute, rectify, bottle or
sell any beer, spirits, wine or other alcoholic beverage, without first
obtaining valid licenses issued by the state and city. (2000 Code § 3-105)
3-106: CITY CLERK TO MAKE REPORT:
The city clerk shall make and transmit to the ABLE commission an annual report
showing the number and class of licenses subject to the tax and the amount of
money received therefrom. (2000 Code § 3-106)
3-107: TO POST TAX RECEIPT:
Any state licensee shall post his tax receipt in a conspicuous place on the
premises wherein he carries on his occupation. (2000 Code § 3-107)
3-108: PAYMENT OF TAX REQUIRED; PENALTY:
Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by this chapter without
paying the occupation tax imposed therefor is guilty of an offense against the
city and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code § 3-108)
3-109: ADDITIONAL PENALTY:
If the occupation tax due from any person under the provisions of this chapter
remains due and unpaid for a period of ten (10) days, there shall be imposed
upon him an additional penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (2000 Code § 3-
109)
3-110: RECOVERY OF TAX:
All sums due from any person by reason of occupation taxes imposed by this
chapter and all penalties accruing from such person by reason of failure to pay
such tax shall be recoverable at the suit of the city, brought against such
person in any court of competent jurisdiction. In any suit, in addition to the
tax and penalties, the plaintiff shall recover interest, at the rate of ten
percent (10%) per annum, upon all sums due by way of tax and penalty from the
date of accrual thereof, and all costs of collection, judicial or otherwise,
including reasonable attorney fees, all to be determined by the court.
Prosecution for an offense against the city, arising out of the failure to pay
a tax levied by this chapter, regardless of the outcome thereof or its
continued pendency, shall not constitute a defense or bar in any manner to the
collection of the tax and penalties, if any are due, as herein provided. (2000
Code § 3-110)
3-111: VIOLATION OF STATE LAW:
Any violation of any law of the state of Oklahoma in connection with any of the
matters covered by this article shall be construed to be a specific violation
of this article, whether specifically covered by the provisions of this chapter
or not. (2000 Code § 3-111)
ARTICLE B. REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
3-120: PURPOSE OF ARTICLE:
   A.   From and after the effective date hereof all matters relating to the
regulation of alcoholic beverages shall be governed by the provisions of the
Alcohol Beverage Control Act, codified in Title 37A of the Oklahoma Statutes,
except as may be otherwise provided for by the provisions of this Code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      1.   To knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish alcoholic beverages to any
person under twenty one (21) years of age;
      2.   Who is under the age of twenty-one (21) to misrepresent his age in
writing or by presenting documentation of age for the purpose of inducing any
person to sell him alcoholic beverages;
      3.   To knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish alcoholic beverages to an
intoxicated person or to any person who has been adjudged mentally deficient;
      4.   To open a retail container or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a retail package store; or for any operator of a retail package
store, or any person in charge thereof, to permit any person to open a retail
container therein or consume alcoholic beverages therein;
      5.   To drink intoxicating liquor in public or to be intoxicated in a
public place; provided, however, the city council of the city shall be
authorized to waive the prohibition against consumption for specific events,
types of events, upon proper application and under such conditions the council
deems appropriate such event or types of events. (Ord. 341, 3-14-2019)
3-121: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise:
RETAIL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE STORE: A package store.
WHOLESALE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE STORE: A store operated under the authority of a
state wholesaler's license.
The following specific terms are given the meanings defined for them in the
appropriate sections of the Oklahoma alcoholic beverage control act: advertise
the sale of alcoholic beverages, alcohol, brewery, distillery, original package
or original container, retail containers, sale, spirits, wholesale dealer in
alcoholic beverages, wine and winery. (2000 Code § 3-121)
3-122: SEPARATE PREMISES:
No person shall maintain, operate or assist in any manner the maintenance or
operation of a retail alcoholic beverage store or package store in premises
which are not separated from adjoining premises on which any other goods, wares
or merchandise are sold or services are rendered by nontransparent walls,
broken only, if at all, by a passageway to which the public is not admitted.
(2000 Code § 3-122)
3-123: PASSAGEWAY:
No person shall take any alcoholic beverage through any passageway described in
section
3-122 of this chapter, for the purpose of delivery thereof in connection with a
sale of such beverage. (2000 Code § 3-123)
3-124: SALE IN CONTAINERS:
   A.   No person shall sell or deliver alcoholic beverages at a retail
alcoholic beverage store other than:
      1.   In retail containers;
      2.   At ordinary room temperatures;
      3.   In the original package; and
      4.   For consumption off the premises.
   B.   No person owning, employed in, or in any manner assisting in the
maintenance and operation of such a store shall suffer or permit any alcoholic
beverage to be consumed, or any retail container of such beverage to be opened
on the premises of such a store. (2000 Code § 3-124)
3-125: NOT TO DRINK ON PREMISES:
No person shall drink or consume in any manner alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a retail alcoholic beverage store, nor shall any person open or
break the seal of any original package or retail container containing alcoholic
beverages on the premises of any such retail alcoholic beverage store. (2000
Code § 3-125)
3-126: SALE ONLY AT RETAIL STORE:
No person shall sell at retail, and no person shall deliver, in consequence or
in completion of such a sale, any alcoholic beverages at any place in the city
except at a retail alcoholic beverage store in strict conformity with this
article and the laws of the state. (2000 Code § 3-126)
3-127: ZONING ORDINANCE, LOCATION:
No retail alcoholic beverage store, and no wholesale alcoholic beverage store,
warehouse, brewery, distillery, winery or any other place, however described,
for the manufacture or production or bottling of alcoholic beverages of any
kind, shall be located, maintained or operated by any person at any place
within the boundaries of the city except at a location at which such an
establishment is permitted by the zoning ordinance of the city as to retail
package stores, and the clear implication of the state law as to the other
establishments. (2000 Code § 3-127)
3-128: RESTRICTION ON LOCATION OF PACKAGE STORE, MIXED BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENT
OR BEER AND WINE ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any package store, mixed beverage
establishment, bear and wine establishment or bottle club which has been
licensed by the ABLE Commission and which has as its main purpose the selling
or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or package
store to be located within three hundred feet (300') of any public or private
school or church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and
religious activities.
   B.   The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such public or private school or church to the nearest
perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage establishment, beer
and wine establishment, bottle club or package store which has been licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   Mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments, or
bottle clubs, which have been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-
premises consumption or retail package stores prior to October 1, 2018;
provided, if at the time of application for license renewal the licensed
location has not been in actual operation for a continuous period of more than
sixty (60) days, the license shall not be renewed; or
      2.   Establishments licensed prior to October 1, 2018, to sell low-point
beer which were permitted to be located within three hundred feet (300') of any
public or private school or church property primarily and regularly used for
worship services and religious activities, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 163.27 of Title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes. Such establishments shall
be permitted to have any license in effect on September 30, 2018 transferred to
a mixed beverage Iicense provided if such an establishment ceases to regularly
be open to the public or changes ownership, the provisions of this paragraph
shall cease to apply.
   D.   If any school or church shall be established within three hundred feet
(300') of any package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section after
such package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment
or bottle club has been licensed, the provisions of this section shall not be a
deterrent to the renewal of such license if there has not been a lapse of more
than sixty (60) days. When any mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section which
has a license to selI alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption, or
package store, changes ownership or the operator thereof is changed and such
change of ownership results in the same type of business being conducted on the
premises, the provisions, of this section shall not be a deterrent to the
issuance of a license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise
qualified. (2000 Code § 3-128; amd. Ord. 341, 3-14-2019)
3-129: NOT TO SELL TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE:
No person shall knowingly sell, deliver or furnish alcoholic beverages at any
place within the city to any person who is under twenty one (21) years of age.
(2000 Code § 3-129)
3-130: FALSE DOCUMENTATION:
No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall misrepresent his age in
writing or present false documentation of age or otherwise for the purpose of
inducing any person to sell him alcoholic beverages. (2000 Code § 3-130)
3-131: NOT TO SELL TO INTOXICATED PERSON:
No person, at any place within this city, shall sell, deliver or knowingly
furnish alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person or to any person who has
been adjudged insane or mentally deficient. (2000 Code § 3-131)
3-132: NOT TO DRINK IN PUBLIC PLACE:
No person within this city shall drink intoxicating liquor in any public place,
nor shall any person be intoxicated in a public place within this city. (2000
Code § 3-132)
3-133: PERSON UNDER TWENTY ONE NOT TO BE EMPLOYED:
No person under the age of twenty one (21) years of age shall be employed in
the selling, manufacture, distribution or other handling of alcoholic beverages
at any place within this city. (2000 Code § 3-133)
3-134: NOT TO EMPLOY PERSON UNDER TWENTY ONE:
No person shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years of age at any place within this city, in
the selling, manufacture, distribution or other handling of alcoholic
beverages. (2000 Code § 3-134)
3-135: TIME OF SALE:
   A.   No package store licensee shall sell or keep a package store premises
open for the purpose of selling any alcoholic beverages at any hour than
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.,
Monday through Saturday.
   B.   No alcoholic beverages may be sold, dispensed, served or consumed on
the premises of a bottle club between the hours of one minute after two o'clock
(2:01) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. No licensee shall permit any person,
who has in his possession an open container, having as its contents an
intoxicating alcoholic beverage, to remain in bottle club between the hours of
one minute after two o'clock (2:01) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. No person,
having in his possession an open container, having as its contents an
intoxicating alcoholic beverage, shall remain in mixed beverage establishment
between the hours of one minute after two o'clock (2:01) A.M. to ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. For the purpose of this section, an "open container" shall mean
any receptacle containing low point beer or intoxicating alcoholic beverage, to
include the original container of the beverage where the original seal has been
broken or opened.
   C.   No person shall open for business or keep open for business, or sell or
deliver alcoholic beverages to any person at a retail alcoholic beverage store
in this city on any Sunday, New Year's Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth Of July,
Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day, or, while the polls
are open, on the day of any general, primary, runoff primary or special
election, whether national, state, county or city, or on any other day except
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
(2000 Code § 3-135)
3-136: NOT TO FURNISH PRIZES:
No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage store, and no person
employed therein, shall offer or furnish any prize, premium, gift or similar
inducement to a consumer in connection with a sale of alcoholic beverages.
(2000 Code § 3-136)
3-137: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE NOT TO BE PERMITTED TO ENTER:
No owner or proprietor of a retail alcoholic beverage store in this city and no
person employed therein shall permit any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to enter into, to remain within or to loiter about the premises of such
retail alcoholic beverage store. (2000 Code § 3-137)
3-138: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE NOT TO ENTER:
No person under the age of twenty one (21) years of age shall enter into,
remain within or loiter about the premises of any retail alcoholic beverage
store within this city. (2000 Code § 3-138)
3-139: TIME OF DELIVERY:
   A.   No licensee shall engage in retail sale of alcoholic beverages on such
days and times as prohibited by the state law.
   B.   No wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages, and no officer, agent or
employee of such a dealer, shall sell or deliver to any retail alcoholic
beverage store in this city any amount of spirits or wines on Saturday of any
week, on Sunday of any week, on New Year's Day, on Memorial Day, on the Fourth
Of July, on Labor Day, on Veterans Day, on Thanksgiving Day, on Christmas Day,
or, while the polls are open, on the day of any general, primary, runoff
primary, or special election, whether national, state, county or city. (2000
Code § 3-139)
3-140: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall:
      1.   Purchase any alcoholic beverage at retail or wholesale from any
person other than a dealer licensed by the ABLE commission;
      2.   Except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, drink any alcoholic
beverage in public except on the premises of a licensee who is authorized to
sell or serve alcoholic beverages by the individual drink or be intoxicated in
a public place;
      3.   Open a container of intoxicating beverages or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a retail package store; or
      4.   Possess more than one quart of any alcoholic beverage unless the
state tax has been paid thereon, except as may be otherwise provided by law.
   B.   No licensee shall:
      1.   Give any alcoholic beverage as a prize, premium or consideration for
any lottery, game of chance or skill, or any type of competition; or
      2.   Advertise or offer "happy hours" or any other means or inducements
to stimulate the consumption of alcoholic beverages, including:
         a.   Deliver more than two (2) drinks to one person at one time;
         b.   Sell or offer to sell to any person or group of persons any
drinks at a price less than the price regularly charged for such drinks during
the same calendar week, except at private functions not open to the public;
         c.   Sell or offer to sell to any person an unlimited number of drinks
during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private functions
not open to the public;
         d.   Sell or offer to sell drinks to any person or group of persons on
any one day at prices less than those charged the general public on that day,
except at private functions not open to the public;
         e.   Increase the volume of alcoholic beverages contained in a drink
without increasing proportionately the price regularly charged for such drink
during the same calendar week; or
         f.   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or
contest which involves drinking or the awarding of drinks as prizes.
   C.   No licensee shall:
      1.   Allow any person on the premises where low point beer or alcoholic
beverages are sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises of the licensee
where such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to
expose to view any portion of the breast below the top of the areola or any
portion of the pubic area, buttocks or genitalia;
      2.   Permit any person to perform acts of, or acts which simulate sexual
acts;
      3.   Permit any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
depict any lewd activities; or
      4.   Permit the showing of films, still pictures, electronic reproduction
or other visual reproduction depicting any of the prohibited acts in this
section.
   D.   No licensee shall permit any drink solicitation, or request from a
patron to purchase any low point beer or intoxicating alcoholic beverage for
consumption on the premises of the licensee, as that term is defined in this
chapter. (2000 Code § 3-140)
3-141: NOT TO PERMIT INTOXICATION IN CAFE:
No person operating a cafe, restaurant, club, or any place of recreation within
this city, and no employee engaged in connection with the operation of such a
cafe, restaurant, club or place of recreation shall permit any person to be
drunk or intoxicated in the place of business. (2000 Code § 3-141)
3-142: SEPARATE OFFENSES:
Each day of violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense, but
nothing herein contained shall be construed as determining that not more than
any one such offense can be committed in any one day by the same person. (2000
Code § 3-142)
3-143: TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED IN OPEN CONTAINERS:
No person within this city shall transport in any vehicle upon any public
highway, street or alley any alcoholic beverage, unless such alcoholic beverage
is:
   A.   In an unopened original container with seal unbroken and the original
cap or cork not removed from the container; or
   B.   In the trunk or other closed compartment or other container, out of
public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
(2000 Code § 3-143)
3-144: PENALTY:
Any violation of any provision contained in this article is an offense against
the city. Upon conviction of any such offense, the violator shall be punished
by a fine as provided by section
1-108 of this code, including costs. (2000 Code § 3-144)
CHAPTER 2
[REPEALED by Ord. 341, 3-14-2019]
CHAPTER 3
MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES
SECTION:
Article A. Retail Medical Marijuana Facilities
3-301: Definitions
3-302: Retail Medical Marijuana Dispensaries
3-303: Retail Medical Marijuana Dispensary Location Restrictions
3-304: Inspections
3-305: Other Regulations
3-306: Penalties
Article B. Commercial Medical Marijuana Facilities
3-320: Commercial Medical Marijuana Growing Facilities
3-321: Commercial Medical Marijuana Growing Facilities Location Restrictions
3-322: Commercial Medical Marijuana Processing Facilities
3-323: Commercial Medical Marijuana Processing Facilities Location Restrictions
ARTICLE A. RETAIL MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES
3-301: DEFINITIONS:
All medical marijuana facilities permitted by this article are hereby defined
as any such facility which is properly licensed by the State of Oklahoma. (Ord.
342, 10-10-2019)
3-302: RETAIL MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES:
   A.   All operators of retail medical marijuana dispensaries are required to
obtain a retail medical marijuana dispensary permit from the municipal clerk.
   B.   The retail medical marijuana dispensary permit fee shall be six hundred
dollars ($600.00) per year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses
covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement
of retail medical marijuana dispensaries. (Ord. 342, 10-10-2019)
3-303: RETAIL MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   A retail medical marijuana dispensary permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location is outside of a commercial zone of the
corporate city limits of Stroud, Oklahoma.
   B.   A retail medical marijuana dispensary permit will not be granted to any
applicant where the proposed location would be situated within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any public elementary, middle, or high school.
   C.   For the distance requirement outlined in subsection B., the distance
shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest
property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in Section
3-302 A. is located to the main entrance of the public school. (Ord. 342, 10-
10-2019)
3-304: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   All permits outlined in this article will be subject to inspection by
an authorized municipal inspector prior to issuance.
   B.   The inspection prior to a permit decision will occur at a time
scheduled and approved by both the applicant and the municipal inspector.
   C.   The applicant will be required to be present during the inspection.
   D.   After a medical marijuana facility permit has been issued under this
chapter, the city’s permitting authority, or agent thereof, shall be authorized
to enter upon and inspect the operations being conducted therein to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this article. Such inspection shall take
place during regular business hours of such facility and upon reasonable notice
to the operator of such facility. (Ord. 342, 10-10-2019)
3-305: OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   The City of Stroud, Oklahoma hereby adopts those regulations governing
commercial medical-marijuana businesses as have been, and may be, codified in
Title 310, Chapter 681, of the Oklahoma Administrative Code, as that chapter
may be amended from time to time. The provisions of said chapter of the OAC,
shall take effect and be controlling within the city’s limits such that a
violation of those regulations shall be a violation of this code, though
nothing in this section shall grant to the city the power or jurisdiction to
prosecute offenses that a city is not authorized to prosecute. Copies of Title
310, Chapter 681 of the Oklahoma Administrative Code shall be available in the
city clerk’s office.
   B.   A plan for ventilation of a medical-marijuana-business facility shall
be submitted to the city prior to a permit being granted and shall describe to
the city's satisfaction the ventilation systems that will be used to prevent
any unreasonable odor of marijuana from escaping the facility.
   C.   Fire Separation And Suppression: A plan for fire separation at a
medical marijuana business facility shall be submitted to the city prior to a
permit being granted and shall describe to the city's satisfaction the manner
by which any fire generated at such facility shall be contained within and
prevented from spreading to any adjacent structures. The same plan shall
describe to the city’s satisfaction the manner by which any such fire within
the facility shall be suppressed.
   D.   Use Of Marijuana On Public Property: Smoking or using marijuana shall
be prohibited on all city property including vehicles , buildings, parks or
other city facilities. (Ord. 342, 10-10-2019
3-306: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violations of this chapter shall be, in the city' s discretion, a
fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day of violation, or
revocation of permit, or both. Each day that a violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. The dollar amount of the fine imposed hereby is
subject to amendment by resolution of the city's fee schedule. (Ord. 342, 10-
10-2019)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES
3-320: COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES:
   A.   All operators of a commercial medical marijuana growing facility are
required to obtain a commercial medical marijuana growing facility permit from
the city clerk.
   B.   The medical marijuana growing facility permit fee shall be six hundred
dollars ($600.00) per year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal expenses
covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and enforcement
of commercial medical marijuana growing facilities. (Ord. 343, 10-24-2019)
3-321: COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   A commercial medical marijuana growing facility permit will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location is outside of an
industrial, commercial or agricultural zone, or such other zone as may
hereinafter specifically permit the same.
   B.   A commercial medical marijuana growing permit will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location would be situated within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any public or private elementary, middle, high school.
   C.   For the distance requirement outlined in subsection B., the distance
shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest
property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in Section 3-402
(B) is located to the main entrance of the public or private school.
   D.   A commercial medical marijuana growing facility must be constructed in
such a manner that the growing of the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the
public from a public right of way. (Ord. 343, 10-24-2019)
3-322: COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITIES:
   A.   All operators of a medical marijuana processing facility are required
to obtain a medical marijuana processing facility permit from the city clerk.
   B.   The medical marijuana processing facility permit fee shall be six
hundred dollars ($600.00) per year. The fee shall be used to offset municipal
expenses covering costs related to licensing, inspection, administration and
enforcement of commercial medical marijuana processing facilities. (Ord. 343,
10-24-2019)
3-323: COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITIES LOCATION
RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   A commercial medical marijuana processing facility permit will not be
granted to any applicant where the proposed location is outside an industrial,
commercial or agricultural zone or such other zone as may hereinafter
specifically permit the same.
   B.   A commercial medical marijuana processing permit will not be granted to
any applicant where the proposed location would be situated within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any public elementary, middle, or high school.
   C.   For the distance requirement outlined in subsection B., the distance
shall be computed by direct measurement in a straight line from the nearest
property line of the parcel of land on which the use described in section
3-323 B. is located to the main entrance of the public or private school.
   D.   A commercial medical marijuana processing facility must be constructed
in such a manner that the growing of the marijuana plants cannot be seen by the
public from the public right of way. (Ord. 343, 10-24-2019)
TITLE 4
ANIMALS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMALS, FOWL, GENERALLY
SECTION:
4-101: Keeping Animals In City
4-102: Keeping Animals In Offensive Manner
4-103: Regulating Disposal Of Animal Carcass
4-104: Removal Of Animal Feces Required
4-105: Impounding Animals
4-106: Prohibited Acts
4-107: Obstructing Impounding Of Animal
4-108: Enticing Animals Into City
4-109: Buildings For Animals; Construction And Conditions
4-110: Unacceptable Behavior
4-111: Location Of Kennels
4-112: Structures To Be Kept Clean
4-113: Code Enforcement Officer To Inspect
4-114: Definitions
4-101: KEEPING ANIMALS IN CITY:
No person shall have, keep or maintain within the limits of the City any
poultry, swine, hog, pig, shot boar, farm animal or other animals, except dogs
and cats, with exceptions as designated in this chapter. No wild animal shall
be kept within the City limits by cage or otherwise. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-102: KEEPING ANIMALS IN OFFENSIVE MANNER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, use, or maintain any yard,
pen, place, room, or building, where animals are kept, in an unsatisfactory
condition or in such a manner as to become offensive or annoying to the public
or to any person residing in the vicinity. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-103: REGULATING DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL CARCASS:
It shall be the duty of the owner or person having the custody of any dead
animal that within twenty four (24) hours after the death of such animal, to
remove the carcass of the animal by means of burying such animal or have the
animal cremated at a veterinary clinic. In cases where the exceptions of the
zoning ordinance apply the carcasses of the animals must be removed from the
City limits within twenty four (24) hours. Any person, firm or corporation who
violates any ordinance or provision of this chapter, or who violates, or
refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made by the animal
control officer pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined as provided in section
1-108 of this Code, including costs. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-104: REMOVAL OF ANIMAL FECES REQUIRED:
The owner of any animal, when such animal is off the owner's property, shall be
responsible for the removal of any feces deposited by such animal on public
walks, streets, recreation areas, or private property and it shall be a
violation of this section for such owner to fail to remove or provide for the
removal of such feces before taking such animal from the immediate area where
such defecation occurred. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-105: IMPOUNDING ANIMALS:
The animal control officer or others as designated by the Chief of Police shall
have the right and it shall be their duty to take up and impound any animal
found running at large in violation of this article. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-106: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or any person having the care, custody, or
control of any animal to permit the same to remain or run at large within the
City limits of the City of Stroud. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-107: OBSTRUCTING IMPOUNDING OF ANIMAL:
Any person who shall willfully obstruct, hinder or prevent the lawful
impounding of any animal or who shall break open, destroy or damage the pound,
enclosure or place, or any part thereof, where any animal is impounded, or take
or drive or attempt to take or drive any impounded animal from such pound,
enclosure or place, without first paying the fees, costs, charges and expenses
provided for in this chapter, or refuses or neglects to carry out any
reasonable order made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this Code, including costs. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-108: ENTICING ANIMALS INTO CITY:
Any person who shall drive or entice any animal from beyond the City limits
into the City limits or aid, abet, or assist in so doing, or let any animal out
of any enclosure in which it may be confined or unfasten any animal, or aid,
abet, or assist in so doing, in order that such animal may be taken up and
impounded, or refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable order made
pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided
in section
1-108 of this Code, including costs. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-109: BUILDINGS FOR ANIMALS; CONSTRUCTION AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Every building wherein any animal is kept within the City shall be
constructed of such material and in such a manner that it can be kept clean and
sanitary at all times.
   B.   Every such building, if located within two hundred feet (200') of any
tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food
store, building used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which such animal is kept, shall be provided with a watertight and fly
tight receptacle for manure, of such size as to hold all accumulations of
manure. The receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner
as to prevent it from being or becoming a nuisance, and shall be kept covered
at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure or
refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate on such premises except in the
receptacle. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-110: UNACCEPTABLE BEHAVIOR:
It is unlawful for any person to permit animals to engage in sexual intercourse
in any place except an enclosed place entirely out of public view. (Ord. 307,
7-9-2015)
4-111: LOCATION OF KENNELS:
No dog kennel or other establishment wherein animals are kept shall be
maintained closer than forty feet (40') to any tenement or apartment house,
hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for
educational, religious or hospital purposes, or residence other than that
occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which the animals are
kept. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-112: STRUCTURES TO BE KEPT CLEAN:
Every structure, pen, lot or place wherein an animal is kept or permitted to be
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, devoid of rodents and
vermin and free from objectionable odors. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-113: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER TO INSPECT:
The Code Enforcement Officer, animal control officer or designee, upon
complaint of any person, shall inspect any structure or place where an animal
is kept, and may do so on his own initiative. He may issue any such reasonable
order as he may deem necessary to the owner of the animal to cause the animal
to be kept as provided in this chapter or in a manner so as not to constitute a
nuisance. He may make a complaint before the Municipal Judge against any person
for violation of any provision of this chapter or of any such reasonable order,
but this procedure shall not abridge the right of others to make such
complaint. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-114: DEFINITIONS:
FARM ANIMAL: Animals listed here are listed as what may be considered as
normally seen on a farm. This list is not conclusive and other animals may be
considered. All residents that fit this criteria but the animal is not listed
shall be required to check through City Hall to insure the animal will be an
approved animal. Farm animals are considered: goats, chickens, ginnys, cows, or
any animal of the bovine species, horses, geldings, sheep, miniature horses,
donkeys, miniature donkeys, turkeys, emus, all other types of fowl. All pens/
corrals shall be kept in such order that it will not be offensive or dangerous
to the public. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
CHAPTER 2
EXOTIC AND FARM ANIMALS
SECTION:
4-201: Prohibited Possession, Control, Keeping Or Harboring Of Certain Animals
4-202: Dangerous Animals And Reptiles
4-201: PROHIBITED POSSESSION, CONTROL, KEEPING OR HARBORING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS:
   A.   Enumeration: It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or to in any way
possess or control within the corporate limits of the City any of the following
animals:
      1.   All poisonous animals, which include all poisonous amphibians and
reptiles;
      2.   Apes including, but not limited to, chimpanzees, gibbons, gorillas,
orangutans, and siamangs;
      3.   Baboons;
      4.   Badgers;
      5.   Bears;
      6.   Bison;
      7.   Bobcats;
      8.   Cheetahs;
      9.   Alligators or crocodiles;
      10.   Constrictor snakes, six feet (6') in length or more;
      11.   Coyotes;
      12.   Deer including, but not limited to, the following members of the
deer family: white-tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      13.   Elephants;
      14.   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      15.   Hippopotami;
      16.   Hyenas;
      17.   Jaguars;
      18.   Leopards;
      19.   Lions;
      20.   Lynxes;
      21.   Monkeys;
      22.   Pumas; also known as cougars, mountain lions and panthers;
      23.   Raccoons;
      24.   Rhinoceroses;
      25.   Skunks;
      26.   Tigers;
      27.   Wolves;
      28.   Opossums;
      29.   Monitor lizards;
      30.   Pronghorns;
      31.   Goats, including mountain goats;
      32.   Civets and ringtails;
      33.   Kangaroos;
      34.   Dingos;
      35.   Zebras;
      36.   Tasmanian devils;
      37.   Llamas;
      38.   Camels;
      39.   Giraffes;
      40.   Ocelots;
      41.   Wolverines;
      42.   Armadillos;
      43.   Gila monsters;
      44.   All other animals that may be considered exotic;
      45.   Vultures and other birds of prey;
      46.   Animals which are hybrids or crossbreeds of any of the animals
listed in this section;
      47.   Horses or geldings;
      48.   Any animal that shall be considered a "farm animal";
      49.   Roosters.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to bona fide
circuses, zoos, petting zoos, and carnivals, holders of a special event with a
written permit issued by the City expressly permitting keeping, harboring,
possessing or controlling certain of the above animals within the corporate
City limits, or educational institutions and medical institutions accredited by
the State.
      2.   Up to four (4) chickens may be kept per household. Housing units for
chickens shall be secure so no chicken can run freely, all chicken housing
shall be kept clean on a daily basis and no foul odors allowed to emanate from
within.
      3.   Owners of tracts of land of five (5) contiguous acres or more shall
be allowed to keep farm animals. For large animals they shall keep them at a
ratio of one per one acre and for smaller animals the ratio shall be five (5)
per one-half (1/2) acre.
      4.   Horses or geldings shall be allowed as long as the owner locates
such animals on an equal amount of one-half (1/2) acre per horse or gelding.
   C.   Seizure And Impoundment: If a law enforcement officer or the animal
control officer has probable cause to believe that an animal listed in this
section is being kept, harbored or possessed in violation of this section and
is dangerous to people or other animals, such officer may seize and impound
such animal pending trial.
   D.   Removal By Owner: Any person who keeps, harbors, owns or possesses or
has control of one or more of the animals listed in this section on property
annexed into the City shall remove such animal from the City within sixty (60)
days of the effective date of the ordinance annexing the property into the
City.
   E.   Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any ordinance
or provision of this chapter, or who violates, or refuses or neglects to carry
out any reasonable order made by the animal control officer pursuant to this
chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this Code, including costs.
   F.   Court Order: If the court shall order the animal removed from the City
and should the defendant refuse to remove the animal from the City, the
Municipal Court Judge shall find the defendant in contempt and order the
immediate confiscation, impoundment, and disposition of the animal. In addition
to such penalties, any person who violates this subsection shall pay all
expenses, including sums for shelter, food, handling, veterinary care, and
expert testimony, which are necessitated by the person's failure to abide by
the provisions of this subsection. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-202: DANGEROUS ANIMALS AND REPTILES:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
    CONFINED: Means (occurs) when the dangerous animal or reptile is kept
securely confined indoors or in a pen, kennel or structure that has secure
sides, a secure top attached to the sides or the sides must be embedded in the
ground no less than two feet (2'), with the entrance or gate securely locked
or, latched. All such structures must comply with all zoning and building
ordinances and regulations of the City and shall be adequately lighted,
ventilated, and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL OR REPTILE: Means any animal or reptile with a known
propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals; provided, however,
that no animal shall be deemed dangerous solely because it bites, attacks or
menaces a trespasser on the property of the person who owns, keeps, harbors or
possesses the animal.
   UNCONFINED: Means (occurs) when the dangerous animal or reptile is not kept
securely confined indoors and is thereby allowed to exit the building on its
own volition or not kept outdoors and confined within a securely enclosed and
locked pen, kennel or structure; provided, however, that a domestic animal may
be exercised or walked if it is muzzled and restrained by a leash no longer
than four feet (4') in length which is in the physical control of a person of
suitable age and discretion and may be transported if it is securely confined
within a motor vehicle.
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any owner, keeper,
harborer or possessor of a dangerous animal or reptile to allow such animal or
reptile to be either confined or unconfined within the City limits.
   C.   Impounding: If a law enforcement officer or the animal control officer
has probable cause to believe that a dangerous animal or reptile is being kept,
harbored or cared for in violation of this section, such officer may petition
the Municipal Court to order the seizure and impoundment of such animal or
reptile pending trial. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
CHAPTER 3
DOGS
SECTION:
4-301: Definitions
4-302: Keeping And Harboring
4-303: License; Rabies Inoculation
4-304: Tag To Be Placed On Collar; Lost Tags
4-305: Tags; Counterfeiting, Placing On Other Dogs
4-306: Exceptions To Registration; Requirements For Visiting Dogs
4-307: Pound Established
4-308: Dogs To Be Impounded; Notice
4-309: Breaking Pound
4-310: Fees For Impounding; Disposal
4-311: Owner May Redeem
4-312: Sale Of Impounded Dogs
4-313: Barking Dogs
4-314: Dog Fighting
4-315: Keeping Vicious Dogs Prohibited
4-316: Permitting Damage To Persons Or Property By An Animal
4-317: Tethering Of Dogs
4-318: Confinement During Heat
4-319: Cruelty To Dogs Unlawful
4-320: Confinement Of Rabies Suspects
4-321: Rabies Procedures
4-322: Killing Authorized
4-323: Vicious, Dangerous And Diseased Animals Prohibited
4-324: Vicious Animal May Be Killed
4-325: Summons And Complaint
4-326: Impoundment
4-327: Hearing
4-328: Determination
4-329: Violation And Penalties
4-330: Penalty
4-301: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes herein, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning
set opposite them:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Shall include his deputy, delegate, alternate or
appointee as appointed by the Chief of Police and approved by the City Manager.
AT LARGE: Not securely confined by a fence or other means on premises under the
control of, or occupied by the owner, and not under the control of the owner, a
member of his immediate family over twelve (12) years of age, or an agent of
the owner, by leash or otherwise, whether on the owner's premises or not.
COMPETENT PERSON: Shall mean any human being who is capable of controlling the
dog in question and to whose command the dog is obedient.
CONFINED TO THE PREMISES: That condition in which a dog(s) is securely and
physically confined and restrained on and within the premises of the owner by
means of walls, fences, rope, chain, leash, or other device of such strength
and size as to physically prevent the animal from leaving the premises, and to
physically prevent the animal from causing physical injury to persons or other
animals which are off the premises on which the confined animal is located.
DANGEROUS DOG: A dog that, without provocation, has chased or approached in
either a menacing fashion or in an apparent attitude of attack, or has
attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any person or other animal while the
animal alleged to be dangerous is off the premises of the owner or while the
animal is not physically restrained or confined on the premises. "Dangerous
animal" does not include a police dog while the police dog is being used to
assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their duty.
DISEASED DOG: An animal believed to be infected with a dangerous or
communicable disease.
DOG: Shall mean all members of the canis familaris, male or female, six (6)
months of age or older.
HOUSEHOLD: Shall mean those members of a family or non-family living in the
same dwelling unit.
KENNEL: Keeping, owning or harboring five (5) or more dogs and/or cats over the
age of six (6) months of age.
MENACING FASHION: An animal that would cause any person observing the animal to
reasonably believe that the animal will cause physical injury to persons or
other animals.
OWN: Shall mean and include own, or keep, or harbor or shelter, or manage, or
possess, or to have a part interest in any dog. If a minor owns a dog subject
to the provisions of this chapter, the head of the household of which minor
owner is a member shall be deemed the owner of such dog for the purpose of this
chapter and under this chapter shall be responsible as the owner, whether or
not such household head is himself a minor. If not a member of a household such
minor owner shall himself be directly subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping an animal.
The occupant of any premises on which a domesticated or tamed animal remains,
or to which it customarily returns, for a period of ten (10) days or more,
shall be deemed to be harboring or keeping the animal.
PERSON: Shall mean any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog that, without provocation, has killed or caused physical
injury to any person or has killed or caused physical injury to another animal.
"Vicious animal" does not include a police dog while the police dog is being
used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties and where any injury inflicted by the police dog was reasonably related
to the duties being performed.
WITHOUT PROVOCATION: An animal that was not teased, tormented or abused; and
also means where the animal was not protecting its owner or owner's property
from criminal activity by a perpetrator of a crime. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-302: KEEPING AND HARBORING:
Any person who shall allow any dog to habitually remain or to lodge or to be
fed within their home, store, yard, enclosure or place shall be deemed and
considered as keeping and harboring such dog within the meaning of this
chapter. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-303: LICENSE; RABIES INOCULATION:
   A.   An annual License Tax in such sum as set by the Council by motion or
resolution for every male or spayed female dog more than six (6) months of age
is hereby levied upon the owner of any such dog kept or harbored within the
City.
   B.   The License Tax levied in this section shall not apply to a dog
temporarily brought and kept within the City, nor to a dog brought within the
City to participate in a dog show, nor to a "service" dog when such dog is
actually being used by a person to aid him in going from place to place, nor to
dogs being kept in kennels or pet shops for sale.
   C.   The owner shall pay the tax levied to the City Clerk for every calendar
year at the following times:
      1.   Before July 1 of each calendar year; or
      2.   If the dog is acquired or brought in the City after July 1, within
thirty (30) days after acquiring or bringing the dog into the City.
      3.   Tags shall be prorated to the previous quarter in which it is
purchased so that all tags will be due and payable on or before July 1 of the
following year.
      4.   Intact dogs, male or female shall be charged ten dollars ($10.00)
above what the normal tag rate is, as set by City Council from time to time.
   D.   Before the City Clerk accepts any money offered in payment of the tax
for a dog, or issues a license for it, the person offering the tax shall
present to the City Clerk the certificate of a veterinarian or other person
legally authorized to immunize dogs showing that the dog has been immunized
against rabies during the calendar year, that is, since the last December 31.
   E.   The owner of the dog, at the time of paying the tax, shall register the
dog by giving the City Clerk the name and address of the owner, the name,
breed, color and sex of the dog and such other reasonable information as the
City Clerk may request.
   F.   The City Clerk thereupon shall deliver an original receipt to the
taxpayer and also an appropriate license tag to him for the dog. Such tag shall
constitute a license for the dog. Each dog is required to wear the license tag.
   G.   All funds collected by the City Clerk pursuant to this chapter shall be
paid to the City Treasurer. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-304: TAG TO BE PLACED ON COLLAR; LOST TAGS:
   A.   The owner shall cause the tag received from the City Clerk to be
affixed to the collar of the dog upon which the tax has been paid so that the
tag can easily be seen by officers of the City. The owner shall see that the
tag is so worn by the dog at all times.
   B.   In case the tag is lost before the end of the year for which it was
issued, the owner may secure another for the dog by applying to the City Clerk,
presenting to him the original receipt, and paying to him a fee of fifty cents
($0.50). (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-305: TAGS; COUNTERFEITING, PLACING ON OTHER DOGS:
No person shall counterfeit, or attempt to counterfeit, any tag issued for a
dog as provided in this chapter, or take from any dog a tag legally placed upon
it, or place such tag upon a dog for which the tag was not specifically issued.
(Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-306: EXCEPTIONS TO REGISTRATION; REQUIREMENTS FOR VISITING DOGS:
The provisions of this chapter with respect to registration shall not apply to
any dog owned by any person visiting or temporarily remaining within the City
for less than thirty (30) days. However, such dogs shall be kept under
restraint by the owner thereof at all times. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-307: POUND ESTABLISHED:
A City pound is hereby established under the jurisdiction of the Police
Department. It shall be under the immediate control of the animal control
officer or such other person as may be officially designated. The person in
charge of the pound shall provide proper sustenance for all animals impounded
and shall treat them in a humane manner. The City may contract with another
agency for the use of a pound maintained by the agency. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-308: DOGS TO BE IMPOUNDED; NOTICE:
   A.   The pound officer, a police officer, or such other officer or employee
of the City, as the City Manager may authorize:
      1.   Shall take into custody and impound any dog, running at large in
violation of any provision of the ordinances of the City;
      2.   May enter upon the premises of the owner or other private premises
to take such dog, into custody; and
      3.   If with reasonable effort a dog, illegally at large cannot be
caught, may be killed, whether on or off private premises.
   B.   Any other person may take such dog, into custody and present it to the
authority in charge of the pound for impounding.
   C.   Upon the impounding of any dog, found running at large, diligent effort
shall be made by the pound officer or appropriate agents of the City to
ascertain the owner of the animal. If the owner can be ascertained, notice of
the impounding of the animal shall be given either by mail or by telephone to
the owner's usual place of residence. The owner may redeem the animal at the
pound officer's place of confinement as provided in this chapter.
   D.   No dog taken into custody as provided in this section shall be
destroyed or permanently disposed of prior to the expiration of three (3) days
from the date of taking the animal into custody. The City will make every
effort to adopt or find a shelter for all impounded dogs over the three (3) day
limit. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-309: BREAKING POUND:
No unauthorized person shall:
   A.   Break or attempt to break open the pound, or take or let out any animal
therefrom;
   B.   Take or attempt to take from any officer or employee of the City any
animal taken into custody as provided by this chapter; or
   C.   In any manner interfere with or hinder an officer or employee in the
discharge of his duties relating to the taking into custody and impounding of
animals as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-310: FEES FOR IMPOUNDING; DISPOSAL:
   A.   The fees for impounding and keeping an animal, to be paid upon
redemption, shall be determined by the Council by motion or resolution.
   B.   Any person redeeming an impounded animal shall pay the above fees to
the City Clerk and present his receipt therefor to the person in charge of the
pound before the latter releases the animal.
   C.   Any person redeeming a dog not licensed as required by this chapter
shall pay the required License Tax to the City Clerk and secure a tag and
present the receipt therefor and the tag to the person in charge of the pound
before the latter releases the dog. If a dog has been licensed but is not
wearing the tag, the person in charge of the pound shall require adequate
evidence of the proper licensing of the dog before releasing it.
   D.   Any person bringing a dog to the City pound for the purpose of
disposing of the dog shall be subject to the following:
      1.   The owner of the dog brought to the pound for disposition must sign
a waiver that releases ownership of the dog as well as allows for disposition
of the dog by the City in a manner chosen by the City;
      2.   Upon acceptance of a dog released by the owner for disposition, a
fee as set by the City Council from time to time shall be paid.
      3.   It is unlawful and in violation of this Code for any person to drop
off a dog at the City pound and not in compliance with the above procedures and
fees. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-311: OWNER MAY REDEEM:
An owner of an impounded dog or his agent may redeem the dog, prior to its sale
or destruction as provided for herein, by paying the required fees against the
dog and meeting any other requirements which may be prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-312: SALE OF IMPOUNDED DOGS:
   A.   Any dog delivered to a third person will require such third party to:
      1.   Properly vaccinate within three (3) days after delivery of
possession and present to the pound office within three (3) days proof of such
vaccination.
      2.   Purchase animal tags from the City.
      3.   Accept the animal in its condition at time of delivery and hold the
City harmless for any illness or behavior problems that the animal may have or
develop.
      4.   Pay a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) to the City.
   B.   The purchaser of an animal as provided herein shall acquire absolute
title to the animal purchased.
   C.   The pound officer shall pay to the City Clerk all money received from
the sale of impounded animals on the day it is received or on the next day upon
which the Office of the City Clerk is open for business. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-313: BARKING DOGS:
No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog which by loud frequent and habitual
barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or disturb any neighborhood or person
in the City. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-314: DOG FIGHTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person by design or otherwise, to set any dog to
fight, or cause any dog to attack any other dog or animal, or aid or abet or
encourage any dog to attack or chase any human being not engaged in malicious
or criminal acts; or being the owner, knowingly to permit such dog to fight
without endeavoring to prevent the same. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-315: KEEPING VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any vicious dog within the
corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-316: PERMITTING DAMAGE TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY BY AN ANIMAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person having the custody of any animal to permit
such animal to injure or damage, while in such custody, the person or property
of another. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-317: TETHERING OF DOGS:
   A.   No dog owner shall permit more than one dog to be tethered in their
yard at any given time.
   B.   No dog shall be tethered in a yard on a twenty four (24) hour per day
basis.
   C.   Tethers shall be no shorter than ten feet (10') in length.
   D.   All tethers shall be so installed so that the dog shall have the
freedom to walk around without the chance of getting tangled up or choking
itself.
   E.   All dogs tethered outside shall have plenty of water and shade
available.
   F.   All dogs tethered outside shall have plenty of water and shelter during
cold weather. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-318: CONFINEMENT DURING HEAT:
An un-spayed female dog shall be kept securely confined in an enclosed place
while in heat. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-319: CRUELTY TO DOGS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to neglect, deprive of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate, or cruelly kill a dog or cause or procure
the same within the corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-320: CONFINEMENT OF RABIES SUSPECTS:
Any dog, which is suspected of having rabies, or any dog, which has bitten a
person and caused an abrasion of the skin of the person, shall be confined by
the owner as follows:
   A.   If the dog has been properly vaccinated and licensed, the owner may
confine the dog, isolated from the public, for a period of ten (10) days, or
for any term designated by the State Department of Health;
   B.   If the dog is not licensed or vaccinated, or if the owner does not have
adequate facilities to properly confine the animal, the animal shall be seized
and confined in some veterinary hospital, and such confinement shall be for a
period of ten (10) days or for any term designated by the State Department of
Health. The fee for the confinement shall be paid in advance by the owner of
the dog; and
   C.   If the owner of the dog refuses to confine the animal under the
applicable subsections of this section, the dog, shall be ordered confined or
destroyed by the appropriate officer of the City. Any animal ordered destroyed
shall be killed by a competent person. The animal's head shall be furnished to
the State Department of Health for rabies observation. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-321: RABIES PROCEDURES:
   A.   Every animal that bites or scratches a person shall be reported within
four (4) hours to the animal control officer and shall thereupon be securely
quarantined at a veterinarian hospital for a period of ten (10) days from the
date the person was bitten, and shall not be released from such quarantine
except by permission of the animal control officer of the City and the
veterinarian in charge of the quarantined animal. Failure of the owner or
keeper to quarantine his animal within the four (4) hour period herein will
make him guilty of an offense per the guidelines set in this chapter.
   B.   The owner, upon demand by any City officer or animal control officer,
shall surrender any animal that has bitten or scratched a human, or which is
suspected as having been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine testing
or euthanasia, the expense for which shall be borne by the owner; and the
animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies.
   C.   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid, and dies while under such
observation, the animal control officer or veterinarian shall immediately send
the head of such animal to the State Health Department for pathological
examination, and shall notify the proper Public Health Officer of reports of
human contacts and diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
   D.   When one or both reports give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the
health or animal control officer of the City may recommend a Citywide
quarantine for a period of six (6) months; and upon the invoking of such
quarantine, no animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in the
streets during such period of quarantine. During such quarantine, no animal
shall be taken or shipped from the City without written permission of the
animal control officer of the City.
   E.   During such period of rabies quarantine as herein designated, every
animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be treated for such
rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian, or held under six (6) months
quarantine by the owner in the same manner as other animals are quarantined.
   F.   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended for
an additional six (6) months.
   G.   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any animal
suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting or scratching
a human, except as herein provided, nor to remove the animal from the City
limits without written permission from the Health Officer of the City, or the
animal control officer.
   H.   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand, be
surrendered to the animal control officer.
   I.   The animal control officer shall direct the disposition of any animal
found to be infected with rabies.
   J.   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine
or destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by an employee
empowered to enforce this chapter. Such refusal shall be deemed an offense per
the guidelines of this chapter.
   K.   It is the duty of every physician, veterinarian or other practitioner
to report to the animal control officer the names and addresses of persons
treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other information as
will be helpful in rabies control.
   L.   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the animal
control officer his diagnosis of any animal observed by him to be a rabid
suspect.
   M.   The animal control officer shall keep or cause to be kept:
      1.   An accurate and detailed record of the licensing, impounding and
disposition of all animals coming into his custody; and
      2.   An accurate and detailed record of all bite cases reported to the
City, with a complete report of the investigation of each case. (Ord. 307, 7-9-
2015)
4-322: KILLING AUTHORIZED:
The enforcing officer shall be authorized to kill any dog which is impractical
or impossible to catch or capture or which is endangering any person or persons
or property. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-323: VICIOUS, DANGEROUS AND DISEASED ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
The keeping of vicious, dangerous or diseased animals within the City limits
shall not be allowed. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-324: VICIOUS ANIMAL MAY BE KILLED:
A person may kill a vicious or dangerous animal in self-defense or in defense
of another when the animal, without due provocation, bites him or the other, or
attacks or attempts to bite or attack him or the other person in such a manner
that an ordinary prudent person would be led to believe that the person toward
whom the efforts of the animal are directed is about to be bitten or otherwise
physically harmed. The animal must be at large. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-325: SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT:
   A.   Any person who witnesses or has personal knowledge that an act or acts
made unlawful by this chapter have been committed may sign a complaint against
the alleged violator.
   B.   Any police officer, animal control officer or Code Enforcement Officer
who is employed by the City is authorized to issue a complaint when said
officer personally observes a violation of this chapter.
   C.   The complainant must provide a sworn complaint to the officer receiving
the complaint containing the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the complainant and other
witnesses to the incident.
      2.   Date, time and location of the incident.
      3.   Description of the animal.
      4.   Name, address and telephone number (if known) of the animal owner.
      5.   A statement that the animal attacked the complainant or some other
person or animal as witnessed by the complainant, or such facts as warrant a
finding that the animal is vicious, dangerous or diseased.
      6.   Other facts and circumstances of the incident. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-326: IMPOUNDMENT:
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer, upon receipt of a verified
complaint as outlined in this chapter, to cause the animal involved to be
impounded pending a determination as required by this chapter. Any and all
expenses associated with the impounding including shelter, food, handling and
veterinary care shall be borne by the owner of such animal during the period of
impoundment. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-327: HEARING:
The Municipal Judge, in addition to any hearings which may be required on
criminal charges, shall hold a hearing within ten (10) days of the date of
impoundment to determine if the animal is "vicious", "dangerous" or "diseased",
as defined by section
4-301 of this chapter. Said hearing may be held in conjunction with any
criminal proceedings if so ordered by the Judge, but in no event shall this
delay the hearing on determination of viciousness. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-328: DETERMINATION:
The Municipal Judge shall be empowered to make one of the following
determinations as a result of said hearing:
   A.   That the animal is in fact not vicious, dangerous or diseased, in which
event the animal control officer shall cause it to be surrendered to the owner
of the animal, upon payment by the owner of the expenses outlined in section
4-326 of this chapter, and upon compliance with sections
4-101 through
4-113 of this chapter and/or any other section of this chapter.
   B.   That the animal is in fact vicious, dangerous or diseased, and should
be destroyed.
   C.   That the animal is vicious, dangerous or diseased, but that for good
cause shown the animal should not be destroyed, in which event the Judge shall
order the following:
      1.   That the animal be immediately removed from the corporate limits of
the City and not to ever be again allowed within the corporate limits of the
City, and that the owner pay all fees required by section 4-326 of this
chapter.
   D.   The municipal judge for the City of Stroud shall have the option,
unless a finding that the animal should be destroyed pursuant to section
4-328 B. is made, to prescribe such conditions as he/she believes to be prudent
to protect the health and safety of the residents of the City of Stroud,
including but not limited to additional confinement restrictions for the animal
(s) in question and providing for review of same.
   E.   In the event the Municipal Judge for the City of Stroud, Oklahoma
determines that an animal should be banished from the corporate limits of the
City of Stroud, Oklahoma and it is subsequently determined that the animal has
been returned within the corporate city limits the City of Stroud Police or
other authorized agents shall have the authority to retrieve the animal and
have the animal euthanized without further notice or hearing on the matter.
   F.   Penalty. In the event that a person is convicted a second time of a
violation of Section
4-323 (vicious, dangerous and diseased animals prohibited) that person shall
thereafter be banned in perpetuity from owning, confining, breeding or boarding
any dog within the city limits of the City of Stroud, Oklahoma.
      1.   Should any person be found in violation of the preceding section of
the ordinance., then that person shall be given twenty-four (24) hours to
remove all dogs from the city limits of the City of Stroud, Oklahoma and should
they fail to do so, the City of Stroud police department or other authorized
agents shall impound said animals to be euthanized immediately and the costs
therefor shall be paid by that person and be considered a part of the costs and
fines imposed on said person for a violation of said ordinance.
      2.   Should any person found in violation of Section
4-323 (vicious, dangerous and diseased animals prohibited) and fail to retrieve
their animals from their confinement within seventy-two (72) hours of a finding
of guilt or innocence, then that animal shall be euthanized without further
order or notice of the Court and the costs thereof added to the fines and costs
of being found in violation of said ordinance. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015; amd. Ord.
345, 8-13-2020; Ord. 356, 9-8-2022; Ord. 366, 6-8-2023)
4-329: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating or permitting the violation of any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. Each day that a violation of this chapter continues shall
be a separate offense. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-330: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any ordinance or provision of this
chapter, or who violates, or refuses or neglects to carry out any reasonable
order made by the animal control officer pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this Code, including costs. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
CHAPTER 4
COMMERCIAL DOG KENNELS
SECTION:
4-401: Definitions
4-402: Distance From
4-403: Commercial Kennels
4-401: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any dog breeder or dealer located within the City limits of
Stroud who possesses six (6) or more intact male and/or female animals for the
use of breeding or dealing in animals for direct or indirect sale or for
exchange in return for consideration.
SHELTER/FOSTER KENNEL: Any shelter for the sole purpose of saving dogs' lives
and adopting them out. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-402: DISTANCE FROM:
   A.   No dog or rescue kennel or other like establishment wherein animals are
kept shall be maintained closer than thirty feet (30') to any tenement or
apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building
used for educational, religious or hospital purposes, or residence other than
that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which the animals
are kept.
   B.   No commercial kennel establishment wherein animals are kept shall be
maintained closer than two thousand feet (2,000') to any tenement or apartment
house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for
educational, religious or hospital purposes, or residence. All commercial
kennel establishments shall have a minimum of ten (10) acres for such business
to locate on.
   C.   No shelter/foster kennel shall be located to where it disturbs any
neighbors within the immediate vicinity. (Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
4-403: COMMERCIAL KENNELS:
   A.   Licensing Required: All commercial kennels shall be licensed through
the City of Stroud, City Clerk. Such license shall be issued with proof of a
State of Oklahoma license, inspection of the commercial kennel facility by the
City Manager or his/her designee.
   B.   License Fee: A license fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be
paid at time of issuance of the license.
   C.   Inspection: All commercial kennels shall be inspected by the Code
Enforcement Officer or his/her designee on a quarterly basis for cleanliness,
overcrowding of animals and overall general welfare of animals.
   D.   Notice Required: At such time that application for a commercial kennel
is made, the applicant shall submit proof of publication from the Stroud
American reflecting that he has published notice of his intention to apply for
a commercial kennel license, such notice giving the date he intends to file the
application, the location of the kennel, and the approximate date he intends to
commence the owning, keeping or harboring of more dogs or other animals.
At such time that the application for a commercial kennel license is made, the
applicant shall also submit receipt reflecting that he has, by certified mail,
given notice to the abutting property owners for a distance of one thousand
feet (1,000') on all sides of his premises, excluding streets and alleys, that
he intends to establish a commercial kennel and that he will on a certain date,
make application to the City for a license to establish such kennel.
   E.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the application for a commercial kennel
license, proof of publication and receipts of certified mailings, a hearing
shall be placed on the agenda of the Stroud Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall then approve or disapprove the application for the kennel use.
   F.   Keeping In Pen: All animals shall be kept in a pen at all times unless
the animal is being cared for or out being exercised.
   G.   Renewable License Fee: Once the original license is issued the owner
shall pay an annual renewable license fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
which shall be paid through the City Clerk so long as all inspections are
approved and/or violations cleared up from the previous year.
   H.   Grandfather Clause: All current commercial kennel facilities shall be
grandfathered in as far as location is concerned. They will be required to fill
out the annual license application and be subject to quarterly inspections.
(Ord. 307, 7-9-2015)
TITLE 5
BUILDING REGULATIONS AND CODES
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-101: Building Code Adopted
5-102: Additions And Changes To Building Code
5-103: Reserved
5-104: Building Inspector; Appointment, Duties
5-105: Penalty
5-106: Fire Limits
5-107: Wood Shingles Permitted Outside Fire Limits
5-108: Building Permits Required; Application And Issuance
5-109: Permit Fees
5-110: City Clerk To Be Notified Of Time Of Moving House
5-111: Numbering Houses
5-101: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The City of Stroud, Oklahoma, does hereby adopt the 2021 edition of the
International Building Code, regulating and governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for
occupation and use. (Ord. 317, 1-14-2016; amd. Ord. 358, 3-9-2023)
5-102: ADDITIONS AND CHANGES TO BUILDING CODE:
   A.   The following sections of the BOCA National Building Code are hereby
revised:
      1.   Insert: City of Stroud;
      2.   Insert: "The fee schedule shall be in accordance with the provisions
of the city code, or as may be set or amended by motion or resolution";
      3.   Insert: "Offense, punishable by fine and imprisonment as provided in
section
1-108 of the city code of ordinances";
      4.   Insert: "fine as provided in section
1-108 of the city code of ordinances";
      5.   Insert: "as set by the city council or city manager";
      6.   Insert: "the boundaries of the fire limits as provided in the city
code of ordinances";
      7.   Insert: "a number of feet to be determined by the city manager" in
both locations; and
      8.   Insert: "amount as set by the city council".
   (2000 Code §
5-102)
5-103: RESERVED:
5-104: BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT, DUTIES:
   A.   The building inspector of this City shall have the powers and duties
prescribed for the "building official" by this Code and the Building Code. His
powers and duties may be exercised by his authorized representatives under his
supervision and control.
   B.   The City Manager shall appoint the building inspector. The building
inspector may also hold other positions in the City government. (2000 Code §
5-104)
5-105: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate a provision of this chapter or the Code adopted
hereby or fails to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof, or
who shall erect, construct, alter or repair, or remove, or has erected,
constructed, altered or repaired, or removed a building or structure in
violation of a detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder, or
of a permit or certificate issued thereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
5-105)
5-106: FIRE LIMITS:
The fire limits of the city shall be as designated by the city council. (2000
Code §
5-106)
5-107: WOOD SHINGLES PERMITTED OUTSIDE FIRE LIMITS:
Notwithstanding provisions of the building code, wood shingles may be used
outside of the fire limits for roofing on dwellings and on buildings accessory
to dwellings, such as private garages and barns. (2000 Code §
5-107)
5-108: BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE:
No building or other structure shall be built, enlarged, altered or moved
without a permit from the building inspector therefor, as provided in the
building code. Applications for building permits shall be made to the building
inspector; and the applicant shall provide such plans, specifications and other
data as may be necessary for the building inspector to determine whether the
permit shall be issued. No building permit shall be issued when the building or
structure proposed to be built, enlarged, altered or moved would not conform
with the ordinances of the city and any applicable codes adopted by ordinance.
(2000 Code §
5-108)
5-109: PERMIT FEES:
Before any building permit shall be issued, the fees therefor must be paid to
the city clerk. The amount of such fees shall be as provided by the council by
motion or resolution. (2000 Code §
5-109)
5-110: CITY CLERK TO BE NOTIFIED OF TIME OF MOVING HOUSE:
At the time that a permit to move a building is issued, the person securing the
same will notify the office of the city clerk of the approximate day and hour
when the house, building or other structure is to be moved through, upon or
across the streets, alley or sidewalks of the city so that the city may have
its agent or representative present to assist in moving electric lines or other
city property that might interfere with the move. Any special expense incurred
by the city in moving the lines so that the house, building or other structure
can be moved will be paid by the applicant. The applicant shall also be
required to pay for any damage done to the city property in making the move.
(2000 Code §
5-110)
5-111: NUMBERING HOUSES:
All houses in the city shall be numbered according to the following rules and
regulations:
   A.   The starting point for numbering of all houses in the city is the
center of the intersection of First Street and First Avenue of the city.
   B.   All houses and buildings that face a street will be referred to as
either "East" or "West", depending on whether the house is east or west of
First Avenue. All houses and buildings that face an avenue will be referred to
as either "North" or "South" depending on whether the house or building is
north or south of First Street. A house or building will be numbered and
described as follows:
      1.   (Number) (north or south) (applicable avenue) avenue;
      2.   (Number) (east or west) (applicable street) street.
   C.   All houses and buildings on the north side of street or on the east
side of an avenue will be assigned an odd number, consisting of three (3)
numerals. All houses and buildings on the south side of a street or west side
of an avenue will be assigned an even number, consisting of three (3) numerals.
The first number of the number will be determined by the number of blocks north
or south of First Street or the number of blocks east or west of First Avenue
that the house or building is located. The second and third numeral will be
determined by the location of the house or building in the block. Each twenty
five feet (25') of the block will be assigned a number. The numbering of each
block shall begin at that corner of the block that is nearest the center of the
intersection of First Street and First Avenue. If a house or building is
located on more than twenty five feet (25') frontage, then the owner of the
house or building, upon securing the approval of the city clerk, may use as the
number for his house or building any number that has been assigned to any of
the lots on which his house or building is located. The owner will be guided in
making his selection of numbers by choosing one of the numbers assigned to one
of the lots on which his house or building is actually built, such numerals to
be not less than three inches (3") high and placed on the building or house so
that it can be seen from the street or avenue.
   D.   Houses or buildings in additions of the city that are not laid off in
ordinary lots and blocks will be assigned a number by the city clerk that will
comply with the rules and regulations herein prescribed, as nearly as possible,
and that will fit into an orderly and reasonable method of numbering of houses
and buildings in the additions.
   E.   Any person or entity that fails within ten (10) days to place the
appropriate number on his house or building after being notified by the city
clerk to do so, shall be assessed twenty five dollars ($25.00), to be added to
the monthly billing of the city, to such person or entity, until such number
has been placed thereon. In the alternative, a citation shall be issued upon
application of the city clerk alleging a violation of this section and, if
convicted, a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00), plus court costs, shall be
assessed against such person found guilty of violating this section. Each day,
or portion of a day, during which a violation of this section shall continue,
shall constitute a separate offense, and subsequent citations may be issued to
enforce compliance. (Ord. 194, 12-11-2003)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
5-201: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
5-202: Additions, Insertions And Changes To Plumbing Code
5-203: Reserved
5-204: Plumbers Registration; Fee
5-205: Plumbing Permits Required; Fees
5-206: Sand And Grease Traps For Garages
5-207: Depositing Of Waste Oil Or Grease In Sewer Prohibited
5-208: Plumbing Inspector; Office Created, Duties
5-209: Bond For Plumbing Contractors
5-210: Revocation Of Registration
5-201: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
The City of Stroud, Oklahoma, does hereby adopt the 2021 edition of the
International Plumbing Code, regulating and governing the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, addition to and use or maintenance of plumbing
systems. (Ord. 313, 1-14-2016; amd. Ord. 359, 3-9-2023)
5-202: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES TO PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
      1.   Insert: The city of Stroud;
      2.   Insert: August 1, 1982;
      3.   Insert: "as provided in the city's code of ordinances";
      4.   Insert: "offense and punished as provided in section
1-108 of the city's code of ordinances";
      5.   Insert: "fine as provided in section
1-108 of ordinances";
      6.   Insert: "a distance in feet as determined by the city manager"; and
      7.   Insert "a depth in feet as determined by the city manager".
(2000 Code §
5-202)
5-203: RESERVED:
5-204: PLUMBERS REGISTRATION; FEE:
   A.   No person shall practice or engage in the business, trade or occupation
of a journeyman plumber, a plumbing contractor or a plumber's apprentice unless
he is registered as such with the City and licensed as such with the State. The
registration fees to be paid to the City Clerk shall be as set by the Council
by motion or resolution as follows:
      1.   For annual registration as a journeyman plumber;
      2.   For annual registration as a plumbing contractor;
      3.   For annual registration as a plumber's apprentice.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person other than a duly registered plumber
authorized to engage in the business, trade or occupation of journeyman
plumber, plumbing contractor or plumber's apprentice in the State and the City
to perform plumbing work of any nature on rental or commercial property of any
type.
   C.   It is unlawful for a plumber's apprentice to perform any plumbing work
while not under the direct, on site supervision of a journeyman plumber.
   D.   No person, firm or corporation shall lend his or its plumber's
registration to any other person, nor shall any such registered person, firm or
corporation apply for a permit in his or its name for use of any other person.
(2000 Code §
5-204)
5-205: PLUMBING PERMITS REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   No new plumbing work shall be undertaken within the city without a
permit therefor from the city clerk. The following plumbing work shall be
considered "new plumbing work" and shall therefore require the acquisition of a
permit:
      1.   All plumbing required for the construction of new buildings,
structures or facilities;
      2.   Taps to the city sewer main; or
      3.   Connection to a city water meter.
   B.   A homeowner may perform plumbing work at his own residence without a
permit or license; however it is unlawful for such homeowner or any other
person not duly licensed by the state and the city to engage in plumbing work,
to make any connection to a city water meter or sewer main.
   C.   The fees to be paid for a plumbing permit shall be as provided by the
council by motion or resolution. (2000 Code §
5-205)
5-206: SAND AND GREASE TRAPS FOR GARAGES:
Every garage, automobile service station, repair shop and car washing rack
maintained in the city and having connection with the sanitary sewer system of
the city for the disposition of wastewater, shall have installed on the waste
line from the car wash sump a suitable sand and grease trap that will
effectively prevent entrance into the sewer system of sand and grease, and
shall be constructed substantially to conform to state health department design
for the same. The traps shall be skimmed of oil and grease at regular
intervals, and shall be kept in proper operating condition at all times. (2000
Code §
5-206)
5-207: DEPOSITING OF WASTE OIL OR GREASE IN SEWER PROHIBITED:
The depositing of waste oil or grease in the sanitary sewer system of the city
or permitting the same to be done is hereby specifically prohibited. (2000 Code
§
5-207)
5-208: PLUMBING INSPECTOR; OFFICE CREATED, DUTIES:
The office of inspector of plumbing is hereby created and shall be filled and
the duties of the office performed by some person appointed by the city
manager. Such inspector shall make inspection and testing of all plumbing and
sewer connections done within the city and shall have the right to deputize any
person equally qualified to make the actual inspections and report. He may and
shall carry out the performance of this chapter. The testing of plumbing shall
be done by filling all drains with water to the roof, and such other tests as
the inspector shall deem necessary. (2000 Code §
5-208)
5-209: BOND FOR PLUMBING CONTRACTORS:
Every person receiving registration as a plumbing contractor shall have
complied with state law and show proof of current and valid bond as required by
state law. No registration is permitted without such proof. (2000 Code §
5-209)
5-210: REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   After adequate opportunity for a hearing, the city council may revoke
the registration of a plumbing contractor, journeyman plumber or plumber's
apprentice for any of the following causes:
      1.   Serious or repeated violation of the law, ordinances or other
regulations relating to plumbing installation and repairs;
      2.   Grossly unethical conduct in connection with the plumbing trade or
business;
      3.   Poor workmanship or service; or
      4.   Installing inferior or substandard materials, fixtures or equipment.
   B.   A request that a registration be revoked may be presented to the
council by the plumbing inspector, city manager or any aggrieved person. (2000
Code §
5-210)
CHAPTER 3
GAS PIPING
SECTION:
5-301: Title
5-302: Purpose
5-303: Scope
5-304: Gas Appliances And Piping Standards Adopted
5-305: License Required
5-306: Revocation Of Licenses
5-307: Permits
5-308: Fees
5-309: Powers And Duties Of Inspector
5-310: Functions Of The Gas Company
5-301: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GAS ORDINANCE OF THE CITY and may be cited
as such. (2000 Code §
5-301)
5-302: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards, provisions and
requirements for safe installation of gas appliances and gas pipes, and to
regulate the maintenance and repair of such appliances. (2000 Code §
5-302)
5-303: SCOPE:
All gas appliances or gas hereafter sold, installed, maintained or repaired
within the corporate limits of the city shall conform to the requirements of
this chapter. (2000 Code §
5-303)
5-304: GAS APPLIANCES AND PIPING STANDARDS ADOPTED:
Pamphlet no. 54, published by the National Fire Protection Association,
entitled natural fuel gas code, is hereby adopted and incorporated in this code
by reference. The pamphlet shall be in full force and effect in the city and
shall govern the standards and installation of gas piping and gas appliances in
buildings in the city. Any violation of the provisions of the pamphlet shall be
deemed an offense against the city. (2000 Code §
5-304)
5-305: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in or work at the installation, extension, alteration or
repair of any gas appliances or piping pertaining to or in connection with gas
service on consumer's premises within the corporate limits of the city unless
such person has first procured a license therefor, either as a master plumber
or master gas fitter, in accordance with the provisions of this code. (2000
Code §
5-305)
5-306: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
No person, firm or corporation shall lend his or its gas fitter's or master
plumber's license, as the case may be, to any other person, nor shall any such
licensed person, firm or corporation apply for a permit in his or its name for
use of any other person. Any such licensed person, firm or corporation so doing
or refusing to comply with any other requirements of this chapter shall have
his or its gas fitter's or master plumber's license, as the case may be,
suspended or revoked by the city council. (2000 Code §
5-306)
5-307: PERMITS:
No gas fitter or plumber shall install a conversion burner, floor furnace,
central heating plant or gas engine, or make alterations to installed house
piping in any building or structure, without first obtaining a permit to do
such work from the inspector. Permits will not be required for setting or
connecting other gas appliances where such connections are made to existing
outlets previously installed by a licensed plumber or gas fitter. (2000 Code §
5-307)
5-308: FEES:
The fees for inspecting the gas plumbing will be as set by the city council by
motion or resolution. The fees for inspecting conversion burner, floor furnaces
or central heating plants and for any other special inspection shall also be as
set by the council. Any and all fees shall be paid by the person to whom the
permit is issued. (2000 Code §
5-308)
5-309: POWERS AND DUTIES OF INSPECTOR:
   A.   The inspector is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter, and the inspector or his authorized representative,
upon presentation of proper credentials, may enter any building or premises for
the purpose of making inspection or preventing violations of this chapter.
   B.   The inspector or his authorized representative is hereby authorized to
disconnect any gas piping or fixture or appliance which has been connected
before a certificate of approval has been issued, or which, upon inspection,
shall be found defective or in such condition as to endanger life or property.
In all cases where such a disconnection is made, a notice shall be attached to
the piping system, which notice shall state that the same has been disconnected
by the inspector or his representative, together with the reason or reasons
therefor, and it shall be unlawful for any person to remove the notice or
reconnect the gas piping or appliance until authorized by the inspector to do
so.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the inspector to confer with representatives of
local gas companies, local plumbers' or gas fitters' associations, the local
health department, and the local fire department, and otherwise obtain from
proper sources all helpful information and advice, presenting the same to the
city officials from time to time for their consideration. (2000 Code §
5-309)
5-310: FUNCTIONS OF THE GAS COMPANY:
   A.   Gas companies are hereby authorized to discontinue or refuse to supply
gas for any gas piping or gas appliance which may appear to be defective or
leaking, or otherwise considered to endanger life or property; provided,
however, that the gas company shall immediately give notice of discontinuance
to the inspector and the occupant of the building or premises where such gas
supply is discontinued or refused.
   B.   In all cases where the supplying of gas has been discontinued for
safety reasons, the supplying of gas shall not be resumed until authorized by
the inspector.
   C.   Gas companies shall not be required to secure permits to extend gas
service pipes or set meters or for any other utilization functions. (2000 Code
§
5-310)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-401: Electrical Equipment Defined
5-402: National Electrical Code Adopted
5-403: Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., Standards
5-404: Electrical Inspector; Office Created
5-405: Inspector May Make Special Rulings
5-406: Wiring In Fire Zone
5-407: Extensions Of Certain Installations
5-408: Overhead Service Conductors
5-409: Pilot Light Required For Irons In Mercantile Occupancies
5-410: Rigid Conduits
5-411: Branch Circuits
5-412: Refrigeration; Basement Installations
5-413: Permit Required For Electrical Installation; Exceptions; Fee
5-414: Electrical Inspector To Inspect All Electrical Installations
5-415: Installation Not To Be Concealed Until Approved
5-416: Work "Roughed In"
5-417: Inspection Of New Work "Roughed In"
5-418: Premises Not To Be Connected Until Installation Is Approved
5-419: Inspection Required; Fee
5-420: Annual Inspection In Fire Zone; Corrections
5-421: Inspector May Enter Buildings
5-422: Responsibility For Damages
5-423: Electricians; License Required
5-424: Bond For Electrical Contractors
5-425: License Or Bond Not Required
5-426: Revocation Of License
5-401: ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DEFINED:
The term "electrical equipment", as used in this chapter, refers to electrical
conductors, metallic raceways, fittings, devices, fixtures, appliances,
apparatus, and any electrical material of any nature, kind or description, to
be installed within or on any building or structure. (2000 Code §
5-401)
5-402: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The city does hereby enact the 2011 national electrical code (NEC) for
construction and maintenance of all electrical installations, for residential,
commercial and industrial applications. (Ord. 266, 2-9-2012)
5-403: UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES, INC., STANDARDS:
All electrical equipment installed or used shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, the statutes of the state and any orders, rules and
regulations issued by authority thereof, and with approved electrical standards
for safety to persons or to property. Unless by this chapter, by a statute of
the state or any orders, rules or regulations issued by authority thereof, a
specific type or class of electrical equipment is disapproved for installation
and use, conformity with the standards of Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.,
shall be prima facie evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety
to persons or to property. (2000 Code §
5-403)
5-404: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; OFFICE CREATED:
There shall be an electrical inspector who shall be appointed as other
administrative personnel are appointed. (2000 Code §
5-404)
5-405: INSPECTOR MAY MAKE SPECIAL RULINGS:
The electrical inspector shall have the authority to make special rulings, when
circumstances warrant, for the safeguarding of life and property and the
improvement of electrical installations, but in all cases persons engaged in
the installing of electrical equipment and holding an electrical license must
be notified by letter of these decisions. (2000 Code §
5-405)
5-406: WIRING IN FIRE ZONE:
All wiring hereafter installed in commercial buildings in the fire limits must
be placed in approved metallic or rigid nonmetallic raceways. Armored cable or
flexible conduit is to be used only when in the judgment of the electrical
inspector it is impractical to install other metallic raceways. Exception to
the requirements of this section are specified in section
5-407 of this chapter. (2000 Code §
5-406)
5-407: EXTENSIONS OF CERTAIN INSTALLATIONS:
Wiring installations, consisting of concealed knob and tube, cleat, armored
cable or flexible conduit that were installed previous to 1963, when, in the
judgment of the electrical inspector, they are in a safe condition, may have
extension of the same kind of work made to these installations. (2000 Code §
5-407)
5-408: OVERHEAD SERVICE CONDUCTORS:
Overhead service conductors shall be installed in approved metallic raceways,
unless approved service entrance cable is used; and raceway shall be continuous
to, and securely attached to, service equipment. Installations of four (4)
circuits or more shall have 3-wire service. No service conductor to be less
than no. 6 B&S gauge. (2000 Code §
5-408)
5-409: PILOT LIGHT REQUIRED FOR IRONS IN MERCANTILE OCCUPANCIES:
In all mercantile occupancies where electric irons are used, they must be
installed with approved pilot light. If the pilot light is in an enclosure such
as an alteration room, an additional light must be installed in a visible
position outside the enclosure. (2000 Code §
5-409)
5-410: RIGID CONDUITS:
For mechanical security and continuity to ground, rigid conduit shall be
provided with two (2) locknuts, one inside and one outside the equipment to
which it is attached. Metallic service equipment rigid conduit, electrical
metallic tubing, flexible conduit, metallic switch, outlet receptacle and
junction boxes shall have a conductive coating or finish. Watertight couplings
shall be employed for joining electrical metallic tubing. (2000 Code §
5-410)
5-411: BRANCH CIRCUITS:
In residential and mercantile occupancies, lighting branch circuits shall be
confined to one thousand (1,000) watts, and not more than eight (8) outlets per
circuit will be allowed in the fire limits. Branch circuit conductors shall not
be smaller than no. 12. Type C lamp cord will not be permitted in the kitchen
of restaurants or like places where grease accumulates, nor in part of a
building where live poultry is confined. (2000 Code §
5-411)
5-412: REFRIGERATION; BASEMENT INSTALLATIONS:
A circuit of not less than no. 12 wire shall be installed in basements in any
area subject to floods. Ground connections shall not be made in toilets,
adjacent to salt storage, acid vapors or in any location where the grounding
conductor and fitting is likely to become corroded. (2000 Code §
5-412)
5-413: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION; EXCEPTIONS; FEE:
   A.   No new electrical work shall be undertaken within the city without a
permit secured from the city clerk. The following electrical work shall be
considered "new electrical work" and therefor shall require the acquisition of
a permit: All electrical work required for the construction of new buildings,
structures or facilities.
   B.   A homeowner may perform electrical work at his own residence without a
permit or license; however, all such work shall be inspected by the city
electrical inspector upon the request of the homeowner for inspection services.
   C.   Fees for electrical permits shall be as set by the city council by
motion or resolution. (2000 Code §
5-413)
5-414: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR TO INSPECT ALL ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS:
The electrical inspector shall have the power to inspect all electrical
equipment installed within the city. The electrical inspector may inspect any
electrical equipment or installations heretofore installed within the city. If
any such electrical equipment that is inspected by such electrical inspector is
found to be hazardous to person or property, he shall condemn the structure
containing such defective electrical equipment and the city may refuse to
further furnish electricity to said building until such hazardous condition is
removed. (2000 Code §
5-414)
5-415: INSTALLATION NOT TO BE CONCEALED UNTIL APPROVED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or individual to
conceal or cause to be concealed, any electrical equipment used for electric
light, heat or power, until it is known by the person that the installation has
been approved by the electrical inspector; and a tag in the switch cabinet, or
attached to the service equipment, properly signed and dated, so stating, will
be sufficient notice. (2000 Code §
5-415)
5-416: WORK "ROUGHED IN":
New or old work "roughed in" shall include all electrical equipment to make the
installation complete, be free from unintentional grounds, with joints properly
made up, ready for attachment of fixtures, droplights and appliances. (2000
Code §
5-416)
5-417: INSPECTION OF NEW WORK "ROUGHED IN":
After making inspection of new work "roughed in", the electrical inspector
shall leave a tag or notice in the switch cabinet or attached to the service
equipment, plainly indicating whether the work has been approved and is ready
to conceal, or that the installation is not standard and must not be covered
until approved by the electrical inspector. (2000 Code §
5-417)
5-418: PREMISES NOT TO BE CONNECTED UNTIL INSTALLATION IS APPROVED:
It shall be unlawful for any public service corporation, individual, light,
heat or power company to connect, or cause to be connected, any service or
building, for the supply of electric current for light, heat or power, until
they have been notified by the electrical inspector that electric work has been
inspected and approved and is ready for electric service. (2000 Code §
5-418)
5-419: INSPECTION REQUIRED; FEE:
All electrical installations shall be inspected by the electrical inspector and
shall not be used until approved by the inspector. The fee for electrical
inspections shall be as set by the council by motion or resolution. (2000 Code
§
5-419)
5-420: ANNUAL INSPECTION IN FIRE ZONE; CORRECTIONS:
The electrical inspector shall have the power to make an annual inspection of
all electrical equipment in the fire zone of the city. When any electrical
installations are found to be in an unsafe or hazardous condition, the
electrical inspector shall notify the person, firm or corporation where such
electrical conditions exist to correct same and place in a safe condition. Any
person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to make correction of hazardous
or unsafe electrical installations, after having been notified by the
electrical inspector, within a designated time to be determined by the
electrical inspector, shall be fined according to the provisions of this
chapter. Each day after the expiration of the time designated to make
corrections shall constitute a separate offense. When hazardous or unsafe
electrical conditions exist and any person, firm or corporation fails to make
corrections after having been notified, the electrical inspector shall have the
authority to discontinue the electric service. (2000 Code §
5-420)
5-421: INSPECTOR MAY ENTER BUILDINGS:
The electrical inspector, while in the discharge of his official duty, shall
have the authority to enter any building or premises at any reasonable hour,
for the purpose of making any electrical inspection, reinspection or test of
the electrical equipment contained therein or its installation; and any person
interfering with the electrical inspector shall be fined as provided for in
this chapter. (2000 Code §
5-421)
5-422: RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to affect the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electrical equipment for damages to persons or to property
caused by any defect therein, nor shall the city or any officer or employee of
the city, be held as assuming such liability by reason of the inspection or
reinspection as herein provided, or by reason of the approval or disapproval of
any equipment authorized herein. (2000 Code §
5-422)
5-423: ELECTRICIANS; LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or
vocation of electrical contractor, journeyman electrician or apprentice
electrician without registration as such with the city and acquisition of a
license as such from the state. Before such city registration is issued, the
fee as set by the council by motion or resolution shall be paid to the city
clerk:
      1.   Electrical contractor's license;
      2.   Journeyman electrician; or
      3.   Electrician's apprentice.
All city registrations shall expire June 30.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, other than a duly registered electrician
authorized to engage in the business, trade or occupation of journeyman
electrician, electrical contractor or electrician's apprentice in the state and
the city, to perform electrical work of any nature on rental or commercial
property of any type.
   C.   It is unlawful for a electrician's apprentice to perform any electrical
work while not under the direct, on site supervision of a journeyman
electrician.
   D.   No person, firm or corporation shall lend his or its electrical
registration to any other person, nor shall any such registered person, firm or
corporation apply for a permit in his or its name for use of any other person.
(2000 Code §
5-423)
5-424: BOND FOR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS:
Every person receiving registration as an electrical contractor shall have
complied with state law and show proof of current and valid bond as required by
state law. No registration is permitted without such proof. (2000 Code §
5-424)
5-425: LICENSE OR BOND NOT REQUIRED:
For the installing of bell, telephone or signal systems not using over twelve
(12) volts, no license or bond will be required, but the installation of same
must comply with all other requirements of the ordinances of the city. (2000
Code §
5-425)
5-426: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   After adequate opportunity for a hearing, the council may revoke the
license of an electrical contractor, an apprentice electrician, or a journeyman
electrician for any of the following causes:
      1.   Serious or repeated violations of the laws, ordinances or other
regulations relating to electrical installations;
      2.   Grossly unethical conduct in connection with the electrical trade or
business;
      3.   Poor workmanship or service; or
      4.   Installing inferior or substandard materials, fixtures or equipment.
   B.   A request that the license be revoked may be presented to the council
by the electrical inspector or by any aggrieved person. (2000 Code §
5-426)
CHAPTER 5
LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS
SECTION:
5-501: General Provisions; Storage Of Liquefied Petroleum Gas
5-502: Limits In Which Bulk Liquefied Petroleum Gas Storage Prohibited
5-503: Limits Within Which The Bulk Storage Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases
Permitted
5-504: Procedures For Issuance Of Liquefied Petroleum Gas Bulk Storage Permit
5-505: Penalties
5-501: GENERAL PROVISIONS; STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS:
   A.   Each liquefied petroleum gas storage site in the city shall conform to
the National Fire Protection Association pamphlet no. 58 (NFPA-58), and any
additional state or federal regulations in effect at the time of application
for a liquefied petroleum gas permit.
   B.   Each liquefied petroleum gas storage site in the city shall also
conform to the noted additional requirements of this chapter for the various
zoning districts and it shall be expressly understood that these requirements
may be more stringent than those provided for by NFPA-58, or any other
applicable state or federal legislation.
   C.   It shall also be expressly understood that no permit issued by the
authority of this chapter shall be in conflict with existing setback
regulations as provided for in the city zoning ordinance. (2000 Code §
5-501)
5-502: LIMITS IN WHICH BULK LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS STORAGE PROHIBITED:
The limits within which the bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas in outside
or aboveground or underground tanks is prohibited are hereby established as the
fire limits of the city. However, places of such bulk storage in the fire
limits in existence as of March 1, 1982, may continue until the council
determines otherwise. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
hereafter to establish, erect, construct or enlarge a plant or place of
business where liquefied petroleum gases are manufactured, distributed or
handled within the fire limits of the city. (2000 Code §
5-502)
5-503: LIMITS WITHIN WHICH THE BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES
PERMITTED:
The bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases shall be permitted in the
following areas located outside the fire limits of the city:
   A.   Industrial Areas:
      1.   In industrial zoned areas, a liquefied petroleum gas permit issued
by the city shall be required. This permit shall be obtained according to
procedures prescribed in this chapter; and
      2.   Total storage capacity per site shall not exceed twenty thousand
(20,000) gallons water capacity;
   B.   Commercial Areas:
      1.   In commercial zoned areas, a liquefied petroleum gas permit issued
by the city shall be required. This permit shall be obtained according to
procedure prescribed in this chapter; and
      2.   Total storage capacity per site shall not exceed two thousand
(2,000) gallons water capacity;
   C.   Residential Areas:
      1.   In residential zoned areas, a liquefied petroleum gas bulk storage
shall be permitted only if natural gas service is not available;
      2.   Where natural gas service is not available in residential areas, a
liquefied petroleum gas bulk storage permit issued by the city shall be
required. Such permit shall be obtained according to the procedures set forth
in this chapter; and
      3.   Total storage capacity shall not exceed five hundred (500) water
gallon capacity in residential zones. In residential mobile home districts
where liquefied petroleum gas is stored and centrally distributed for mobile
home park residents, total storage capacity shall not exceed two thousand
(2,000) gallons water capacity per site; and
   D.   Agriculture Areas:
      1.   No permit shall be required for liquefied petroleum gas storage in
agricultural zones for residential or agricultural uses; provided, that:
         a.   Total liquefied petroleum gas storage does not exceed two
thousand (2,000) gallons water capacity; and
         b.   Storage containers shall not be placed within two hundred feet
(200') from any existing property lines; and
      2.   A permit shall be required for installations which do not meet the
above conditions and such permit shall be obtained according to the provisions
in this chapter. (2000 Code §
5-503)
5-504: PROCEDURES FOR ISSUANCE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS BULK STORAGE PERMIT:
   A.   All applications for liquefied petroleum gas bulk storage permits shall
be filed with the city clerk on forms to be provided by the city clerk.
   B.   All applications must be accompanied by liquefied petroleum gas
administration documentation certifying that the applicant's plans conform in
every respect to the provisions of the National Fire Prevention Association
pamphlet no. 58 (NFPA-58), copies of which are on file at the city clerk's
office. NFPA-58 requirements must be met in full before application for permit
may be made.
   C.   All applications must be accompanied by a plan drawn to scale on
suitable paper showing the actual dimensions of the lots to be built on and the
names of all adjacent property owners.
   D.   At least one public hearing shall held for each and every liquefied
petroleum gas bulk storage permit application filed with the city. Notice of
this public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city at least fifteen (15) days prior to the proposed hearing date. Such
notice shall give the time and location of the hearing and a description of the
proposed bulk storage site being considered. All adjacent property owners shall
be given notification by the city by certified mail of the proposed bulk
storage site no later than five (5) days prior to the hearing.
   E.   The city board of adjustment shall conduct the public hearing and after
providing adequate time for the presentation of arguments for or against the
proposed liquefied petroleum gas bulk storage site, shall decide by a majority
vote of the members present, a quorum consisting of three (3) members, whether
to recommend the permit be granted or denied by the city council. The board of
adjustment's recommendation shall be placed on the agenda of the first city
council meeting following the public hearing for city council consideration and
final action.
   F.   A permit fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid by
each applicant for a liquefied petroleum gas bulk storage permit. All fees
collected shall be collected by the city clerk and deposited in the general
fund. (2000 Code §
5-504)
5-505: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of
this chapter hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, shall
severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue. All such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defect within a reasonable
period of time. Each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (2000 Code §
5-505)
CHAPTER 6
HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
5-601: Housing Code Adopted
5-602: Additions And Changes
5-603: Effective Date
5-601: HOUSING CODE ADOPTED:
The international one and two family dwelling code, the latest edition thereof,
as published by the Building Officials And Code Administrators International,
Inc., is hereby adopted as the housing code of the city for the control of
buildings and structures as therein provided. Each and all of the regulations
of the dwelling code are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated and made a
part of this code by reference, as if fully set out in this code, with the
additions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this chapter. At least
one copy of the code is kept on file in the office of the city clerk. (2000
Code §
5-601)
5-602: ADDITIONS AND CHANGES:
   A.   The following sections of the international one and two family dwelling
code are hereby revised as follows:
      1.   The city of Stroud shall be inserted for the name of the
jurisdiction; and
      2.   The penalty for violation of the code shall be as provided in
section
1-108 in the city code of ordinances.
(2000 Code §
5-602)
5-603: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The international one and two family dwelling code became effective August 1,
1982, in the city. (2000 Code §
5-603)
CHAPTER 7
OIL AND GAS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-701: Intent And Purpose
5-702: Definitions
5-703: Permit Required For Oil And Gas Drilling Or Production
5-704: Application And Filing Fee
5-705: Issuance Or Refusal Of Permit
5-706: Termination Of Permit
5-707: Renewal Of Permit
5-708: Permittee Insurance And Bonds
5-709: Enhanced Production Wells And Disposal Wells
5-710: Derrick And Rig
5-711: Slush Pits And Rat Hole
5-712: Disposal Of Deleterious Substances
5-713: Casing
5-714: Valves And Blowout Preventers
5-715: Drill Stem Tests
5-716: Bradenhead
5-717: Christmas Tree And Wellhead Connections
5-718: Gaseous Discharges To The Atmosphere
5-719: Premises To Be Kept Clean And Sanitary
5-720: Motive Power And Mufflers
5-721: Storage Tanks
5-722: Fencing, Landscaping, Etc.
5-723: Movement Of Heavy Equipment
5-724: Well Location Setbacks
5-725: Noise, Dust, Odors And Other Nuisances
5-726: Facilities
5-727: Fire Prevention
5-728: Fracture And Acidizing
5-729: Plugging And Restoration
5-730: Rupture Of Service Casing
5-731: Depositing Oil Products
5-732: Safety Precautions
5-733: Corporation Commission And Environmental Protection
5-734: Accumulation Of Vapor
5-735: Ingress And Egress
5-736: Appeals
5-737: Recommendations And Council Review
5-738: Notice Of Public Hearing
5-739: Applicability To Existing Conditions
5-740: Service Companies
5-741: Zoning
5-742: Drilling Near School Or Hospital Property
5-743: Streets, Alleys And Public Easements
5-744: Penalty
5-745: Enforcement
5-701: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Imprudent operation of an oil and gas facility, whether that facility
is involved in drilling or production, can and has constituted a menace to the
public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city, and includes:
      1.   The potential for serious contamination of water wells within the
city;
      2.   A threat to the health and physical safety of children and other
residents of the city who may live, work or play in the area of operation;
      3.   A disturbance of the city's peace and serenity through noxious
odors, dust and loud noises;
      4.   A general threat to the well being in the community through
potential fire dangers, fluid spills and other damages to the surface; and
      5.   A threat of physical destruction of municipal facilities causes by
heavy equipment.
It is therefore the intent and purpose of this chapter to recognize the
legitimate interests of oil and gas operations, but to reasonably and uniformly
regulate those operations in harmony with the activities and land uses within
the city for the general benefit of the public good.
   B.   There are diverse areas of lands and uses of land in the city. The
purpose of this chapter is not to prevent or unduly restrict mineral owners, or
their lessees from developing and producing such minerals. The city may waive
any or all of the requirements set forth in this chapter, when it is found that
such waiver will not be prejudicial to the citizenry or property of the city.
(2000 Code §
5-701)
5-702: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
scope and meaning hereafter defined and set out in connection with each, and
this scope and meaning shall apply wherever and whenever used:
ABANDONED WELL: Any natural production well in which production casing has been
run but which has not been operated for six (6) months; and shall also mean any
artificial production well in which production casing has been run but which
has not been operated for a period of nine (9) months; and shall also mean any
well in which no production casing has been run, and for which drilling
operations have ceased for thirty (30) consecutive days or which has otherwise
not been developed or operated with due diligence.
ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION: The raising of petroleum or natural gas to the surface
of the earth by means other than the natural flow of such substances.
CORPORATION COMMISSION: The Oklahoma corporation commission.
DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE: Any chemical, salt water, oil field brine, waste oil,
waste emulsified oil, basic sediment, mud, or injurious substances produced or
used in the drilling, development, production, transportation, refining or
processing of oil, gas or condensate.
DEVELOPED AREA: Any area within five hundred feet (500') of an occupied
residential, commercial or office structure which is itself within three
hundred feet (300') of an occupied residential, commercial or office structure;
or any area within five hundred feet (500') of a public or private park, forest
preserve, wildlife preserve not operated for profit, municipal or community
recreating center, or community play field.
DISPOSAL WELL: Any well drilled or actually used for injection of salt water or
any other substance into the earth at a point different than the point of
extraction or production thereof from the earth.
ENHANCED PRODUCTION: Any operation by which fluid or energy is introduced into
a source of supply for the purpose of simulating recovery therefrom.
INSPECTOR: Any person designated by the city manager, or the head of any
department of the city, to make inspections provided for in this chapter,
whether or not other duties are additionally assigned.
LEASE: Any tract of land subject to an oil, gas or mineral lease, or other oil
and gas development contract, or any unit composed of several tracts and leases
but operated as a single lease; and any tract of land in which the minerals are
owned by an operator or someone holding under him which, due to the royalty
ownership, is developed as a separate tract.
MUD PROGRAM: The planning usage of drilling fluid lubricants (also known in the
industry as "mud"), specifying with particularity the type, names, physical and
chemical composition, and the characteristics of all ingredients thereof,
together with such laboratory and other technical data as may be necessary or
required by the city to evaluate the same as a potential source of pollution.
NATURAL PRODUCTION: The raising of petroleum or natural gas to the surface of
the earth by natural flow.
PERMITTEE: The person to whom is issued a permit or permits under the terms of
this chapter.
PERSON: Both the singular and plural. Also means and includes any individual,
firm, partnership, association, corporation, club, society, cooperative, trust,
municipal corporation or political subdivision, regardless of form. When and
after activity or omission is forbidden to a person, that activity or omission
is forbidden whether the person is acting for himself or for another, and
whether the activity or omission is performed directly or through an agent,
servant, employee, subcontractor or independent contractor.
POLLUTION: The contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical or
biological properties of any natural waters of the city or lands within the
city, or such discharge of any liquid, gaseous or solid substance into any
water of the city or upon any lands within the city as will or is likely to
create a nuisance or render such waters or such lands harmful or detrimental to
public health, safety or welfare; or which will render such waters or such
lands harmful or detrimental to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural,
recreational or other beneficial uses; or which will render such waters or such
lands harmful or detrimental to livestock, animals, or aquatic life.
WATER OR THE WORDS WATER OF THE CITY: All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems and all other
bodies or accumulations of water, whether on the surface or underground,
whether natural or artificial, whether public or privately owned or maintained,
and which are either contained within, flow through or border upon the city, or
any portion thereof.
WELL: Any hole or holes, bore or bores, to any sand, formation, strata or depth
for the purpose of producing and recovering any petroleum, oil, gaseous liquid
hydrocarbon or for the injection or disposal of any of them or any other
liquefied matter or gaseous matter.
   B.   All technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used herein and
not specifically defined in this chapter, shall have that meaning customarily
attributable thereto by prudent operators of the oil and gas industry. (2000
Code §
5-702)
5-703: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OIL AND GAS DRILLING OR PRODUCTION:
   A.   No person shall engage in or authorize any work or erect any structure,
tanks, machinery, pipelines or other appurtenances incident to the drilling of
a disposal well or drilling for or production of petroleum, natural gas or
their products, nor:
      1.   Operate, maintain or permit any equipment, structures or
appurtenances incident to such production to exist or be maintained; nor
      2.   Allow any flow therefrom, without a permit having first been issued
by the city in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   A permit is transferable to the person who acquires the legal right to
produce oil or gas from the well in question, but notices served upon the
record permittee shall be binding upon the transferee until such time as the
transferee designates a new service agent. Transferee shall notify the city in
writing of the name and address of transferee and his service agent within ten
(10) days of the effective date of the transfer. (2000 Code §
5-703)
5-704: APPLICATION AND FILING FEE:
Every application for a permit to drill and operate a well, including a reentry
to an abandoned well, shall be verified under oath and writing, and signed by
the applicant or some duly authorized person who may sign on the applicant's
behalf. It shall be filed with the city clerk and be accompanied with a filing
fee in such sum as set by the council by motion or resolution, in cash, money
order or certified check. A separate application shall be required for each
well. The applications shall include the following:
   A.   Name and address of applicant;
   B.   Name and address of operator;
   C.   Date of application;
   D.   Legal description of the land;
   E.   Block map of the ten (10) acres surrounding the drill site, showing
thereon the location of the proposed well in the center of the ten (10) acres
and the location of all abandoned wells, all structures designed for the
occupancy of human beings or animals, all easements, property boundaries, lease
boundaries, private roads to the well, all fresh water wells within the ten
(10) acres, and all oil and gas facilities proposed to be used with the well.
The map shall show the distances between the drill site and these items, and
show a north arrow;
   F.   Name and address of the surface owners as shown by the tax rolls
maintained in the county where the land is located, and of the mineral owners
if different from the applicant;
   G.   Copy of the approved drilling permit from the corporation commission
and a copy of the staking plat;
   H.   Drilling prognosis, to specify in detail the amount, weight and size of
conductor pipe and surface pipe, and procedures to be used for cementing such.
Plugging procedures to be used in the event the production is not established
shall also be specified;
   I.   Statement of provisions for water for the drilling rig, and the mud
program to be utilized;
   J.   Name and address of the service agent within the state upon whom
service of process on behalf of the applicant may be made. In the case of any
nonresident person, there shall be attached to the application a designation of
such a service agent, resident in the county where the land is located, or in
Oklahoma County, Oklahoma, and a consent that service of summons may be made
upon such a person in any action to enforce any of the obligations hereunder;
   K.   Plans and engineering specifications of structures, drilling derricks,
drilling masts, tanks and high pressure systems to be used; standard plans and
specifications already on file and approved by the city at the time of
application may be incorporated by reference;
   L.   The proposed depth of the well;
   M.   Certified or photostatic copies of all leases or contracts with the
owners; and
   N.   Location of mud pits, pollution prevention equipment and fire
equipment, together with a list of this equipment. (2000 Code §
5-704)
5-705: ISSUANCE OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   The city staff, within thirty (30) days after the filing of application
for a permit to drill and operate a well, shall determine whether or not the
application complies in all respects with the provisions of this chapter. If it
does, the city staff shall then make recommendations on any item which may be
varied or waived, and shall immediately schedule the application for permit for
public hearing, including a recommendation to the city council that the permit
be issued or not issued. If the council grants the permit, the city shall issue
such permit in writing within one week of council action or the posting of the
required bond (whichever occurs later). Each permit issued under this chapter
shall:
      1.   By reference, have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied verbatim
therein;
      2.   By reference, have incorporated therein all the provisions of
applicable federal and state law, and all rules, regulations, and standards
adopted in accordance therewith relating to the protection of human beings,
animals and natural resources;
      3.   Specify the well location with clarity as to available correct legal
description according to the U.S. government survey;
      4.   Specify that the term of such permit shall be for a period of one
year from the date of the permit, and for as long thereafter as the permittee
is engaged in drilling operations with no ceasing of such drilling operations
for more than thirty (30) days, or oil and gas is produced in commercial
quantities from the well drilled pursuant to such permit; provided, that if at
any time after discovery of oil or gas and the production thereof in commercial
quantities, such production shall cease, the term shall not terminate if the
permittee commences additional reworking operations within ninety (90) days
thereafter. If the reworking operations result in the production of oil and
gas, the permit shall continue so long thereafter as oil and gas is produced in
commercial quantities from the well. Continuation beyond one year from the date
of issuance is contingent on renewal of the permit as set forth hereafter;
      5.   Specify such conditions imposed by the city as are authorized by
this chapter;
      6.   Specify that no actual operations shall be commenced until the
permittee shall file and have approved the required bonds and certificate of
insurance in the appropriate amounts as provided herein, and that operators
shall immediately cease should coverage of the bonds or the insurance be
suspended or reduced below the required levels; and
      7.   Specify the total depth to which the well may be drilled, not
exceeding the proposed depth.
   B.   The permit, in duplicate originals, shall be signed by the city manager
or his designee, and shall be signed by the permittee prior to delivery. One
original shall be retained by the city and one original shall be retained by
the permittee. When so signed, the permit shall constitute the permittee's
drilling and operation license and a contractual obligation of the permittee to
comply with the terms of such permit, the bonds required by the ordinances and
this chapter. The copy of the permit retained by the permittee shall be kept
immediately available for inspection by any city or state law enforcement
official or inspector who demands to see the same. Grant of the permit by the
city is not a guarantee of the permittee, nor is it an expression of the
feasibility of the operations.
   C.   If the permit for the well is refused by the council, or by the city
staff, and no hearing is required, or if the applicant notifies the city in
writing that he does not elect to accept the permit as tendered and wishes to
withdraw his application, then the filing fee which accompanied the application
shall be returned to the applicant, except there shall be retained therefrom by
the city the sum as set by the city council by motion or resolution as a
processing fee. (2000 Code §
5-705)
5-706: TERMINATION OF PERMIT:
When a permit has been issued, the same shall terminate and become inoperative
without any action on the part of the city, unless within ninety (90) days of
the date of issuance, actual drilling of the well commences. If drilling
operations or production cease for a period sufficient to make the well an
"abandoned well", as defined in section
5-702 of this chapter, this abandonment shall operate to terminate and cancel
the permit without any action on the part of the city, and it shall be unlawful
thereafter to continue the operation of or drilling of such a well without the
issuance of a new permit. (2000 Code §
5-706)
5-707: RENEWAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   On or before the anniversary of the issuance of the permit each year,
permittee shall file an application for renewal of the base permit previously
granted. Such application shall include the following:
      1.   Cash, money order or certified check as a renewal fee in the amount
set by the council by motion or resolution;
      2.   A statement of amendments as to any factual issues which have
changed from the facts set forth in the initial application;
      3.   As to wells which were drilled during the previous year, a statement
as to whether or not the well has been converted to production, and if so,
identifying the strata of production;
      4.   Evidence that all bonds and insurance remain in force, or have been
replaced with equivalent new bonds and insurance; and
      5.   A statement of the safety history of the well during the past year
which must include a summary of each type of claim submitted, the name of the
claimant, the amount of the claim, and the amount of settlement (if any);
provided, that "claims", as used in this subsection, shall not include claims
involving workers' compensation, but shall include spills on the land,
contamination of subsurface strata, and spills of oil, gas or deleterious
substances which occurred within the city limits en route to or from the well
in question.
   B.   The application for renewal may be submitted through the mail or in
person. Failure to make the required application for renewal shall suspend all
rights to drill, produce, inject or dispose, but shall not be construed to
terminate the base permit until after the time required to make the well an
abandoned well. Any operation conducted while the permit rights are suspended,
shall not prevent the well from becoming an abandoned well, and all such
operations are offenses and forbidden until the renewal is issued.
   C.   The city shall notify permittee by letter within thirty (30) days
thereafter that the base permit has been extended, or that the base permit has
not been extended, for a period of one year. This notice of extension shall be
maintained by the permittee with the permit and used as a supplement thereto
for all purposes. In the event the permit is not renewed, the permittee shall
immediately cease all drilling and production operations and diligently proceed
to plug the well. (2000 Code §
5-707)
5-708: PERMITTEE INSURANCE AND BONDS:
   A.   In the event a permit is authorized by the city under the terms of this
chapter for the drilling and operation of a well, no actual drilling operations
shall be commenced until the permittee files with the city clerk a bond in the
principal amount of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), or such
higher principal sum as has been determined by the city council, or a one
hundred thousand dollar ($100,000.00) blanket bond on all wells by a single
operator on a single lease. The bond shall be executed by a reliable insurance
company authorized to do business in the state as surety with the permittee as
principal, the bond running in favor of the city for the benefit of the city
and all persons concerned, conditioned that the permittee will comply with the
terms and conditions of this chapter in the operation of the well for either
natural or artificial production, injection or disposal. The bond shall become
effective on or before the same is filed with the city and remain in force and
effect for a period of at least one year after the expiration of the term of
the permit issued. In addition, the bond will be conditioned that the
permittee:
      1.   Will promptly pay all fines, penalties and other assessments imposed
upon permittee by reason of the breach of any of the terms, provisions and
conditions of this chapter;
      2.   Will promptly restore to their former condition the streets,
sidewalks and other public property of the city, which may be disturbed or
damaged by the operations;
      3.   Will promptly clear the premises of all litter, trash, waste and
other substances used, allowed or occurring in the drilling or production
operations;
      4.   Will, after drilling operations are complete, grade, level and
restore the property to the same surface condition as nearly as possible, as
existed when operations for the drilling of the well was first commenced;
      5.   Will comply with every applicable federal and state law, municipal
ordinance, rule, regulation, standard or directive relating to the maintenance
of the safe and beneficial physical, chemical and biological properties of any
waters of the city or lands within the city;
      6.   Will bear all the costs necessary and incidental to the correction
of any pollution to the waters of city or lands within the city caused by
permittee or his agents, servants, employees, subcontractors, or independent
contractors; and
      7.   Permittee shall indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and
all liability attributable to granting the permit.
   B.   If at any time the city council shall deem any permittee's bond to be
insufficient for any reason held in good faith, it may require the permittee to
file new, additional bond. If after completion of a well, a permittee has
complied with all the provisions of this chapter, and permittee has removed the
derrick and cleared the premises of related items, he may apply to the city
council to have the above bond reduced to a sum of not less than twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for the remainder of the time the well produces
without reworking. During reworking operations, the amount of the bond shall
increase to the original amount.
   C.   In addition to the bond required above, permittee shall carry a policy
or policies of standard comprehensive public liability insurance, including
contractual liability covering bodily injuries and property damage, naming the
permittee and the city as coinsured. Such policies shall be issued by an
insurance company authorized to do business within the state, and the policy or
policies shall in the aggregate provide for the following minimum coverage:
      1.   Bodily injuries, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per
person; three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per accident; and
      2.   Property damage, two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
   D.   Permittee shall file with the city clerk certificates of the insurance,
and shall obtain the written approval thereof by the city manager or his
designee, who shall act thereon within ten (10) days from the date of the
filing of the certificates. The insurance policy or policies shall not be
canceled without actual written notice received by the city clerk at least ten
(10) days prior to the effective date of the cancellation. In the event the
insurance policy or policies are canceled, the permit granted shall terminate
immediately, and permittee's rights to operate under the permit shall cease
immediately until permittee files additional insurance as provided herein.
(2000 Code §
5-708)
5-709: ENHANCED PRODUCTION WELLS AND DISPOSAL WELLS:
   A.   No person shall drill any well for enhanced production or for disposal,
nor shall any person convert any well to a use for enhanced production or
convert any well to a disposal well, without first applying for a permit in the
same form as that required by the preceding sections in applying for a permit
to drill an original well. In addition to the information contained therein,
this application shall also provide the following:
      1.   Evidence that all abandoned wells in the section of the project as
shown by the U.S. government survey and in adjacent sections are adequately
plugged, together with a map of all wells in those sections and showing the
status of those wells; and
      2.   The following:
         a.   One copy of all electrical, mechanical, sample and driller's
logs, if available; one copy of all cement bond logs and production logs;
         b.   One copy of all information supplied to the corporation
commission, together with the corporation commission's approval of the project;
         c.   Copies of all documents issued by the corporation commission,
indicating successful pressure testing of each injection well at a pressure
greater than the maximum proposed for the project, and if no such corporation
commission documents have been issued, then sufficient independent evidence of
the successful pressure testing of each injection well; and
         d.   One copy of all documents filed with the environmental protection
agency or issued by that agency concerning the well.
   B.   Upon completion of the application required hereunder, together with
the submission of a filing fee in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) in cash or its equivalent, the city staff shall have thirty (30)
business days to review the same and make a recommendation for approval or
disapproval to the city council. The council may authorize a permit in the same
manner and under the same conditions as are specified above for other permits.
   C.   Injection lines shall be buried in a trench of a depth not less than
eighteen inches (18") and shall be pressure tested (static) annually at a
minimum of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the pressure normally
encountered at the injection pump discharge for a period of hours to be fixed
by the city staff. The city shall be notified five (5) days in advance of such
test and may observe the same. Test results shall be filed with the city upon
completion.
   D.   Fresh water wells located within a radius of one-fourth (1/4) mile of
any enhanced recovery or disposal well shall be tested semiannually for the
presence of deleterious substances. Such testing is the responsibility of the
permittee and at permittee's sole expense. Tests shall be conducted by a person
approved by the city. The city shall be notified five (5) days in advance of
such testing and may observe the same. Test results shall be filed with the
city upon completion. (2000 Code §
5-709)
5-710: DERRICK AND RIG:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate in connection with the
drilling or reworking of any well within the city any wooden derrick or any
steam powered rig; or to permit any drilling rig or derrick to remain on the
premises or drilling site for a period longer than sixty (60) days after
completion or abandonment of the well. All rigs must be of a type using mud as
a drilling fluid. Permittee shall keep a watchman on duty on the premises at
all times from the start of the erection of the derrick, or a mast, or gin
pole, until the well is abandoned and plugged, or completed as a producing well
and enclosed within a fence as required hereafter. It shall not be necessary to
keep an extra watchman on duty on the premises when other workmen of permittee
are on the premises. The city may waive the requirement of a watchman or may
require only rotary mud drills be used. (2000 Code §
5-710)
5-711: SLUSH PITS AND RAT HOLE:
Only lined earthen, steel or fiberglass slush pits shall be permitted in
connection with the drilling operation. The lining of an earthen pit must be
sufficient to actually prevent absorption of the contents of the pit into the
earth. Fiberglass pits may be used only for retaining nonflammable contents.
All "deleterious substances", as defined in section
5-702 of this chapter, and all liquid with oil content, gasoline or other
derivatives or byproducts, sand sludge, or other waste produced in connection
with the drilling, cleaning, washing, reworking or operating any oil, gas or
disposal well shall be captured and retained until transported to a proper
disposal facility approved by the corporation commission. In the event a steel
or fiberglass pit is used, the pit and its contents shall be removed from the
premises and the drilling site within thirty (30) days after completion of the
well. In the event an earthen slush pit is used, the pit shall be drained, its
contents and lining removed, and it shall be filled and leveled within one
hundred eighty (180) days after completion of the well; provided, that the city
may waive the requirement that earthen pits be lined. The rat hole shall be
filled with cement by the pump and displacement method prior to removal of the
drilling rig from the location. (2000 Code §
5-711)
5-712: DISPOSAL OF DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Every permittee under this chapter shall make sufficient provisions for
the safe disposal of all deleterious substances which he may bring to the
surface of the earth. Such disposal shall not result in pollution of the waters
or of the lands within the city, shall not result in any other environmental
hazard, and shall incorporate the best available techniques and equipment.
   B.   In the event of any leakage or spillage of any pollutant or any
deleterious substance, whatever the cause thereof, the permittee shall notify
the city promptly. If, in the judgment of the city manager, such leakage or
spillage represents a potential environmental hazard, the city manager may
issue whatever corrective orders he deems appropriate and in addition may
require appropriate testing of the surface and subsurface for pollution, the
costs of such test or tests to be borne by permittee.
   C.   Unless modified herein, the general rules and regulations of the oil
and gas conservation division of the corporation commission are hereby adopted
by reference and have the same force and effect as if set forth at length
herein. Not less than three (3) copies are now filed in the office of the city
clerk. (2000 Code §
5-712)
5-713: CASING:
   A.   Surface casing shall be set a minimum of fifty feet (50') below the
deepest freshwater zone found within a one mile radius of the well site.
However, a minimum of five hundred feet (500') of surface casing shall be set.
Surface pipe shall have a centralizer on the shoe joint, a centralizer within
fifty feet (50') of the shoe joint, and centralizers no more than two hundred
feet (200') apart above the second centralizer. Such surface casing must be set
as soon as the proper depth for the casing has been drilled. No drilling to
production strata shall be done until after the casing operation is complete.
   B.   Surface pipe shall be cemented by attempting to circulate good cement
to the surface by normal displacement practices with sufficient cement to
completely fill all the annular space behind such casing, to the surface of the
ground. If cement cannot be circulated to the surface, the existing cement
shall not be over displaced and a plug shall be left in the bottom of the
casing string to be drilled out once the surface is set. The remaining open
hole behind the surface pipe shall be cemented by running a tubing string
between the conductor string and the service pipe until the top of the cement
is tagged. The remaining uncemented annular space shall then be cemented until
good cement is circulated to the surface. Cementing of this surface casing
shall be performed as soon as the depth described in subsection A of this
section is reached and prior to drilling the well to deeper formations.
   C.   Where an existing well is to be used as an injection or disposal site,
the existing casing and cement shall be of such integrity and depth as to
adequately and safely isolate freshwater producing zones from the seepage or
bleeding of injection fluids or disposants. Where additional protective
operations are undertaken to comply with this subsection, the city shall be
notified thereof sufficiently in advance in order to allow a city
representative to be present and observe such operations.
   D.   All casing, including surface protection and production strings, shall
be either seamless steel or equivalent quality oil well casing. Each production
string or casing must comply with the API standards as to internal pressure
yield strength. (2000 Code §
5-713)
5-714: VALVES AND BLOWOUT PREVENTERS:
No well shall be drilled within the city limits without properly equipping the
surface casing when set with at least one master valve, and without properly
equipping the production casing when set with at least one master valve and one
fluid operated ram type blowout preventer; and without properly equipping the
production casing during completion operations and work over operations with at
least one master valve and one fluid operated ram type blowout preventer. On
each well drilled, a valve cock or kelly cock shall be installed on the kelly
used. Each blowout preventer shall test six thousand (6,000) pounds, and all
control equipment shall be in good working condition and order at all times.
The city may reduce the level of the test for the blowout preventer to four
thousand (4,000) pounds. (2000 Code §
5-714)
5-715: DRILL STEM TESTS:
All drill stem tests in connection with the drilling or reworking operations of
any well within the city limits shall be conducted during daylight hours.
During the test, the well effluent which is produced must not be allowed to
spill upon, flow across, or otherwise be allowed to cause pollution to the
waters of the city or the land within the city. Adequate advance notice to the
city shall be required to enable a city representative to be present and
observe. (2000 Code §
5-715)
5-716: BRADENHEAD:
Each well drilled within the city limits shall be equipped with a bradenhead
with the working pressure of not less than the pressure which a prudent
operator would expect under the conditions known. The bradenhead shall not be
welded. Bradenheads installed on the surface casing shall be set above ground
level and shall be equipped with fittings having a working pressure rating of
not less than the pressures which a prudent operator would expect under the
conditions known. The bradenhead pressure shall be checked at least once each
calendar month and, if pressure is found to exist, proper remedial measures
shall be immediately taken to eliminate the source and the existence of the
pressure. (2000 Code §
5-716)
5-717: CHRISTMAS TREE AND WELLHEAD CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The Christmas tree and wellhead connections on each well drilled within
the city limits shall have at least a minimum working pressure and a minimum
test pressure which meets or exceeds the highest of the following three (3)
standards:
      1.   Corporation commission regulations for wells of the applicable
depth;
      2.   Environmental protection agency regulations for wells of the
applicable depth; or
      3.   The standards which would be used by a prudent operator for a well
of the applicable depth.
   B.   In the event the surface shut in pressure of any well within the city
limits exceeds two thousand (2,000) pounds per square inch, the flow wing of
the Christmas tree shall be equipped with an automatic closing and safety valve
in addition to the regular valves. (2000 Code §
5-717)
5-718: GASEOUS DISCHARGES TO THE ATMOSPHERE:
No gaseous discharges to the atmosphere will be permitted from any producing
injection or disposal well. Permittee shall use well maintained and adequate
equipment on site to gather any such gaseous discharge and prevent its being
vented to the atmosphere during the collection process, storage process or
transportation within the city limits. Flaring will be permitted for testing
purposes and as needed to complete the well; however, commencing ninety (90)
days after drilling operations on the well cease, no flaring of gas will be
permitted. All such gas must be captured and reinjected or collected in a low
pressure system. (2000 Code §
5-718)
5-719: PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN AND SANITARY:
The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, free from rubbish
of every character, to the satisfaction of the health officer of any public
body, at all times drilling operations or reworking operations are being
conducted, and as long thereafter as oil or gas is being produced therefrom.
The well site shall not be used for the storage of pipe, equipment (except for
that equipment required for safety purposes) or materials, except during the
drilling or servicing of the well or of the production facilities. (2000 Code §
5-719)
5-720: MOTIVE POWER AND MUFFLERS:
The motive power for all operations after completion of drilling operations
shall be by electricity produced off site; provided, that the city may waive
this requirement and permit other types of power with or without mufflers.
(2000 Code §
5-720)
5-721: STORAGE TANKS:
No person shall use, construct or operate in connection with any producing well
within the city limits any crude oil storage tanks, except to the extent of two
(2) steel tanks for oil storage, not exceeding five hundred (500) barrels
capacity each, and so constructed and maintained as to be vaportight. Each tank
shall be surrounded by an earthen firewall at such distance from the tanks as
will under any foreseeable circumstances hold and retain at least one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the maximum capacity of such tank. Permittee may use,
construct and operate a steel conventional separator, and such other steel
tanks and appurtenances as are necessary for treating oil, with each of such
facilities to be so constructed and maintained as to be vaportight. Each oil/
gas separator shall be equipped with both a regulation pressure release safety
valve and a bursting head. No such tanks may be located within three hundred
feet (300') of a residence, or within three hundred feet (300') of any building
or structure not owned by the permittee, or permittee's employees and
contractors. (2000 Code §
5-721)
5-722: FENCING, LANDSCAPING, ETC.:
   A.   Any person who completes any well for production, injection or disposal
shall enclose the well, together with the surface facilities and storage tanks,
by a substantial chainlink or wire mesh fence eight feet (8') high with barbed
wire at the top and properly built as to ordinarily keep persons and animals
out of the enclosure. All gates thereto shall be kept locked when the permittee
or his employees are not within the enclosure. The city council (either as part
of the original permit or as a part of any renewal thereof) may require, in
addition to the fence or in substitution therefor, visual screening of a type
to be specified. The city council may ban walking beams on the surface, instead
requiring submersible pumps or enclosed and/or buried structures. Once erected,
all fences and visual screening and landscaping shall be properly maintained.
   B.   The city council may require landscaping in areas of operation which
are in any developed area or within five hundred feet (500') of any school,
church, public way or place of public assembly. If required by the city
council, the landscaping shall include screening by a fenced enclosure
constructed of one of the following materials:
      1.   A solid masonry wall;
      2.   A chainlink fabric with three and one-half inch (31/2") mesh
interwoven with redwood slats. The city manager or his designee may approve the
use of other opaque materials for use with chainlink fabric if he finds such
materials are compatible with surrounding uses and effectively screen the oil
operation;
      3.   Any other material, compatible with surrounding uses, which
effectively screen the oil operation site and is approved by the city manager
or his designee; or
      4.   All fencing, masonry walls, redwood slatting, or other comparable
materials for use with chainlink fabric, shall be of a solid neutral color,
compatible with surrounding uses, and maintained in a neat, orderly and secure
condition. Neutral colors shall include sand, gray and unobtrusive shades of
green, blue and brown.
   C.   Minimum setbacks for all screening shall in no case be less than twenty
five feet (25') from the ultimate right of way of any public street.
   D.   Prior to the issuance of any permit, a landscaping plan which meets the
requirements of this chapter, shall be submitted for review and approval by the
fire chief and the city manager. Within sixty (60) days after completion of
drilling or redrilling, or within sixty (60) days after conversion of an
abandoned well, any oil operation site in an area as described in subsection A
of this section shall be landscaped in conformance with the plan as approved,
and the specifications contained in this chapter.
   E.   The minimum area required to be landscaped at an oil or gas operation
site shall be that area between each lot boundary line fronting a public
street, and a line or lines drawn parallel to each lot boundary line fronting
on a public street and through the center of any well or tank on such site.
When there is more than one well or tank on an oil or gas operation site, the
well or tank closest to each boundary line fronting on a public street shall be
used to determine the minimum landscape area. Any area enclosed by a fence
meeting the requirements of this section shall be excluded from the minimum
area to be landscaped.
   F.   The minimum number of trees and shrubs per square foot shall be as
follows:
Square Footage Of Minimum Landscape Minimum Trees Minimum Shrubs
Square Footage Of Minimum Minimum Trees Minimum Shrubs
Landscape
0 - 149                   1             3
150 - 249                 2             6
250 - 349                 3             9
350 - 449                 4             12
450 - 549                 5             15
550 - 649                 6             18
650 - 749                 7             21
750 - 849                 8             24
850 - 949                 9             27
950 - 1,499               10            30
1,500 - 1,999             12            36
2,000                     As determined by the city manager or his designee
 
      1.   Trees shall be at least fifteen (15) gallon size, and shrubs shall
be at least five (5) gallon size. Minimum landscaping shall also include
suitable ground cover and all landscaping shall be maintained; and
      2.   The city manager or his designee may reduce the number of trees and
shrubs if, in his opinion, the topography, configuration or existing vegetation
on a site warrants such reduction. (2000 Code §
5-722)
5-723: MOVEMENT OF HEAVY EQUIPMENT:
   A.   No person shall move or cause to be moved, over, upon or across any
paving or paved street or alley within this city, any piece of machinery of
extreme weight which exceeds the design limits of such pavement without having
first obtained express written permission from the city engineer.
   B.   Heavy equipment or vehicles used in the actual transportation of oil,
gas or deleterious substances shall not be moved nor cause to be moved across
streets or alleys within residential neighborhoods abutting kindergartens,
elementary schools or middle schools, whether such schools are public or
private, except such equipment may be moved upon major arterial streets. In
determining whether an institution is a school, certification by appropriate
state agencies that the institution is a school for any state purpose (other
than complying with health regulations) is conclusive proof under this chapter
that the institution is in fact a school.
   C.   Prior to the commencement of any drilling operations, all private roads
used for access to the drill site and the drill site itself shall be surfaced
at least with crushed rock, gravel or oiled and maintained to prevent dust and
mud. (2000 Code §
5-723)
5-724: WELL LOCATION SETBACKS:
No permit shall be issued for the drilling of an original well, or the reentry
of an abandoned well, at any location which is nearer than two hundred feet
(200') from any permanent residence, commercial or office building, producing
fresh water well, easement or boundary line; provided, that the city council
may require greater setbacks. No well shall be drilled or operated within fifty
feet (50') of any recovery heater, oil storage tank or source of ignition, nor
within three hundred feet (300') of any building used as a place of public
assembly, institution or school. (2000 Code §
5-724)
5-725: NOISE, DUST, ODORS AND OTHER NUISANCES:
   A.   All oil or gas drilling and production operations shall be conducted in
such a manner as to eliminate, as far as practical, dust, noise, vibration or
noxious odors, and shall be in accordance with the best accepted practices
incident to the drilling for, and production of, oil, gas and other hydrocarbon
substances. Proven technological improvements in exploration, drilling and
production methods shall be adopted as they become, from time to time, capable
of reducing factors of nuisance and annoyance in accordance with prudent
practices in the industry.
   B.   At the time of authorizing the permit or renewal is granted, the city
council may specify hours of operation to reduce or eliminate noise when
drilling takes place within one thousand feet (1,000') of a hospital, rest
home, school (including preschools and nurseries), church or place of public
assembly. These limits do not apply to emergency repairs necessary to meet
safety requirements. The city council may restrict operations between eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on any day, and during
regularly scheduled public meeting for a period not to exceed four and one-half
(41/2) consecutive hours, as is required by the circumstances to be compatible
with the specified public use. (2000 Code §
5-725)
5-726: FACILITIES:
All lease equipment shall be painted and maintained in a good state of
appearance. The facilities shall have posted in a prominent place a metal sign
no less than two feet (2') square in area, upon which the following information
shall be conspicuous:
   A.   Permittee's name;
   B.   Lease name;
   C.   Location of the drill site by reference to the United States survey;
and
   D.   Identifying number of the permit issued by the city. (2000 Code §
5-726)
5-727: FIRE PREVENTION:
Adequate firefighting apparatus and supplies approved by the city fire
department shall be maintained on the drilling site at all times during
drilling and production operations. All machinery, equipment and installations
on all drilling sites within the city limits shall conform with such
requirements as may from time to time be issued by the fire department. (2000
Code §
5-727)
5-728: FRACTURE AND ACIDIZING:
On the completion of an oil or gas injection, disposal or production well,
where acidizing or fracturing processes are used, no oil, gas or other
deleterious substances or pollutants shall be permitted to pollute any surface
or subsurface freshwaters on any land. (2000 Code §
5-728)
5-729: PLUGGING AND RESTORATION:
   A.   Within ninety (90) days after any well is abandoned, the permittee and
the operator of the well shall plug the well in a manner which meets or exceeds
the requirements of the corporation commission and the environmental protection
agency. No surface casing nor conductor string may be pulled or removed from
the well. Within six (6) months of ceasing operations voluntarily or of
abandonment, all lands upon which a drilling or production operation was
conducted shall be restored as nearly as practicable to the previous topography
by the permittee and the operator, unless the city council excuses restoration
in this form.
   B.   Upon the failure to comply with this section, the city (directly or
under contract with others) may proceed to plug the well, restore the surface
and recover its costs under the bonds. (2000 Code §
5-729)
5-730: RUPTURE OF SERVICE CASING:
In the event a rupture, break or opening occurs on the surface or production
casing, the permittee, the operator and the drilling contractor shall each take
action to repair it, and shall each report the incident to the city promptly.
Actual repairs and actual reporting to the city by one shall be considered
adequate; however, a mistaken belief held in good faith that others have
performed as required does not relieve the permittee, the operator or the
drilling contractor of their independent obligations, nor does it provide a
defense to a prosecution for violation of this section. (2000 Code §
5-730)
5-731: DEPOSITING OIL PRODUCTS:
No person shall deposit, drain or divert into or upon any public highway,
street, alley, paving, drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, creek,
stream, river, lake, pond or lagoon any oil or oily liquid with petroleum
content, or any mud, rotary mud, sand or salt water; or in any manner permit by
seepage, overflow or otherwise, any of such substances to escape from any
property owned, leased or controlled by such person; nor shall any person allow
such substances to flow or be carried onto or upon any public highway, street,
alley, paving, drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, creek, stream,
river, lake, pond or lagoon within the city. (2000 Code §
5-731)
5-732: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
Persons drilling, operating or maintaining a well shall use all necessary care
and take all precautions which are reasonably necessary under the circumstances
to protect the public. Provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be the
minimum requirements for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and welfare. Compliance with the terms hereof shall not be deemed to relieve
any person of any additional duty imposed by law. A sign measuring twenty four
inches by thirty inches (24" x 30"), containing the name, address and emergency
phone number of the oil producing company and operator shall be posted
prominently on the gate to the well site. (2000 Code §
5-732)
5-733: CORPORATION COMMISSION AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION:
Copies of all applications, notice, forms, records, logs and like documents
filed by either the permittee or the operator with the corporation commission
or the environmental protection agency shall be filed with the city within one
week of filing with the corporation commission or the environmental protection
agency. All such items filed under this section shall be kept confidential to
the same extent as the state and federal laws, and the rules of the corporation
commission or the environmental protection agency, require the submitted
material to be kept confidential. Actual notice of all hearings concerning the
well or the lease shall be given the city, sufficient to allow proper
preparation and attendance by the city attorney or his designated
representative. (2000 Code §
5-733)
5-734: ACCUMULATION OF VAPOR:
The city shall have the authority, upon order from the city manager or the fire
marshal, to require the immediate shutting in or closing of any well if there
exists any gas or gasoline vapor in sufficient quantity to constitute a fire
hazard within a one hundred foot (100') radius of any well. The determination
of the amount of vapor constituting a fire hazard shall be based upon the good
faith judgment of the city manager or of the fire marshal. The well shall
remain shut or closed in until the hazard and its cause are removed. (2000 Code
§
5-734)
5-735: INGRESS AND EGRESS:
Lease roads shall be maintained in such a manner as to safely and comfortably
allow for ingress and egress of city or state personnel traveling in a common
passenger motor vehicle. (2000 Code §
5-735)
5-736: APPEALS:
Any permittee aggrieved by any order, directive or ruling issued by the city
manager or any city employee, other than the municipal judge, may appeal the
same to the city council, which will hear the matter at its next regularly
scheduled meeting following notice as set out hereafter. Filing such appeals
shall not stay the enforcement of the order or the provisions of this chapter.
Appeal to the city council shall be initiated by filing with the office of the
city manager, within fifteen (15) days of the issuance of any such order,
directive or ruling, a written statement by permittee stating the order,
directive or ruling from which he appeals, together with a short statement of
the basis for the appeal. The city council, upon hearing the matter, may issue
whatever ruling or order is appropriate and relates to the issues raised in the
appeal, or continue the same for further evidence and investigation that the
order, directive or ruling is in keeping with the spirit and purpose of this
chapter. (2000 Code §
5-736)
5-737: RECOMMENDATIONS AND COUNCIL REVIEW:
Upon the consideration of any application for permit required by the terms of
this chapter, city staff shall recommend approval or disapproval thereof,
together with recommendations as to any modifications or conditions to the city
council, who shall review the matter at a regularly scheduled meeting. The
council may adopt, amend, revise or reject the recommendations and impose
appropriate conditions thereto. (2000 Code §
5-737)
5-738: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Prior to the hearing specified in sections
5-736 and
5-737 of this chapter, notice of public hearing is required. The notice shall
include the legal description of the lease, the date, time and place of the
public hearing, and that application has been filed for a permit for the
drilling of oil or gas wells on the property; provided, that multiple
applications for wells on a single lease may be combined into a single notice
so long as the notice specifies the number of wells being applied for.
   B.   This notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city not less than fifteen (15) days, but not more than
thirty (30) days, prior to such public hearing. The applicant is responsible
for arranging for the publication.
   C.   All hospitals and schools, whether public or private, shall be entitled
to notice by mail as described above if they are within one-half (1/2) mile of
the exterior boundary of the lease. (2000 Code §
5-738)
5-739: APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING CONDITIONS:
This chapter shall apply to any person drilling an original well, reentering an
abandoned well, conducting natural or artificial production projects or
operations, or maintaining a disposal well within the city on or after November
4, 1982; and every person whose activity preexists the effective date hereof
shall have no longer than ninety (90) days to come into compliance with this
chapter; provided, that:
   A.   No initial permit fee shall be charged such person as would otherwise
apply; or
   B.   No penalty shall be sought against any activity violative of this
chapter where such activity preexisted the adoption of this chapter and was
otherwise in compliance with the applicable state law, rules, regulations,
standards or directives and previous municipal ordinances. (2000 Code §
5-739)
5-740: SERVICE COMPANIES:
Upon request of the city manager or his representative, service companies or
other persons shall furnish and file reports and records showing perforating,
hydraulic fracturing, cementing, shooting, chemical treatment, and all other
service operations on any site covered by this chapter. The material provided
will remain confidential where confidentiality is granted by the state. (2000
Code §
5-740)
5-741: ZONING:
Permits shall be issued only on unplatted land which is not being used as a
public or private park, forest preserve, wildlife preserve not operated for
profit, municipal community recreation center or community play field. (2000
Code §
5-741)
5-742: DRILLING NEAR SCHOOL OR HOSPITAL PROPERTY:
The city council may require additional safeguards to prevent dust, noise, odor
and vibration as the result of oil and gas operations within one-half (1/2)
mile of any school or hospital; may ban flaring; and may require that all the
equipment, facilities and operations after drilling is complete, be enclosed
and conducted underground in specified buried enclosures. Such safeguards shall
be designed and imposed on due consideration of the special circumstances and
increased sensitivity of the occupants of these institutions. (2000 Code §
5-742)
5-743: STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC EASEMENTS:
No well shall be drilled and no permit shall be issued for any well at any
location which is within any street or alley of the city; no street, alley or
public easement shall be blocked, encumbered or closed in any drilling or
production operation, except by special permission issued by the city and then
only temporarily; nor shall any street, alley or public easement be used for
the transmission of oil or natural gas, except by special permission issued by
the city which specifically describes the route of transmission. However, this
section shall not be construed to forbid transportation by motor vehicle or
train. (2000 Code §
5-743)
5-744: PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions hereof, irrespective of whether or not the
verbiage of each such section contains specific language that such violation or
failure is unlawful or is an offense. Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, or any of the provisions of the drilling and
operating permit issued pursuant hereto, or any condition of the bond filed by
the permittee pursuant to this chapter, or who shall neglect to comply with the
terms thereof, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall, upon conviction,
be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Violation of each separate provision of this chapter, and
each separate provision of the permit, and each separate provision of the bond,
shall be considered a separate offense, and each day's violation of each
separate provision hereof shall be considered a separate offense. In addition
to the foregoing penalties, it is further provided that the city council, at
any regular or special session or meeting thereof, may revoke or suspend any
permit issued under this chapter and under which drilling or production
operations are being conducted in the event the permittee thereof has violated
any provision of the permit, bond, or this chapter. Such revocation or
suspension may be ordered; provided, that ten (10) days prior to the hearing,
written notice was mailed or actual notice was given to the permittee at his
last known address that revocation is to be considered at a specified meeting.
In the event a permit is revoked, the permittee may make a new application to
the city for the reissuance of such permit, and the action of the city council
thereon shall be final.
   B.   Any continuing offense, or series of offenses violating the same
provision of this chapter even though not continuous, shall be grounds for
declaring the well a public nuisance and ordering abatement; such offenses on
previous permits may also be the sole basis for denial of other applications.
All remedies otherwise available under law remain available in addition to
those herein enumerated. (2000 Code §
5-744)
5-745: ENFORCEMENT:
The city manager and his duly authorized representatives, including the chief
of the fire department, the fire marshal, the city engineer and the chief of
inspections, shall enforce the provisions of this chapter, and shall have all
of the power and authority granted by law to peace and health officers.
Enforcement personnel may enter the lease premises for any purpose pursuant to
this code at all reasonable times to inspect same or to perform any duty
imposed by this code. No person having an ownership interest in or control of
the lease premises shall fail or neglect to permit prompt entry, after proper
demand, to the site of the oil and gas operations. (2000 Code §
5-745)
CHAPTER 8
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-801: Policy
5-802: Definitions
5-803: Unlawful Practice
5-804: Discrimination In The Sale Or Rental Of Housing
5-805: Discrimination In The Financing Of Housing
5-806: Discrimination In The Provision Of Brokerage Services
5-807: Exemption
5-808: Administration
5-809: Education And Conciliation
5-810: Enforcement
5-811: Investigation; Subpoenas; Giving Of Evidence
5-812: Enforcement By Private Persons
5-813: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation
5-814: Prevention Of Intimidation In Fair Housing Cases
5-801: POLICY:
It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations, for
fair housing throughout the city. (2000 Code §
5-801)
5-802: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein:
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under sections
5-804,
5-805 and
5-806 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof, which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant. (2000 Code §
5-802)
5-803: UNLAWFUL PRACTICE:
Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section, and section
5-807 of this chapter, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   A.   All dwellings, except as exempted by subsection B of this section;
   B.   Nothing in section
5-804 of this chapter shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that:
         a.   Such private individual owner does not own more than three (3)
such single-family houses at any one time;
         b.   In the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such
sale within any twenty four (24) month period;
         c.   Such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such single-family houses at any
one time;
         d.   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or
rented:
            (1)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesman, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such
facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman or
person; and
            (2)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection 5-804C of this
chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow, agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence;
   C.   For the purposes of subsection B of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      1.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      2.   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein;
      3.   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families. (2000 Code §
5-803)
5-804: DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING:
As made applicable by section
5-803 of this chapter, and except as exempted by subsection 5-803B and section
5-807 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, handicap or familial status;
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, sex, color, religion,
national original, handicap or familial status;
   C.   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, sex, color, religion or national origin, handicap or familial status, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, sex, color, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available; or
   E.   For profit to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, sex, color,
religion or national origin, handicap or familial status. (2000 Code §
5-804)
5-805: DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING:
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise, whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or their financial
assistance, because of the race, sex, color, religion, national origin,
handicap or familial status of such person, or of any person associated with
him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes
of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective
owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation
to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given;
provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or
effectiveness of the exception contained in subsection 5-803B of this chapter.
(2000 Code §
5-805)
5-806: DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, rental or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account
of race, sex, color, religion, national origin, handicap or familial status.
(2000 Code §
5-806)
5-807: EXEMPTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association or
society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or
controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association or
society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwelling which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, sex, color, national origin,
handicap or familial status. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a
private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its
primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such
lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members. (2000 Code §
5-807)
5-808: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the chief executive officer of the city.
   B.   The chief executive officer may delegate any of these functions, duties
and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including
functions, duties and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating,
hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to
any work, business or matter under this chapter. The chief executive officer
shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of his hearing
examiners to other hearing examiners, or to other officers in the city, to
boards of officers or to himself, as shall be appropriate and in accordance
with law.
   C.   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the chief executive officer to further such purposes. (2000 Code §
5-808)
5-809: EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION:
Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the chief executive officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing
industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of
this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor
with their advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of
enforcement. (2000 Code §
5-809)
5-810: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the chief executive officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as
the chief executive officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
chief executive officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or about to commit the alleged discriminatory
housing practice. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a complaint, or
within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any period of reference under
subsection C of this section, the chief executive officer shall investigate the
complaint and give notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he intends
to resolve it. If the chief executive officer decides to resolve the
complaints, he shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged
discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation
and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors
may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this
chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of
the chief executive officer who shall make public any information in violation
of this provision shall be, upon conviction, punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   B.   A complaint under subsection A of this section shall be filed within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice
occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which
the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may
be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer
to the complaint against him and with the leave of the chief executive officer,
which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may
amend his answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   C.   If, within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the chief
executive officer, the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within thirty
(30) days thereafter, file a complaint with the secretary of the department of
housing and urban development. The chief executive officer will assist in this
filing.
   D.   If the chief executive officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may,
within thirty (30) days hereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate
court, against the respondent named in the complaint to enforce the rights
granted or protected by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the
subject of the complaint. If the court finds that a discriminatory housing
practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent
from engaging in such practice or order such affirmative action as may be
appropriate.
   E.   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
   F.   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
chief executive officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance. (2000 Code §
5-810)
5-811: INVESTIGATION; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE:
   A.   In conducting an investigation, the chief executive officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and
other evidence or possible sources of evidence, and may examine, record and
copy such materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such
persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation;
provided, however, that the chief executive officer first complies with the
provisions of the fourth amendment relating to unreasonable searches and
seizures. The chief executive officer may issue subpoenas to compel his access
to or the production of such materials, or the appearance of such persons, and
may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to
the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were
issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court
for the district in which the investigation is taking place. The chief
executive officer may administer oaths.
   B.   Upon written application to the chief executive officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the chief executive officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show
on their face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they
were issued at his request.
   C.   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the chief executive officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him.
   D.   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the chief executive officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The chief executive officer shall grant the petition if he finds that
the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or
place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to any
matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous, or for other good reason.
   E.   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the chief executive
officer or other person at whose request it was issued may petition for its
enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which the
person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts
business.
   F.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order of the
chief executive officer, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the chief
executive officer, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement
of fact in any report, account, record or other document submitted to the chief
executive officer pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or shall wilfully
neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in
such reports, accounts, records or other documents, or shall wilfully mutilate,
alter or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be punished
as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   G.   The city attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the chief
executive officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
chapter. (2000 Code §
5-811)
5-812: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   The rights granted by sections
5-803,
5-804 and
5-806 of this chapter may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts
of general jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred;
provided, however, that the court shall continue such civil case brought
pursuant to this section or subsection 5-810D of this chapter from time to time
before bringing it to trial if the court believes that the conciliation efforts
of the chief executive officer are likely to result in satisfactory settlement
of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in the complaint made to
the chief executive officer and which practice forms the basis for the action
in court; and provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter, shall not be affected.
   B.   The court may grant as relief as it deems appropriate, any permanent or
temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order, and may award
to the plaintiff actual damages and punitive damages, together with court costs
and reasonable attorney fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided,
that the plaintiff, in the opinion of the court, is not financially able to
assume the attorney fees. (2000 Code §
5-812)
5-813: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by sections
5-803,
5-804 and
5-806 of this chapter. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil
action. (2000 Code §
5-813)
5-814: PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force,
wilfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of his race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap or familial status and because he is or has been selling, purchasing,
renting, financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the sale,
purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or
participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the business
of selling or renting dwellings;
   B.   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, sex,
color, religion, national origin, handicap or familial status in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A of
this section;
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   C.   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, sex, color,
religion, national origin, handicap or familial status, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A of
this section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to so participate, shall be punished as provided
in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
5-814)
CHAPTER 9
PENALTY
SECTION:
5-901: Penalty
5-902: Relief In The Courts
5-901: PENALTY:
Any person who shall engage in any business, trade or vocation for which a
license, permit, certificate or registration is required by this title without
having a valid license, permit, certificate, or certificate of registration as
required, or who shall fail to do anything required by this title or by any
code or provision adopted by this title, or who shall otherwise violate any
lawful regulation or order made by any of the officers provided for in this
title, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
5-901)
5-902: RELIEF IN THE COURTS:
No penalty imposed by and pursuant to this title shall interfere with the right
of the city also to apply to the proper courts of the state for a mandamus, an
injunction or other appropriate action against such person. (2000 Code §
5-902)
CHAPTER 10
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
5-1001: Fire Code Adopted
5-1001: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
The City of Stroud, Oklahoma, does hereby adopt the 2021 edition of the
International Fire Code, regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and
property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and
use of hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions
hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises. (Ord.
315, 1-14-2016; amd. Ord. 361, 3-9-2025)
CHAPTER 11
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
5-1101: Mechanical Code Adopted
5-1101: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The City of Stroud, Oklahoma, does hereby adopt the 2021 edition of the
International Mechanical Code, regulating and governing the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
mechanical systems. (Ord. 314, 1-14-2016; amd. Ord. 360, 3-9-2023)
CHAPTER 12
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
5-1201: Residential Code Adopted
5-1201: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
The City of Stroud, Oklahoma, does hereby enact the 2015 edition of the
International Residential Code, regulating and governing the construction,
alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, location,
removal and demolition of detached one and two family dwellings and multiple
single family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three (3) stories in height
with separate means of egress. (Ord. 312, 1-14-2016)
CHAPTER 13
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
5-1301: Existing Building Code Adopted
5-1301: EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The City of Stroud, Oklahoma, does hereby enact the 2021 edition of the
International Existing Building Code, regulating and governing the repair,
alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings,
including historic buildings. (Ord. 316, 1-14-2016; amd. Ord. 362, 3-9-2023)
CHAPTER 14
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
5-1401: Property Maintenance Code Adopted
5-1401: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
The City of Stroud, Oklahoma, does hereby adopt the 2015 edition of the
International Property Maintenance Code, regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures: by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures in the City of Stroud; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor. (Ord. 318, 1-14-2016)
CHAPTER 15
ELECTRICAL SAFETY CODE
SECTION:
5-1501: Electrical Safety Code Adopted
5-1501: ELECTRICAL SAFETY CODE ADOPTED:
The city does hereby enact the 2011 edition of the national electrical safety
code for construction, maintenance and operation of electric supply and
equipment. (Ord. 265, 2-9-2012)
TITLE 6
COURT
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
6-101: Organization Of Municipal Court
6-102: Definitions
6-103: Jurisdiction Of Court
6-104: Judge; Qualifications
6-105: Term Of Judge
6-106: Alternate Judge
6-107: Acting Judge
6-108: Appointment Of Judge And Alternate Judge
6-109: Salary And Payments To Judges
6-110: Removal Of Judge
6-111: Vacancy In Office Of Judge
6-112: Disqualification Of Judge
6-113: Court Marshal
6-114: Clerk Of The Court; Duties
6-115: Prosecuting Attorney; Duties; Conflict Of Interest
6-116: Bond Of Court Clerk
6-117: Rules Of Court
6-118: Enforcement Of Rules
6-119: Written Complaints To Prosecute Ordinance Violations
6-120: Traffic Bail Bond Procedures
6-121: Creation Of Traffic Violations Bureau
6-122: Summons For Arrest; Failure To Appear
6-123: Form Of Arrest Warrant
6-124: Procedures For Bail Or Bond
6-125: Arraignment And Pleadings By Defendant
6-126: Trials And Judgments
6-127: Suspension Or Deferment Of Judgment, Powers
6-128: Imprisonment; Work By Prisoners
6-129: Fines And Costs; Enforcement Of Fines And Costs; Imprisonment, Work And
Community Service
6-129-1: Fees For Court And Incarceration Costs
6-130: Penalty Assessments
6-101: ORGANIZATION OF MUNICIPAL COURT:
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the Municipal
Criminal Court of the City, as put into operation by resolution duly passed on
January 13, 1969, and filed in accordance with law as authorized by 11 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 27-101 and 27-102. To the extent of conflict between any
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any ordinance of this City,
the provisions of this chapter shall control. The court shall be operative on
and after February 1, 1969. (2000 Code §
6-101)
6-102: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning, the
following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The peace officer in charge of the police force of the
Municipality.
CLERK: The Clerk of this Municipality, including any deputy or member of the
office staff of the Clerk while performing duties of the Clerk's Office.
COURT: The Municipal Criminal Court of the City of Stroud.
GOVERNING BODY: The City Council of the City of Stroud.
JUDGE: The Judge of the Municipal Criminal Court, including any Acting Judge or
Alternate Judge thereof as provided for by the Statutes of this State and this
chapter.
MUNICIPALITY OR THIS MUNICIPALITY: The City of Stroud, Oklahoma.
THIS JUDICIAL DISTRICT: The District Court Judicial District of the State of
Oklahoma wherein the government of this Municipality is situated. (2000 Code §
6-102)
6-103: JURISDICTION OF COURT:
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this Municipality is
charged, including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance
with applicable law. (2000 Code §
6-103)
6-104: JUDGE; QUALIFICATIONS:
There shall be one judge of the court. A judge must be duly licensed to
practice law in the state. He may engage in the practice of law in other
courts, but he shall not accept employment inconsistent with his duties as
judge, or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases
within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might become the
subject of proceedings therein. He need not reside in the municipality. (2000
Code §
6-104)
6-105: TERM OF JUDGE:
The official term of the judge shall be two (2) years, expiring January 1 in
each odd numbered year. Each judge, unless sooner removed for proper cause,
shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified. The judge of the
municipal court existing in this municipality as of February 1, 1969, shall act
as judge of the court herein provided for until a judge is appointed and
qualified under the terms of this chapter. (2000 Code §
6-105)
6-106: ALTERNATE JUDGE:
There shall be appointed for each judge of the court an alternate judge
possessed of the same qualifications as the judge. His appointment shall be for
the same term and made in the same manner as the judge. He shall sit as acting
judge of the court in any case if the judge is:
   A.   Absent from the court;
   B.   Unable to act as judge; or
   C.   Disqualified from acting as judge in the case. (2000 Code §
6-106)
6-107: ACTING JUDGE:
If at any time there is no judge or alternate judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as judge, the mayor shall appoint some person,
possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the judge, who shall
preside as acting judge over the court in the disposition of pending matters
until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be available. (2000 Code §
6-107)
6-108: APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE AND ALTERNATE JUDGE:
Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of
the governing body. A proposed appointment shall be submitted in writing to the
governing body at the next to the last regularly scheduled meeting prior to the
day upon which the appointment is to take effect, and shall be acted upon at
the next regularly scheduled meeting. The governing body may decide upon the
proposed appointment by a majority vote of a quorum present and acting. Failure
of decision upon a proposed appointment shall not prevent action thereon at a
later regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body unless the mayor, in
writing, withdraws the proposed appointment. (2000 Code §
6-108)
6-109: SALARY AND PAYMENTS TO JUDGES:
   A.   A judge, other than an alternate judge or an acting judge, shall
receive a salary as set by the governing body by motion or resolution, paid in
the same manner as the salaries of other officials of this municipality.
   B.   An alternate judge or an acting judge shall be paid an amount as set by
the governing body for each day devoted to the performance of his duties,
except that the total payments so calculated during any month shall not exceed
the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits. An alternate or acting judge
who sits for an entire month shall receive the amount specified in this chapter
as the salary of the judge in whose stead he sits. (2000 Code §
6-109)
6-110: REMOVAL OF JUDGE:
   A.   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the governing body
for the causes prescribed by the constitution and laws of this state for the
removal of public officers. Proceedings for removal shall be instituted by the
filing of a verified written petition setting forth facts sufficient to
constitute one or more legal grounds for removal. Petitions may be signed and
filed by:
      1.   The mayor; or
      2.   Twenty five (25) or more qualified electors of this municipality.
Verification of the number or qualifications of electors shall be executed by
one or more of the petitioners.
   B.   The governing body shall set a date for hearing the matter and shall
cause notice thereof, together with a copy of the petition, to be served
personally upon the judge at least ten (10) days before the hearing. At the
hearing, the judge shall be entitled to:
      1.   Representation by counsel;
      2.   To present testimony and to cross examine the witnesses against him;
and
      3.   Have all evidence against him presented in open hearing.
   C.   So far as they can be applicable, the provisions of the Oklahoma
administrative procedures act governing individual proceedings, 75 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 309 through 317, as amended, shall govern removal proceedings
hereunder. Judgment of removal shall be entered only upon individual votes, by
a majority of all members of the governing body, in favor of such removal.
(2000 Code §
6-110)
6-111: VACANCY IN OFFICE OF JUDGE:
   A.   A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
      1.   Dies;
      2.   Resigns;
      3.   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
      4.   Is removed, and the removal proceedings have been affirmed finally
in judicial proceedings or are no longer subject to judicial review.
   B.   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the mayor
shall appoint a successor to complete the unexpired term in the same manner as
an original appointment is made. (2000 Code §
6-111)
6-112: DISQUALIFICATION OF JUDGE:
In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed; but the
judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge appointed as provided in this
chapter. (2000 Code §
6-112)
6-113: COURT MARSHAL:
All writs or process of the court shall be directed, in his official title, to
the chief of police of this municipality, who shall be the principal officer of
the court. (2000 Code §
6-113)
6-114: CLERK OF THE COURT; DUTIES:
The clerk, or a deputy designated by him, shall be the clerk of the court. He
shall assist the judge in recording the proceedings of the court and in
preparing writs, processes and other papers. He shall administer oaths required
in proceedings before the court. He shall enter all pleadings, processes and
proceedings in the dockets of the court. He shall perform such other clerical
duties relating to the proceedings of the court as the judge shall direct. He
shall receive and receipt for forfeitures, fines, deposits and sums of money
payable to the court. He shall pay to the treasurer of this municipality on the
first and fifteenth day of each month all money so received by him, except such
special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by him for
special purposes. All money paid to the treasurer shall be placed in the
general fund of the municipality, or in such other funds as the governing body
may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the municipal government
in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in which it is
placed. (2000 Code §
6-114)
6-115: PROSECUTING ATTORNEY; DUTIES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The attorney for this municipality, or his duly designated assistant, shall be
the prosecuting officer of the court. He shall also prosecute all alleged
violations of the ordinances of the city. He shall be authorized, in his
discretion, to prosecute and resist appeal, proceedings in error and review
from this court to any other court of the state, and to represent this
municipality in all proceedings arising out of matters in this court. (2000
Code §
6-115)
6-116: BOND OF COURT CLERK:
The court clerk of the court shall give bond, in the form provided by 11
Oklahoma Statutes section
17-111, in a sum to be determined by the governing body. When executed, the
bond shall be submitted to the governing body for approval. When approved, it
shall be filed with the clerk of this municipality and retained in the
municipal archives. (2000 Code §
6-116)
6-117: RULES OF COURT:
The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of this municipality, for the proper conduct of the business of
the court. (2000 Code §
6-117)
6-118: ENFORCEMENT OF RULES:
Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the judge or by the court
may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt committed
as to him while holding court, or committed against process issued by him, in
the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts of the state.
(2000 Code §
6-118)
6-119: WRITTEN COMPLAINTS TO PROSECUTE ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS:
All prosecutions for violations of ordinances of this municipality shall be
styled "The city of Stroud vs. (naming defendant or defendants)". Except as
provided hereinafter, prosecution shall be initiated by the filing of a written
complaint, subscribed and verified by the person making complaint, and setting
forth concisely the offense charged and approved for filing by the city
attorney. (2000 Code §
6-119)
6-120: TRAFFIC BAIL BOND PROCEDURES:
   A.   In addition to other provisions of law for posting bail, any person,
whether a resident of this state or a nonresident, who is arrested by a law
enforcement officer solely for a misdemeanor violation of a state traffic law
or municipal traffic ordinance shall be released by the arresting officer upon
personal recognizance if:
      1.   The arrested person has been issued a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle by this state, another state jurisdiction within the United
States which is a party to the nonresident violator compact, or any party
jurisdiction of the nonresident violator compact;
      2.   The arresting officer is satisfied as to the identity of the
arrested person;
      3.   The arrested person signs a written promise to appear as provided
for on the citation; and
      4.   The violation does not constitute:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   Negligent homicide;
         c.   Driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while impaired or under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating
substances;
         d.   Eluding or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer;
         e.   Operating a motor vehicle without having been issued a valid
driver's license, or while the license is under suspension, revocation, denial
or cancellation;
         f.   An arrest based upon an outstanding warrant;
         g.   A traffic violation coupled with any offense stated in
subsections A4a through A4f of this section;
         h.   An overweight violation, or the violation of a special permit
exceeding the authorized permit weight; or
         i.   A violation relating to the transportation of hazardous
materials.
   B.   If the arrested person is eligible for release on personal recognizance
as provided for in subsection A of this section, then the arresting officer
shall:
      1.   Designate the traffic charge;
      2.   Record information from the arrested person's driver's license on
the citation form, including the name, address, date of birth, personal
description, type of driver's license, driver's license number, issuing state
and expiration date;
      3.   Record the motor vehicle make, model and tag information;
      4.   Record the arraignment date and time on the citation; and
      5.   Permit the arrested person to sign a written promise to appear as
provided for in the citation.
The arresting officer shall then release the person upon personal recognizance
based upon the signed promise to appear. The citation shall contain a written
notice to the arrested person that release upon personal recognizance based
upon a signed written promise to appear for arraignment is conditional and that
failure to timely appear for arraignment shall result in the suspension of the
arrested person's driver's license in this state, or in the nonresident's home
state pursuant to the nonresident violator compact.
   C.   Procedures for arraignment, continuances and scheduling, timely
appearances, pleas of guilty or nolo contendere, posting bail, payment of fines
and costs, issuance of arrest warrants, and requests for suspension of driver's
license, shall be as required in state law, 22 Oklahoma Statutes sections
1115.1 through 1115.5.
   D.   A defendant released upon personal recognizance may elect to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the violation charged at any time before
he is required to appear for arraignment by indicating such plea on the copy of
the citation furnished to him or on a legible copy thereof, together with the
date of the plea and his signature. The defendant shall be responsible for
assuring full payment of the fine and costs to the court clerk. The defendant
shall not use currency for payment by mail. If the defendant has entered a plea
of guilty or nolo contendere as provided for in this subsection, such plea
shall be accepted by the court and the amount of the fine and costs shall be as
prescribed by ordinance for the violation charged or as prescribed by the
court.
   E.   1. If, pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of this section, the
defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
and fails to timely appear for arraignment, the court may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the defendant and the municipal court clerk, within one hundred
twenty (120) calendar days from the date the citation was issued by the
arresting officer, shall notify the state department of public safety that:
         a.   The defendant was issued a traffic citation and released upon
personal recognizance after signing a written promise to appear for arraignment
as provided for in the citation;
         b.   The defendant has failed to appear for arraignment without good
cause shown;
         c.   The defendant has not posted bail, paid a fine, or made any other
arrangement with the court to satisfy the citation; and
         d.   The citation has not been satisfied as provided by law.
      2.   The court clerk shall request the state department of public safety
to either suspend the defendant's driver's license to operate a motor vehicle
in this state, or notify the defendant's home state and request suspension of
the defendant's driver's license in accordance with the provisions of the
nonresident violator compact. Such notice and request shall be on a form
approved or furnished by the state department of public safety. The court clerk
shall not process the notification and request provided for in this subsection
if, with respect to such charges:
         a.   The defendant was arraigned, posted bail, paid a fine, was jailed
or otherwise settled the case;
         b.   The defendant was not released upon personal recognizance upon a
signed written promise to appear as provided for in this section or if
released, was not permitted to remain on such personal recognizance for
arraignment;
         c.   The violation relates to parking or standing, an overweight
violation, an overweight permit, or the transportation of hazardous materials;
or
         d.   A period of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days or more has
elapsed from the date the citation was issued by the arresting officer.
   F.   The court clerk shall maintain a record of each request for driver's
license suspension submitted to the state department of public safety pursuant
to the provisions of this section. When the court or court clerk receives
appropriate bail or payment of the fine and costs, settles the citation, makes
other arrangements with the defendant, or otherwise closes the case, the court
clerk shall furnish proof thereof to such defendant, if the defendant
personally appears, or shall mail such proof by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the defendant at the address noted on the citation or at such other
address as is furnished by the defendant. Additionally, the court or court
clerk shall notify the home jurisdiction of the defendant as listed on the
citation, if such jurisdiction is a member of the nonresident violator compact,
and shall in all other cases, notify the state department of public safety of
the resolution of the case. The form of proof and the procedures for
notification shall be approved by the state department of public safety;
provided, however, the court or court clerk's failure to furnish such proof or
notice in the manner provided for in this subsection shall in no event create
any civil liability upon the court, the court clerk, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, or any state department or agency or any employee thereof
but duplicate proof shall be furnished to the person entitled thereto upon
request.
   G.   In addition to the provisions of section
6-129 of this chapter, if, pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of this
section, the defendant does not timely elect to enter a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere and fails to timely appear for arraignment, there shall be assessed,
taxed as additional costs and collected from the defendant a processing and
mailing fee in the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per citation coming
under the provisions hereof, which shall be in addition to any other costs of
the action or fine therefor. The municipal court clerk shall assess the same
upon processing the notification and request provided for in subsection E of
this section, and shall include and collect the same as such additional fees
under subsection F of this section.
   H.   If the defendant is not eligible for release upon personal recognizance
as provided for in this section, or if eligible but refuses to sign a written
promise to appear, the officer shall deliver the person to the judge for
arraignment and the judge shall proceed as otherwise provided for by law. If no
judge is available, the defendant shall be placed in the custody of the jailer,
to be held until a judge is available or bail is posted.
   I.   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a juvenile may be held in
custody pursuant to the provisions of this section, but shall be incarcerated
separately from any adult offender. The arresting officer shall not be required
to:
      1.   Place a juvenile into custody as provided for in this section;
      2.   Place any other traffic offender into custody:
         a.   Who is injured, disabled or otherwise incapacitated;
         b.   If custodial arrest may require impoundment of a vehicle
containing livestock, perishable cargo or items requiring special maintenance
or care; or
         c.   If extraordinary circumstances exist, which, in the judgment of
the arresting officer, custodial arrest should not take place.
In such cases, the arresting officer may designate the date and time for
arraignment on the citation and release the person. If the person fails to
appear without good cause shown, the court may issue a warrant for the person's
arrest. (2000 Code §
6-120)
6-121: CREATION OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU:
   A.   A traffic violations bureau hereby is established as a division of the
office of the clerk of the court, to be administered by the clerk, or by
subordinates designated by him for that purpose. Persons who are cited for
violation of one of the traffic regulatory ordinances of this municipality,
other than:
      1.   A second traffic offense within a twelve (12) month period;
      2.   A driver's license offense;
      3.   An offense in which a personal injury occurs; or
      4.   An offense punishable by a fine of more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) may elect to pay a fine in the traffic violations bureau according to
the schedule of fines to be determined by the governing body.
   B.   The court may adopt rules to carry into effect this section. Payment of
a fine under this section shall constitute a final determination of cause
against the defendant. If a defendant who has elected to pay a fine under this
section fails to do so, prosecution shall proceed under the provisions of this
chapter. (2000 Code §
6-121)
6-122: SUMMONS FOR ARREST; FAILURE TO APPEAR:
   A.   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of any ordinance, the
judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless the
defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and has
given bond for appearance, he shall issue a summons, naming the person charged,
specifying his address or place of residence, if known, stating the offense
with which he is charged and giving him notice to answer the charge in the
court on a certain day, five (5) days (Sundays and holidays excepted) after the
summons is served upon him, and including such other pertinent information as
may be necessary.
   B.   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If he fails to appear and to answer the summons within the
prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest, as provided by
this chapter.
   C.   Any person who has been duly served with a summons or traffic or other
citation and who has signed a written promise to appear in court as directed in
the summons or the citation or as subsequently directed by the court, or who
has been released and been allowed to remain on personal recognizance, and who
fails to appear pursuant to his written promise or as directed by the court
shall be deemed guilty of an offense, which shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
6-122)
6-123: FORM OF ARREST WARRANT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in the ordinances of this municipality,
upon the filing of a complaint approved by the endorsement of the attorney of
this municipality or by the judge, there shall be issued a warrant of arrest,
in substantially the following form:
The City of Stroud to the Marshal of the Municipal Criminal Court of Stroud,
Oklahoma.
Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant) that the
offense of (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has been
committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded therefor
forthwith to arrest the above named defendant and bring before me, at the
municipal courtroom.
Witness my hand this        day of         .
                                
   Judge of the Municipal Criminal Court
Stroud, Oklahoma
   B.   It shall be the duty of the marshal personally, or through a duly
constituted member of the police force of this municipality, or through any
other person lawfully authorized so to act, to execute a warrant as promptly as
possible. (2000 Code §
6-123)
6-124: PROCEDURES FOR BAIL OR BOND:
   A.   Upon arrest, or upon appearance without arrest in response to citation
or summons, or at any time before trial, before or after arraignment, the
defendant shall be eligible to be released upon giving bail for his appearance
in an amount and upon conditions fixed by this chapter or the judge, who shall
prescribe appropriate rules of court for the receipt of bail. In case of
arrests made at night or under other conditions or emergency or when the judge
is not available, the rules shall authorize the chief of police, or his
designated representative, to accept a temporary cash bond of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than the maximum monetary penalty provided by
ordinance for the offense charged.
   B.   The city bail bond schedule setting forth specific offenses and bail
bond amounts and procedures therefor, as amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference. (2000 Code §
6-124)
6-125: ARRAIGNMENT AND PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT:
Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be arraigned.
The judge, or the attorney of the municipality, shall read the complaint to the
defendant, inform him of his legal rights, including the right of trial by
jury, if available, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask him whether
he pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may
proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the
court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(2000 Code §
6-125)
6-126: TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may obtain
a reasonable postponement thereof.
   B.   The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
   C.   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or by the
statutes relating to municipal criminal courts, or by rules duly promulgated by
the supreme court of Oklahoma, the procedure applicable in trials of
misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the extent that they can be
made effective.
   D.   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after the trial, the
court must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits
prescribed by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly.
   E.   At the close of trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the
judge who shall cause it to be entered in his docket.
   F.   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once.
   G.   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may also direct that he be
imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one day imprisonment for
each five dollars ($5.00) of fine. If the defendant is without means to pay the
fine or costs, the municipal judge may direct the total amount due to be
entered upon the court minutes and to be certified to the district court of the
county wherein the situs of government is situated where it shall be entered
upon the district court judgment docket and shall have the full force and
effect of a district court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be
available for the enforcement of the judgment as are available to any other
judgment creditor. (2000 Code §
6-126)
6-127: SUSPENSION OR DEFERMENT OF JUDGMENT, POWERS:
   A.   The judge of the court in imposing a judgment and sentence, at his
discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce or suspend or defer the imposition
of such sentence, or any part thereof, and to authorize the person to be
released upon his own recognizance for a period not to exceed six (6) months
from the date of the sentence, under such terms or conditions as the judge may
specify. The judge may, with the consent of the defendant, defer further
proceedings, after a verdict, finding or plea of guilty, but before passing a
judgment of guilt and imposing a fine, and place the defendant on probation for
a period not to exceed six (6) months, under such terms and conditions as
prescribed by the court, which may include, but not be limited to, work on the
streets, parks or other city owned or maintained projects, with proper
supervision.
   B.   A defendant is not entitled to a deferred sentence if the defendant has
been previously convicted of a felony.
   C.   Upon a finding of the court that the conditions of release have been
violated, the municipal judge may enter a judgment of guilty and may cause a
warrant to be issued for the defendant.
   D.   Upon the issuance of the warrant or judgment of guilty being entered,
the person shall be delivered forthwith to the place of confinement to which he
is sentenced and shall serve out the full term or pay the full fine for which
he was originally sentenced as may be directed by the judge.
   E.   The judge may continue or delay imposing a judgment and sentence for a
period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of the sentence. At
the expiration of such period, the judge may allow the city attorney to amend
the charge to a lesser offense.
   F.   If a deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative fee of not more
than the fine and costs assessable had the deferral not been granted may be
imposed as costs in the case. The court may make payment of the fee a condition
of granting or continuing the imposition of a sentence, if the defendant is
able to pay.
   G.   The court may also require restitution, and in the event there was
damage done to public or private property during the commission of the offense,
the court may require the defendant to repair or replace such damaged property
as a condition to a deferred sentence as may be directed by the court. (2000
Code §
6-127)
6-128: IMPRISONMENT; WORK BY PRISONERS:
   A.   If after conviction, judgment of imprisonment is entered, a copy
thereof, certified by the clerk, shall be delivered to the chief of police, the
sheriff of the county or other appropriate police officer. Such copy shall be
sufficient warrant for execution of the sentence.
   B.   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may
be compelled, if their health permits, to work on the public streets, avenues,
alleys, parks, buildings, or other public premises or property. For each day of
such work, the prisoner shall be credited for serving two (2) days of
imprisonment under his sentence.
   C.   The chief of police, subject to the direction of the city manager,
shall direct where the work shall be performed. The head of the department in
charge of the place where the work is to be performed, himself or by some
person designated by him, shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the
Chief of Police shall make provision therefor. (2000 Code §
6-128)
6-129: FINES AND COSTS; ENFORCEMENT OF FINES AND COSTS; IMPRISONMENT, WORK AND
COMMUNITY SERVICE:
   A.   If judgment of conviction is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax
the costs to the defendant, which shall be in the amount set by the City
Council by motion or resolution, or the maximum allowed by State law, whichever
is greater.
   B.   If a defendant who is financially able refuses or neglects to pay a
fine or costs or both, payment may be enforced by imprisonment until the same
shall be satisfied at the rate of not less than five dollars ($5.00) per day.
   C.   If the defendant is without means to pay the fine or costs, the
Municipal Judge may direct the total amount due to be entered upon the court
minutes and to be certified to the District Court, where it shall be entered
upon the District Court docket and shall have the full force and effect of a
District Court judgment. Thereupon, the same remedies shall be available for
the enforcement as are available to any other judgment creditor.
   D.   All prisoners confined to jail on conviction or on plea of guilty may
be compelled, if their health permits, to work on community projects, the
public streets, avenues or ways, public buildings or other public premises or
property. For each day of such work, the prisoner or defendant shall be
credited for two (2) days of imprisonment toward any fine or costs or witness
or juror fees or mileage until the same are satisfied.
   E.   The City shall direct where the work shall be performed. The
appropriate officer shall oversee the work. If a guard is necessary, the Chief
of Police shall make provision therefor.
   F.   The provisions of this section shall be effective only so long as they
are mandated by State law. (2000 Code §
6-129)
6-129-1: FEES FOR COURT AND INCARCERATION COSTS:
   A.   Cost Determined: Except as provided in 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
14-111, the City does hereby determine that court costs which may be charged
and collected by the City Court Clerk in connection with Municipal offenses
shall forthwith be the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) per case or offense, plus
the fees and mileage of jurors and witnesses. (Ord. 245, 9-10-2009)
      1.   Fines And Costs: If a judgement of conviction or deferral of
sentence is entered, the Clerk of the Court shall tax all court costs in such
amount as authorized by State law in effect on the date of the offense.
      2.   Costs Of Incarceration: The Municipal Judge shall require a person
who is actually received into custody at a jail facility or who is confined in
a City or County Jail or holding facility, for any Stroud Municipal Court
offense, to pay the jail facility or holding facility the costs of
incarceration, both before and after conviction, upon conviction or receiving a
deferred sentence. Unless already collected by incarcerating facility, the
costs of incarceration shall be collected by the Clerk of the Court as provided
for collection of costs and fines, which shall be subject to review under
procedures set forth in rule 8.1 et seq., of the rules of Oklahoma Court of
Criminal Appeals. Costs of incarceration shall include booking, receiving and
processing out, housing, food, clothing, medical care, dental care, psychiatric
services and any other expenses allowed by State law. The costs of
incarceration shall be an amount equal to the actual cost of the services and
shall be determined by the Chief of Police for City jails and holding
facilities, by the County Sheriff for County jails or by contract amount if
applicable.
      3.   Debt Of Defendant: Costs of incarceration shall be a debt of the
defendant owed to the Municipality, County, or other public entity responsible
for the operation of the jail or holding facility and may be collected as
provided by law for collection of any other civil debt or criminal penalty.
      4.   Reduction In Costs Of Incarceration: The court shall not waive the
costs of incarceration in their entirety. However, if the court determines that
a reduction in the fine, costs, and cost of incarceration is warranted, the
court shall equally apply the same percentage reduction to the fine, costs, and
costs of incarceration owed by the defendant. (Ord. 334, 9-1-2017)
   B.   Collection Procedures:
      1.   The Municipal Court seeking to collect unpaid fines and costs of at
least fifty dollars ($50.00) from an individual who has filed a State Income
Tax return may file a claim with the Oklahoma Tax Commission requesting that
the amount owed to the Municipal Court be deducted from any State Income Tax
refund due to that individual. The claim shall be filed electronically in a
form prescribed by the Oklahoma Tax Commission and shall contain information
necessary to identify the person owing the debt, including the full name and
social security number of the debtor, all in accordance with 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 205.2.
      2.   The Municipal Court shall send notice to the Municipal Court
defendant by first class mail at the last known address of the Municipal Court
defendant as shown by the records of the Tax Commission when seeking to collect
unpaid Municipal fines and costs. The notice shall state:
         a.   That a claim has been filed;
         b.   The basis for the claim;
         c.   That the Municipal Court has applied to the Tax Commission for
any portion of the tax refund due to the Municipal Court defendant which would
satisfy the unpaid Municipal Court fines and costs, in full or in part;
         d.   That the Municipal Court defendant has the right to contest the
claim by sending a written request to the Municipal Court for a hearing to
protest the claim and, if the Municipal Court defendant fails to apply for a
hearing within sixty (60) days after the date of the mailing of the notice, the
Municipal Court defendant shall be deemed to have waived his or her opportunity
to contest the claim;
         e.   That a collection expense of five percent (5%) of the gross
proceeds owed to the Municipal Court shall be charged to the Municipal Court
defendant and withheld from the refund upon final determination of the debt or
final judgment at the hearing or upon failure of the debtor to request a
hearing; and
         f.   If the taxpayer settles the unpaid Municipal fines and costs
before the time to contest the claim expires, the Municipal Court shall notify
the Tax Commission in writing or by electronic media that the claim has been
released.
      3.   In the case of a joint return, the notice shall state:
         a.   The name of any taxpayer named in the return against whom no
unpaid fines and costs, or final judgment is claimed;
         b.   The fact that unpaid Municipal fines and costs are not claimed
against that taxpayer;
         c.   The fact that the taxpayer is entitled to receive a refund if it
is due regardless of the Municipal fines and costs asserted against the
Municipal Court defendant;
         d.   That in order to obtain the refund due, the taxpayer must apply,
in writing, for a hearing with the Municipal Court named in the notice within
sixty (60) days after the date of the mailing of the notice;
         e.   If the taxpayer against whom no Municipal fines and costs are
claimed fails to apply in writing for a hearing within sixty (60) days after
the mailing of the notice, the taxpayer shall have waived his or her right to a
refund.
      4.   If the Municipal Court asserting the claim receives a written
request for a hearing from the debtor or taxpayer against whom no Municipal
fines and costs are claimed, the Municipal Court shall grant a hearing
according to the provisions of the Administrative Procedures Act, 75 Oklahoma
Statutes section 250 et seq. It shall be determined at the hearing whether the
claimed sum is correct or whether an adjustment to the claim shall be made.
Pending final determination at the hearing of the validity of the unpaid fines
and costs asserted by the Municipal Court, no action shall be taken in
furtherance of the unpaid fines and costs. Appeals from actions taken at the
hearing shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative
Procedures Act.
      5.   Upon final determination at a hearing, as provided for in subsection
B4 of this section, of the amount of the unpaid fines and costs or upon failure
of the debtor or taxpayer against whom no unpaid fines and costs are claimed to
request such a hearing, the Municipal Court shall submit in the manner
prescribed by the Tax Commission notification of the action taken on the claim
and a request that the amount owed, including the collection expense, be
deducted from the tax refund due to the debtor and transferred to the Municipal
Court. However, if the tax refund due is inadequate to pay the unpaid fines and
costs, the balance due the Municipal Court shall be a continuing debt or final
judgment until paid in full.
      6.   The information obtained by the Municipal Court from the Tax
Commission pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be used only to aid
in collection of the unpaid fines and costs owed to the Municipal Court.
Disclosure of the information for any other purpose shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any court employee or other person convicted of violating this
provision shall be subject to a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) pursuant to State law and, if still employed by the courts, shall
be dismissed from employment.
      7.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to claims filed under
the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 2906 or 5011. (Ord. 245, 9-10-
2009)
6-130: PENALTY ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Any person:
      1.   Convicted of an offense punishable by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00)
or more or by imprisonment, excluding parking and standing violations; or
      2.   Forfeiting bond when charged with such an offense under subsection
A1 of this section,
shall pay a sum as set by State law as a separate penalty assessment for law
enforcement training, and as a separate fingerprinting fee, which shall be in
addition to and not in substitution for any and all fines and penalties and
costs otherwise provided for such offense. The court shall provide for separate
bail for the assessments; however, a defendant admitted to bail on an
undertaking by a surety may include the amount of the assessment in the
undertaking.
   B.   Upon conviction or bond forfeiture, the court shall collect the
assessment and deposit the monies for payment as required by State law.
   C.   At the end of every quarter the City shall deposit with the Oklahoma
State Treasury the funds deposited in the Law Enforcement Training Funds and
the AFIS (Automated Fingerprint Identification Fund) as required by law. The
Court Clerk shall also furnish to the State Treasury reports required on the
funds collected and penalty assessments imposed each quarter.
   D.   For the purpose of this section, "conviction" means any final
adjudication of guilt, whether pursuant to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
or otherwise, and any deferred or suspended sentence or judgment. (2000 Code §
6-130)
TITLE 7
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
FINANCE AND BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
7-101: Depositories Designated; Funds To Be Deposited
7-102: Funds Secured By Unit Collateral System
7-103: Contractual Services Defined For Purchasing
7-104: Purchases; How Made
7-105: When Prior Approval By The Council Is Required
7-106: Competitive Bidding
7-107: When Competitive Bidding For Purchases Is Not Required
7-108: Sales; Council To Declare Surplus Or Obsolete; Competitive Bidding
7-109: When Competitive Bidding For Sales Is Not Required
7-101: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED; FUNDS TO BE DEPOSITED:
All national or State banks and all savings and loan associations of the State
are hereby designated as depositories for the funds of the City. The City
Treasurer shall deposit daily all public funds received by him in such banks or
savings and loan associations. Such institutions where such funds are deposited
shall be required to meet the requirements of State law as depositories for
public funds and such deposits shall be secured as set forth in section
7-102 of this chapter. (2000 Code §
7-101)
7-102: FUNDS SECURED BY UNIT COLLATERAL SYSTEM:
The deposits of the City shall be secured by the unit collateral system
provided by the Oklahoma Statutes. (2000 Code §
7-102)
7-103: CONTRACTUAL SERVICES DEFINED FOR PURCHASING:
"Contractual services", for the purpose of this chapter, shall mean services
performed for the City by persons not in the employment of the City, and may
include the use of equipment or the furnishing of commodities in connection
with said services under express or implied contract. Contract services shall
include travel; freight; express; parcel post; postage; telephone; telegraph;
utilities; rents; printing and binding; repairs, alterations and maintenance of
buildings, equipment, streets and bridges, and other physical facilities of the
City; and other services performed for the City by persons not in the
employment of the City. (2000 Code §
7-103)
7-104: PURCHASES; HOW MADE:
All purchases of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services for
the offices, departments and agencies of the City government, shall be made by
the City Manager or by other City personnel in accordance with purchase
authorizations issued by the City Manager. (2000 Code §
7-104)
7-105: WHEN PRIOR APPROVAL BY THE COUNCIL IS REQUIRED:
Every contract for, or purchase of, supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services for more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) shall
require the prior approval of the City Council; and under no circumstances may
such contract or purchase be made without first obtaining the approval of the
Council. (Ord. 296, 5-8-2014)
7-106: COMPETITIVE BIDDING:
Before any purchase of, or contract for, supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services are made, as otherwise provided below, the City purchasing
authority shall submit to at least three (3) persons, firms or corporations
dealing in and able to supply the same, or to a smaller number if there are not
three (3) dealing in and able to supply the same, a request for quotation, or
invitation to bid, and specifications, to give them opportunity to bid; and/or
publish notice of the proposed purchase in a newspaper of general circulation
within the City. He shall favor a person, firm or corporation in the City when
this can be done without additional cost to the City; but he shall submit
requests for quotation to those outside the City when this may be necessary to
secure bids or to create competitive conditions, or when he thinks that by so
doing he can make a saving for the City; and shall purchase from them when he
can make a saving for the City. All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in
public at a designated time and place. He may repeatedly reject all bids, and
again may submit to the same or other persons, firms or corporations the
request for quotation, or invitation to bid and/or again publish notice of the
proposed purchase. He shall purchase from the bidder whose bid is most
advantageous to the City, considering price, quality, date of delivery and so
on, and in case of a tie, may purchase from one of those tying, or may divide
the purchase among those tying, always accepting the bid or bids most
advantageous to the City. (2000 Code §
7-106)
7-107: WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING FOR PURCHASES IS NOT REQUIRED:
The following may be purchased without giving an opportunity for competitive
bidding:
   A.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services whose cost does
not exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) in a single transaction;
   B.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services which can be
furnished only by a single dealer, or which have a uniform price wherever
bought;
   C.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services purchased from
another unit of government at a price deemed below that obtainable from private
dealers, including war surplus;
   D.   Contractual service, including, but not limited to, gas, electricity or
telephone service purchased from a public utility at a price or rate determined
by the State Corporation Commission or other government authority;
   E.   Supplies, materials, equipment or contractual service when purchased at
a price not exceeding a price set therefor by the State purchasing agency or
any other State agency hereafter authorized to regulate prices for things
purchased by the State, whether such price is determined by a contract
negotiated with a vendor or otherwise; and
   F.   Contractual services of a professional nature, such as engineering,
architectural and medical services. (2000 Code § 7-107; amd. Ord. 296, 5-8-
2014; Ord. 340, 5-22-2018)
7-108: SALES; COUNCIL TO DECLARE SURPLUS OR OBSOLETE; COMPETITIVE BIDDING:
No surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment of a value of more than
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) may be sold until the Council
shall have declared them obsolete or surplus. Before the City Manager sells any
surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment, except as otherwise
provided below, he shall advertise them for sale in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City or give notice in such other manner as he deems
necessary adequately to reach prospective buyers to give them opportunity to
make bids. All bids shall be sealed and shall be opened in public at a
designated time and place, except when the sale is by auction. The City Manager
may repeatedly reject all bids and advertise or give notice again. He shall
sell such supplies, materials or equipment to the highest responsible bidder
for cash. In case of a tie, he may sell to either of the bidders tying, or may
divide the sale among two (2) or more tying, always selling to the highest
responsible bidder or bidders for cash. (2000 Code §
7-108)
7-109: WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING FOR SALES IS NOT REQUIRED:
The City Manager may sell the following without giving an opportunity for
competitive bidding:
   A.   Surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or equipment whose total value
does not exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) in a single
transaction; and
   B.   Supplies, materials or equipment when sold at a price at least as great
as that paid by the City for the same. (2000 Code §
7-109)
CHAPTER 2
SALES TAX
SECTION:
7-201: Citation And Codification
7-202: Definitions
7-203: Tax Collector Defined
7-204: Classification Of Taxpayers
7-205: Subsisting State Permits
7-206: Effective Date
7-207: Purpose Of Revenues
7-208: Tax Rate; Sales Subject To Tax
7-209: Exemptions; Sales Subject To Other Tax
7-210: Exemptions; Governmental And Nonprofit Entities
7-211: Exemptions; General
7-212: Exemptions; Agriculture
7-213: Exemptions; Manufacturers
7-214: Exemptions; Corporations And Partnerships
7-215: Tax Due When; Returns; Records
7-216: Payment Of Tax; Brackets
7-217: Tax Constitutes Debt
7-218: Vendor's Duty To Collect Tax; Penalties
7-219: Returns And Remittances; Discounts
7-220: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
7-221: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
7-222: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
7-223: Fraudulent Returns
7-224: Records Confidential
7-225: Amendments
7-226: Provisions Cumulative
7-201: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF STROUD SALES TAX
ORDINANCE.
Ord. 45, eff. 7-1-1970, levied a first $0.01 tax.
Ord. 80, election held 5-18-1976, eff. 7-1-1976, levied an additional $0.01 tax
for the hospital authority.
Ord. 104, eff. 1-1-1981, levied another $0.01 for utilities authority purposes.
Ord. 122, 6-10-1985, amended the purposes of the levies.
Ord. 157, 3-4-1993, amended the purposes of the levies.
Ord. 171, 10-2-1997, levied an additional $0.01 tax for a 5 year period. (2000
Code §
7-201)
Ord. 277, eff. 7-1-2013, levied an additional $0.01 tax for capital
expenditures. (Ord. 277, 1-24-2013, eff. 7-1-2013)
7-202: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1352, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter. For the purpose of this chapter, "sale" shall
include the sale, preparation or service of ice or nonalcoholic beverages that
are sold, prepared or served for the purposes of being mixed with alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where such sale, preparation or
service occurs. (2000 Code §
7-202)
7-203: TAX COLLECTOR DEFINED:
The term "tax collector", as used in this chapter, means the department of the
City or the official agency of the State duly designated according to law or
contract, and authorized by law to administer the collection of the tax levied
in this chapter. (2000 Code §
7-203)
7-204: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by State law for purposes of the Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code. (2000 Code §
7-204)
7-205: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purpose of this
chapter, hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for
an additional City permit for the same purpose. (2000 Code §
7-205)
7-206: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter became effective as to the first cent tax at least thirty (30)
days after approval of a majority of the registered voters of the City voting
on the ordinance in the manner prescribed by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 16-
112. (2000 Code §
7-206)
7-207: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues for
use as follows:
   A.   Revenues from one percent (1%) Excise Tax shall be used to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the Municipal government of the
City;
   B.   Revenues from one percent (1%) Excise Tax shall be used to provide
revenues for the following purposes:
      1.   Sixty six percent (66%) of the one percent (1%) Excise Tax reference
in this subsection shall be used to assist the trustees of the Stroud hospital
authority:
         a.   In paying principal, interest and debt service requirements on
two (2) promissory notes dated September 9, 1977, and initially issued in favor
of the United States of America, acting through the farmers home
administration, which notes were issued in the original aggregate principal
amount of two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) (collective, the "hospital
notes");
         b.   Assisting the hospital authority in meeting the costs of
operation and maintenance of Stroud's hospital facilities and any capital costs
associated therewith; provided, however, that the Excise Tax revenues shall not
be utilized for the purposes referenced in this subsection B1b without the
prior approval of the City Council of the City. Upon receipt of the sixty six
percent (66%) of the Excise Tax referenced in this subsection, the City will
cause the portion of the Excise Tax receipts to be deposited in a special trust
account which may be drawn upon by the Stroud hospital authority for the above
described purposes and for maintenance of a special reserve account. Upon
payment or provision for payment of the referenced hospital notes, the revenues
attributable to the sixty six percent (66%) of the Excise Tax referenced in
this subsection (including any sums accumulated in the special trust account
referenced above) shall be available generally for the support of the functions
of the Municipal government of the City;
      2.   Thirty four percent (34%) of the one percent (1%) Excise Tax
referenced in this subsection shall be used to provide revenues for the support
of the functions of the Municipal government of the City; and
   C.   Revenues from one percent (1%) Excise Tax shall be used for capital
expenditures for the use or benefit of the City or for payment of debt service
in connection with obligations issued to finance the capital expenditures;
   D.   Revenues from one percent (1%) Excise Tax shall provide revenues for
the use and benefit of the City and any public trust having the City as
beneficiary thereof, to be used to finance capital improvements benefiting the
City and/or debt service in connection with obligations heretofore issued or to
be issued to finance the capital improvements, the capital improvements to
include, but not by way of limitation, improvements at the proposed City
industrial park, recreational facilities, water and sanitary sewer system
improvements, and the construction and repair of streets and alleys within the
City. (2000 Code §
7-207)
   E.   Revenues from one percent (1%) Excise Tax shall provide revenues to be
used for capital expenditures within the City pertaining to the construction,
reconstruction, and improvement of streets, roads and sidewalks, as well as
related drainage improvements, all for the use and benefit of the City and any
public trust having the City as beneficiary thereof and/or for the payment of
debt service in connection with obligations heretofore issued or to be issued
to finance or refinance said capital expenditures and related costs. (Ord. 277,
1-24-2013, eff. 7-1-2013)
7-208: TAX RATE; SALES SUBJECT TO TAX:
There is hereby levied an Excise Tax of four percent (4%) upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code, including, but not exclusive of, the following: (2000 Code §
7-208)
   A.   Tangible personal property;
   B.   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service, except water and those specifically exempt by this
chapter;
   C.   Transportation for hire of persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, taxicab
companies, pullman car companies, airlines and all other means of
transportation for hire;
   D.   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or users,
including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This shall
include all services and rental charges having any connection with transmission
of any message;
   E.   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds and characters, and the
service of printing or overprinting, including the copying of information by
mimeograph or multigraph, or by otherwise duplicating written or printed matter
in any manner, or the production of microfiche containing information on
magnetic tapes furnished by customers;
   F.   Service of furnishing rooms by hotel, apartment hotel, public rooming
house, motel, public lodging house or tourist camps;
   G.   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels and
parking lots;
   H.   Selling, renting or otherwise furnishing computer hardware or software
or coding sheets, cards or magnetic tapes on which prewritten programs have
been coded, punched or otherwise recorded;
   I.   Food, confections and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   J.   Advertising of all kinds, types and character, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except those specifically exempt by this chapter;
   K.   Dues or fees to clubs including free or complimentary dues or fees
which shall have the value equivalent to the charge that would have otherwise
been made, including any fees paid for the use of facilities or services
rendered at a health spa or club or any similar facility or business;
   L.   Sales of tickets, fees or other charges made for admission to or
voluntary contributions made to places of amusement, sports entertainment,
exhibition, display or other recreational events or activities, including free
or complimentary admissions which shall have the value equivalent to the charge
that would have otherwise been made;
   M.   Charges made for the privilege of entering or engaging in any kind of
activity, when no admission is charged spectators, such as tennis, racquetball
or handball courts;
   N.   Charges made for the privilege of using items for amusement, sports,
entertainment or recreational activity, such as trampolines or golf carts;
   O.   The rental of equipment for amusement, sports, entertainment or other
recreational activities, such as bowling shoes, skates, golf carts, or other
sports and athletic equipment;
   P.   The gross receipts from sales through any vending machine, without any
deduction for rental to locate the vending machine on the premises of a person
who is not the owner or any other deductions therefrom;
   Q.   Gross receipts or gross proceeds from the rental or lease of tangible
personal property, including rental or lease of personal property when the
rental or lease agreement requires the vendor to launder, clean, repair or
otherwise service the rented or leased property on a regular basis, without any
deduction for the cost of the service rendered; provided, if the rental or
lease charge is based on the retail value of the property at the time of making
the rental or lease agreement and the expected life of the property, and the
rental or lease charge is separately stated from the service cost in the
statement, bill or invoice delivered to the consumer, the cost of services
rendered shall be deducted from the gross receipts or gross proceeds;
   R.   Any licensing agreement, rental, lease or other device or instrument
whereby rights to possess or exhibit motion pictures or filmed performances or
rights to receive images, pictures or performances for telecast by any method
are transferred; provided, persons regularly engaged in the business of
exhibiting motion pictures for which the sale of tickets or admissions is taxed
under this chapter shall not be deemed to be consumers or users in respect to
the licensing or exhibiting of copyrighted motion picture features, shorts,
cartoons and scenes from copyrighted features and the sale or licensing of such
films shall not be considered a sale within the purview of this chapter;
   S.   Flowers, plants, shrubs, trees and other floral items, whether or not
same was produced by the vendor, sold by persons engaged in florist or nursery
business in this state, including all orders taken by an Oklahoma business for
delivery in another state; provided, all orders taken outside this state for
delivery within this state shall not be subject to the tax levied by this
chapter;
   T.   Tangible personal property sold to persons, peddlers, solicitors or
other salespersons, for resale where there is likelihood that this state will
lose tax revenue due to the difficulty of enforcing this chapter because of:
      1.   The operation of the business;
      2.   The nature of the business;
      3.   The turnover of independent contractors;
      4.   The lack of place of business in which to display a permit or keep
records;
      5.   Lack of adequate records;
      6.   The persons are minors or transients;
      7.   The persons are engaged in service businesses; or
      8.   Any other reasonable reason;
   U.   Any taxable services and tangible personal property, including
materials, supplies and equipment sold to contractors for the purpose of
developing and improving real estate even though such real estate is intended
for resale as real property are hereby declared to be sales to consumers or
users and taxable; and
   V.   Any taxable services and tangible personal property sold to persons who
are primarily engaged in selling their services, such as repair persons, are
hereby declared to be sales to consumers or users and taxable. (2000 Code §
7-208)
7-209: EXEMPTIONS; SALES SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX:
There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter the
gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the Oklahoma sales tax code
inclusive, but not exclusive of, and derived from the:
   A.   Sale of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline
excise tax or special fuels tax levied by state law has been paid;
   B.   Sale of motor vehicles or any optional equipment or accessories
attached to motor vehicles on which the Oklahoma motor vehicle excise tax
levied by state law has been paid; and
   C.   Sale of crude petroleum or natural or casing head gas and other
products subject to gross production tax under state law. This exemption shall
not apply when such products are sold to consumer or user for consumption or
use, except when used for injection into the earth for the purpose of promoting
or facilitating the production of oil or gas. This subsection shall not operate
to increase or repeal the gross production tax levied by the laws of this
state. (2000 Code §
7-209)
7-210: EXEMPTIONS; GOVERNMENTAL AND NONPROFIT ENTITIES:
There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   A.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to the United States
government or to the state of Oklahoma, any political subdivision of this state
or any agency of a political subdivision of the state; provided, all sales to
contractors in connection with the performance of any contract with the United
States government, state of Oklahoma or any of its political subdivisions shall
not be exempted from the tax levied by this chapter, except as hereinafter
provided;
   B.   Sales of property to agents appointed or contracted with by agencies or
instrumentalities of the United States government if ownership and possession
of such property transfers immediately to the United States government;
   C.   Sales made directly by county, district or state fair authorities of
this state, upon the premises of the fair authority, for the sole benefit of
the fair authority;
   D.   Sale of food in cafeterias or lunchrooms of elementary schools, high
schools, colleges or universities which are operated primarily for teachers and
pupils and are not operated primarily for the public or for profit;
   E.   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable or educational
societies or organizations by regular members thereof, provided, such societies
or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan or
system, and provided such societies or organizations do not operate for a
profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members thereof
to the exclusion of other members;
   F.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except sales made in the course of business for profit or savings, competing
with other persons engaged in the same or similar business;
   G.   The amount of proceeds received from the sale of admission tickets
which is separately stated on the ticket of admission for the repayment of
money borrowed by any accredited state supported college or university for the
purpose of constructing or enlarging any facility to be used for the staging of
an athletic event, a theatrical production, or any other form of entertainment,
edification or cultural cultivation to which entry is gained with a paid
admission ticket. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, athletic
fields, athletic stadiums, field houses, amphitheaters and theaters. To be
eligible for this sales tax exemption, the amount separately stated on the
admission ticket shall be a surcharge which is imposed, collected and used for
the sole purpose of servicing or aiding in the servicing of debt incurred by
the college or university to effect the capital improvements hereinbefore
described;
   H.   Sales of tangible personal property or services to the council
organizations or similar state supervisory organizations of the Boy Scouts Of
America, Girl Scouts Of U.S.A. and the Campfire Girls shall be exempt from
sales tax;
   I.   Sale of tangible personal property or services to any county,
municipality, public school district, the institutions of the Oklahoma system
of higher education and the Grand River Dam authority, or to any person with
whom any of the above named subdivisions or agencies of this state has duly
entered into a public contract pursuant to law, necessary for carrying out such
public contract or to any subcontractor to such a public contract. Any person
making purchases on behalf of such subdivision or agency of this state shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor that the purchases are made for and on behalf of such subdivision
or agency of this state and set out the name of such public subdivision or
agency. Any person who wrongfully or erroneously certifies that purchases are
for any of the above named subdivision or agencies of this state or who
otherwise violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount equal to double the amount of the
sales tax involved or incarcerated for not more than sixty (60) days or both;
   J.   Sales of tangible personal property or services to private institutions
of higher education and private elementary and secondary institutions of
education accredited by the state department of education or registered by the
state board of education for purposes of participating in federal programs or
accredited as defined by the Oklahoma state regents for higher education which
are exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code, including materials, supplies and equipment used in the
construction and improvement of buildings and other structures owned by the
institutions and operated for educational purposes. Any person, firm, agency or
entity making purchases on behalf of any institution, agency or subdivision in
this state, shall certify in writing, on the copy of the invoice of sales
ticket the nature of the purchases, and violation of this act shall be a
misdemeanor, as set forth in subsection I of this section;
   K.   Tuition and educational fees paid to private institutions of higher
education and private elementary and secondary institutions of education
accredited by the state department of education or registered by the state
board of education for purposes of participating in federal programs or
accredited as defined by the Oklahoma state regents for higher education which
are exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code; and
   L.   Sales of tangible personal property made by public or private school
for grade levels kindergarten through twelfth grade, a public school district,
public school board, public school student group or organization or public
school district personnel for purposes of raising funds for the benefit of such
school, school district, school board, student group or organization. For
purposes of this subsection, "public or private school" shall mean any public
or private institution of education accredited by the state department of
education or registered by the state board of education for purposes of
participating in federal programs. Sale of tangible personal property in this
subsection shall not include sale of admission tickets or concessions at
athletic events. (2000 Code §
7-210)
7-211: EXEMPTIONS; GENERAL:
There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   A.   Transportation of school pupils to and from elementary schools or high
schools in motor or other vehicles;
   B.   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not exceed
one dollar ($1.00), or local transportation of persons within the corporate
limits of a municipality, except by taxicab;
   C.   Carrier sales of newspapers and periodicals made directly to consumers.
Other sales of newspapers and periodicals where any individual transaction does
not exceed seventy five cents ($0.75). A carrier is a person who regularly
delivers newspapers or periodicals to subscribers on an assigned route;
   D.   Sales for resale to persons engaged in the business of reselling the
articles purchased, whether within or without the state; provided, that such
sales to residents of this state are made to persons to whom sales tax permits
have been issued as provided in this chapter. This exemption shall not apply to
the sales of articles made to persons holding permits when such persons
purchase items for their use and which they are not regularly engaged in the
business of reselling; neither shall this exemption apply to sales of tangible
personal property to peddlers, solicitors and other salespersons who do not
have an established place of business and a sales tax permit;
   E.   Sales of advertising space in newspapers and periodicals and billboard
advertising service, and any advertising through the electronic media,
including radio, television and cable television;
   F.   Eggs, feed, supplies, machinery and equipment purchased by persons
regularly engaged in the business of raising worms, fish, any insect or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic animal life and used for the purpose of
raising the same for marketing. This exemption shall only be granted and
extended to the purchaser when the items are to be used and in fact are used in
the raising of animal life as set out above. Each purchaser shall certify, in
writing, on the invoice or sales ticket retained by the vendor that he is
regularly engaged in the business of raising such animal life and that the
items purchased will be used only in such business. The vendor shall certify to
the Oklahoma tax commission that the price of the items has been reduced to
grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or
vendor shall be a misdemeanor;
   G.   Sales of medicine or drugs prescribed for the treatment of human beings
by a person licensed to prescribe the medicine or drugs. This exemption shall
not apply to proprietary or patent medicines as defined by 59 Oklahoma Statutes
section 353.1;
   H.   Transfers of title or possession of empty, partially filled, or filled
returnable oil drums to any person who is not regularly engaged in the business
of selling, reselling or otherwise transferring empty, partially filled, or
filled returnable oil drums;
   I.   Sales of food or food products for home consumption which are purchased
in whole or in part with coupons issued pursuant to the federal food stamp
program as authorized by sections 2011 through 2029 of title 7 of the United
States Code, as to that portion purchased with such coupons. The exemption
provided for such sales shall be inapplicable to such sales upon the effective
date of any federal law that removes the requirement of the exemption as a
condition for participation by the state of Oklahoma in the federal food stamp
program; and
   J.   Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting the city
from levying and collecting taxes on the sale of natural or artificial gas and
electricity, whether sold for residential or commercial purposes. Any sales tax
levied by the city on natural or artificial gas and electricity shall be in
effect regardless of ordinance or contractual provisions referring to
previously imposed state sales tax on such items. (2000 Code §
7-211)
7-212: EXEMPTIONS; AGRICULTURE:
There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   A.   Sales of agricultural products produced in this state by the producer
thereof directly to the consumer or user when such articles are sold at or from
a farm and not from some other place of business, as follows:
      1.   Farm, orchard or garden products;
      2.   Dairy products sold by a dairyman or farmer who owns all the cows
from which the dairy products offered for sale are produced;
      3.   Livestock sold by the producer at a special livestock sale; and
      4.   The provisions of this subsection shall not be construed as
exempting sales by florists, nurserymen or chicken hatcheries, or sales of
dairy products by any other business except as set out herein;
   B.   Livestock, including cattle, horses, mules or other domestic or draft
animals, sold by the producer by private treaty or at a special livestock sale;
   C.   Sale of baby chicks, turkey poults and starter pullets used in the
commercial production of chickens, turkeys and eggs; provided, that the
purchaser certifies, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to
be retained by the vendor that the pullets will be used primarily for egg
production;
   D.   Sale of salt, grains, tankage, oyster shells, mineral supplements,
limestone and other generally recognized animal feeds for the following
purposes and subject to the following limitations:
      1.   Feed which is fed to poultry and livestock, including breeding stock
and wool bearing stock, for the purpose of producing eggs, poultry, milk or
meat for human consumption;
      2.   Feed purchased in Oklahoma for the purpose of being fed to and which
is fed by the purchaser to horses, mules or other domestic or draft animals
used directly in the producing and marketing of agricultural products;
      3.   Any stock tonics, water purifying products, stock sprays,
disinfectants or other such agricultural supplies;
      4.   Poultry shall not be construed to include any fowl other than
domestic fowl kept and raised for the market or production of eggs;
      5.   Livestock shall not be construed to include any pet animals such as
dogs, cats, birds or such other furbearing animals; and
      6.   This exemption shall only be granted and extended where the
purchaser of feed that is to be used and in fact is used for a purpose that
would bring about an exemption hereunder executes an invoice or sales ticket in
duplicate on a form to be prescribed by the tax commission. The purchaser may
demand and receive a copy of the invoice or sales ticket and the vendor shall
retain a copy;
   E.   Sales of items to be and in fact used in the production of agricultural
products. Sale of the following items shall be subject to the following
limitations:
      1.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person regularly engaged,
for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor, that he is so engaged in farming or ranching and that the
material purchased will be used only in such business;
      2.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer to any person engaged in the
business of applying such materials on a contract or custom basis to land owned
or leased and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the
business of farming or ranching. Each such purchaser shall certify, in writing,
on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor that he
is engaged in the business of applying such materials to lands owned or leased
and operated by persons regularly engaged, for profit, in the business of
farming or ranching, and shall show in the certificate the name or names of
such owner or lessee and operator, the location of the lands on which the
materials are to be applied to each such land, and he shall further certify
that his contract price has been reduced so as to give the farmer or rancher
the full benefit of this exemption;
      3.   Sales of agricultural fertilizer, pharmaceuticals and biologicals to
persons engaged in the business of applying such materials on a contract or
custom basis shall not be considered to be sales to contractors under this
chapter, and the sales shall not be considered to be taxable sales within the
meaning of the Oklahoma sales tax code. As used in this section, "agricultural
fertilizer", "pharmaceuticals" and "biologicals" mean any substance sold and
used for soil enrichment or soil corrective purposes or for promoting the
growth and productivity of plants or animals;
      4.   Sales of agricultural seed or plants to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. This section shall
not be construed as exempting from sales tax seed which is packaged and sold
for use in noncommercial flower and vegetable gardens;
      5.   Sales of agricultural chemical pesticides to any person regularly
engaged, for profit, in the business of farming or ranching. For the purposes
of this act, agricultural chemical pesticides shall include any substance or
mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying, repelling or
mitigating any insect, snail, slug, rodent, bird, nematode, fungus, weed or any
other form of terrestrial or aquatic plant or animal life or virus, bacteria or
other microorganism, except viruses, bacterial or other microorganisms on or in
living man, or any substance or mixture of substances intended for use as a
plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant; and
      6.   This exemption shall only be granted and extended to the purchaser
where the items are to be used and in fact are used in the production of
agricultural products. Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of
the invoice or sales ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material
purchased will only be used in his farming occupation. The vendor shall certify
to the Oklahoma tax commission that the contract price of the items has been
reduced to grant the full benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the
purchaser or vendor shall be a misdemeanor and, upon violation and conviction
for a second offense, the Oklahoma tax commission shall revoke the vendor's
sales tax permit; and
   F.   Sale of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel, oil, lubricants
and other substances used for operation and maintenance of the farm machinery
to be used directly on a farm or ranch in the production, cultivation,
planting, sowing, harvesting, processing, spraying, preservation or irrigation
of any livestock, poultry, agricultural or dairy products produced from such
lands. Each purchaser of farm machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel must
certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales ticket to be retained
by the vendor, that he is engaged in farming or ranching and that the farm
machinery, repair parts thereto or fuel will be used only in farming or
ranching. The exemption provided for herein shall not apply to motor vehicles.
Each purchaser shall certify, in writing, on the copy of the invoice or sales
ticket to be retained by the vendor, that the material purchased will only be
used in his farming occupation. The vendor shall certify to the Oklahoma tax
commission that the price of the items has been reduced to grant the full
benefit of the exemption. Violation hereof by the purchaser or vendor shall be
a misdemeanor and, upon violation and conviction for a second offense, the
Oklahoma tax commission shall revoke the vendor's sales tax permit. (2000 Code
§
7-212)
7-213: EXEMPTIONS; MANUFACTURERS:
There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this chapter:
   A.   Goods, wares, merchandise and property purchased for the purpose of
being used or consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling or preparing for sale a finished article and such goods,
wares, merchandise or property become integral parts of the manufactured,
compounded, processed, assembled or prepared products or are consumed in the
process of manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling or preparing
products for resale. The term "manufacturing plants" shall mean those
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and
generally recognized as such;
   B.   Ethyl alcohol when sold and used for the purpose of blending same with
motor fuel on which motor fuel tax is levied by state law;
   C.   Sale of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing plants in Oklahoma, and machinery and equipment
purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing plants already
established in Oklahoma. This exemption shall not apply unless such machinery
and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of
manufacturing property subject to taxation under this chapter. The term
"manufacturing plants" shall mean those establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
   D.   Sales of containers when sold to a person regularly engaged in the
business of reselling empty or filled containers or when purchased for the
purpose of packaging raw products of farm, garden or orchard for resale to the
consumer or processor. This exemption shall not apply to the sale of any
containers used more than once and which are ordinarily known as returnable
containers, except returnable soft drink bottles. Each and every transfer of
title or possession of such returnable containers in this state to any person
who is not regularly engaged in the business of selling, reselling or otherwise
transferring empty or filled containers shall be taxable under this code. This
exemption shall not apply to the sale of labels or other materials delivered
along with items sold but which are not necessary or absolutely essential to
the sale of the sold merchandise;
   E.   Sale of tangible personal property manufactured in Oklahoma when sold
by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state; or
   F.   Machinery, equipment, fuels and chemicals incorporated into and
directly used or consumed in the process of treatment to substantially reduce
the volume or harmful properties of controlled industrial waste at treatment
facilities specifically permitted pursuant to the controlled industrial waste
disposal act and operated at the place of waste generation, or facilities
approved by the state department of health for the cleanup of a site of
contamination. The term "controlled industrial waste" may include low level
radioactive waste for the purpose of this subsection. (2000 Code §
7-213)
7-214: EXEMPTIONS; CORPORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS:
There are hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied in this chapter:
   A.   The transfer of tangible personal property, as follows:
      1.   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this subsection, the term "reorganization" means a
statutory merger or consolidation or the acquisition by a corporation of
substantially all of the properties of another corporation when the
consideration is solely all or a part of the voting stock of the acquiring
corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary corporation;
      2.   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of a
corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
      3.   To a corporation for the purpose of organization of such corporation
where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the
transfer in control of the corporation, and the stock or securities received by
each is substantially in proportion to his interest in the property prior to
the transfer;
      4.   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the
former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer,
members of such partnership and the interest in the partnership, received by
each, is substantially in proportion to his interest in the property prior to
the transfer; or
      5.   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of such partnership; and
   B.   Sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or other
person who, after such sale, owns a joint interest in such tangible personal
property where the state sales or use tax has previously been paid on such
tangible personal property. (2000 Code §
7-214)
7-215: TAX DUE WHEN; RETURNS; RECORDS:
The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under the Oklahoma sales
tax code. (2000 Code §
7-215)
7-216: PAYMENT OF TAX; BRACKETS:
   A.   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time
and in the form and manner provided for payment of state sales tax.
   B.   The bracket system for the collection of the city sales tax by the tax
collector shall be the same as is hereafter adopted by the agreement of the
city and the tax collector, in the collection of both the city sales tax and
the state sales tax. (2000 Code §
7-216)
7-217: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
The taxes, penalty and interest due under this chapter shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2000 Code
§
7-217)
7-218: VENDOR'S DUTY TO COLLECT TAX; PENALTIES:
   A.   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor. It shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this city to collect
from the consumer or user the full amount of the tax levied by this chapter, or
an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average equivalent
thereof.
   B.   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added, such tax shall
constitute a part of such price or charge, shall be a debt from the consumer or
user to vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner
as other debts.
   C.   A vendor, as defined hereunder, who wilfully or intentionally fails,
neglects or refuses to collect the full amount of the tax levied by this
chapter, or wilfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either directly or
indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax herein levied,
or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any statement which
infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the consumer or user
by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or in any manner
whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   D.   Any sum or sums collected or required to be collected in accordance
with this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust for the city. Any person,
firm, corporation, joint venture or association that wilfully or intentionally
fails, neglects or refuses to collect the sums required to be collected or paid
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
7-218)
7-219: RETURNS AND REMITTANCES; DISCOUNTS:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax collector at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances of tax collected hereunder, and shall be subject to
the same discount as may be allowed by the Oklahoma sales tax code for
collection of state sales taxes. (2000 Code §
7-219)
7-220: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY:
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this
chapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as therein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this chapter. The failure or refusal of
any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and remittances of tax in the
time and manner required by this chapter shall cause such tax to be delinquent.
In addition, if the delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the
taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this chapter.
(2000 Code §
7-220)
7-221: WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
The interest or penalty, or any portion thereof, accruing by reason of a
taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or as applied in administration
of the state sales tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220. To
accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this chapter. (2000 Code §
7-221)
7-222: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making the erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure, and
under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the state
sales tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227. To accomplish the
purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(2000 Code §
7-222)
7-223: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be subject to a fine and imprisonment as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
7-223)
7-224: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same the provisions of the state sales tax code, 68 Oklahoma
Statutes section 205, and each subsection thereof, are hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city
sales tax as if herein set forth in full. (2000 Code §
7-224)
7-225: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the city, by their approval of the sales tax ordinance, hereby
authorize the mayor and city council, by ordinance duly enacted, to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions in the method and manner of
administering and enforcing this chapter as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness. Neither the rate of the tax herein provided nor the
use to which the revenue is put shall be changed without approval of the
qualified electors of the city as provided by law. (2000 Code §
7-225)
7-226: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any or
all other taxing provisions of city ordinances. (2000 Code §
7-226)
CHAPTER 3
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE TAX
SECTION:
7-301: Inspection Fee And Service Charge
7-302: Fee In Lieu Of Certain Other Charges
7-301: INSPECTION FEE AND SERVICE CHARGE:
There is hereby levied an annual inspection fee and service charge upon each
and every person, firm and corporation operating a telephone exchange in the
city in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the gross revenues for each
current year for exchange telephone transmission service rendered wholly within
the limits of the city to compensate the city for the expenses incurred and
services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power, supervision,
police regulation and police control of the construction of lines and equipment
of the telephone company in the city. The inspection fee and charge shall be
due and payable to the city on or before May 1 of each year, commencing with
July 1 of each year, and shall be paid into and appropriated and expended from
the general revenue fund of the city. (2000 Code §
7-301)
7-302: FEE IN LIEU OF CERTAIN OTHER CHARGES:
During the continued substantial compliance with the terms of this chapter by
the owner of any telephone exchange, the charge levied hereby shall be and
continue to be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, license, privilege
and permit fees or taxes or assessments, except ad valorem taxes; provided,
however, that it is not intended hereby to extinguish or abrogate any existing
arrangement whereby the city is permitted to use underground conduit, duct
space or pole contacts of the company for the fire alarm or police call systems
of the city. (2000 Code §
7-302)
CHAPTER 4
UTILITIES TAX
SECTION:
7-401: Tax Levied
7-402: Tax To Be Quarterly
7-403: Failure To Pay Tax
7-404: Tax To Constitute A Prior Lien
7-405: Record Of Sales
7-401: TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax upon all persons, firms,
associations and corporations engaged in the business of furnishing power,
light, heat, gas, electricity, or water in the city, in an amount equal to two
percent (2%) of the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales in
accordance with 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 2601 et seq. This tax shall not
apply to any person, firm or corporation operating under a valid franchise from
the city pursuant to article 18, section 5(a) of the Oklahoma constitution, nor
shall it apply to those entities exempt from taxation under applicable state
law. The tax shall be in lieu of any other franchise, license, occupation or
excise tax, levied by the city. (2000 Code §
7-401)
7-402: TAX TO BE QUARTERLY:
The utility tax levied in section
7-401 of this chapter shall be paid quarterly, due on or before the tenth day
of the months of January, April, July and October of each year, as applicable,
and be placed in the general revenue fund of the city. (2000 Code §
7-402)
7-403: FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
Any person, firm or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax shall be
regarded as a trespasser, and may be ousted from the city. In addition thereto,
an action will be commenced and maintained against such person, firm or
corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting same,
including reasonable attorney fees. (2000 Code §
7-403)
7-404: TAX TO CONSTITUTE A PRIOR LIEN:
The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all of the assets
located within the city, of any such person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water. (2000 Code §
7-404)
7-405: RECORD OF SALES:
It is the duty of any person, firm, association or corporation subject to the
tax levied hereunder to keep and maintain records as to the amount of gross
receipts of sales of power, light, heat, gas, electricity or water within the
city, and such records shall be subject to review and audit by the city upon
reasonable request. In addition, a summary of such sales for the preceding
calendar quarter, including the number of customers served, the number of
customers exempt from taxation under applicable Oklahoma sales tax laws, the
number of units of gas, electricity or water (cubic feet, kilowatt hours or
gallons, respectively) sold to exempt and nonexempt customers, the gross
receipts from sales to exempt and nonexempt customers, and the amount of sales
tax charged and collected with respect to such sales, shall be provided to the
city at the time of payment of the tax levied in this chapter. (2000 Code §
7-405)
CHAPTER 5
USE TAX
SECTION:
7-501: Citation And Codification
7-502: Definitions
7-503: Excise Tax On Storage, Use Or Other Consumption Of Intangible, Personal
Property Levied
7-504: Purpose Of Revenues
7-505: Exemptions
7-506: Time When Due; Returns; Payment
7-507: Tax Constitutes Debt
7-508: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor
7-509: Collection Of Tax By Retailer Or Vendor Not Maintaining A Place Of
Business Within State Or Both Within And Without State; Permits
7-510: Revoking Permits
7-511: Remunerative Deductions Allowed Vendors Or Retailers Of Other States
7-512: Interest And Penalties; Delinquency
7-513: Waiver Of Interest And Penalties
7-514: Erroneous Payments; Claim For Refund
7-515: Fraudulent Returns
7-516: Records Confidential
7-517: Classification Of Taxpayers
7-518: Subsisting State Permits
7-519: Provisions Cumulative
7-501: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF STROUD USE TAX.
Ord. 170, 6-26-1997, levied the first $0.03 use tax.
Ord. 173, 1-22-1998, levied an additional $0.01 use tax.
(2000 Code §
7-501)
7-502: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma use tax
code, 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1401, are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter. In addition thereto, the following words and terms
shall be defined as follows:
TAX COLLECTOR: The department of the city government or the official agency of
the state, duly designated according to law or contract authorized by law, to
administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
TRANSACTION: Sale. (2000 Code §
7-502)
7-503: EXCISE TAX ON STORAGE, USE OR OTHER CONSUMPTION OF INTANGIBLE, PERSONAL
PROPERTY LEVIED:
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing, using
or otherwise consuming within the city tangible, personal property purchased or
brought into this city, an excise tax on the storage, use or other consuming
within the city of such property at the rate of three percent (3%) of the
purchase price of such property. Such tax shall be paid by every person
storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the city, tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into the city. The additional tax levied
hereunder shall be paid at the time of importation or storage of the property
within the city and shall be assessed to only property purchased outside
Oklahoma; provided, that the tax levied herein shall not be levied against
tangible, personal property intended solely for use outside the city, but which
is stored in the city pending shipment outside the city or which is temporarily
retained in the city for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the
tax authorized herein, may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales
tax previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount
deducted shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes
imposed by the city had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(2000 Code §
7-503)
7-504: PURPOSE OF REVENUES:
It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to provide revenues for
the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city, and any
and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the governing body of the
city for any purpose for which funds may be lawfully expended as authorized.
(2000 Code §
7-504)
7-505: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply:
   A.   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the city by a nonresident individual visiting in this city for his
or her personal use or enjoyment while within the city;
   B.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   C.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma use tax
code and the city use tax, has been paid by the person using such tangible,
personal property in the city, whether such tax was levied under the laws of
Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of the United States. If any
article of tangible, personal property has already been subjected to a tax by
Oklahoma or any other state or municipality in respect to its sale or use, in
an amount less than the tax imposed by both the Oklahoma use tax code and city
use tax, the provision of this chapter shall also apply to it by a rate
measured by the difference only between the rate provided by both the Oklahoma
use tax code and the city use tax, and the rate by which the previous tax upon
the sale or use was computed; provided, that no credit shall be given for taxes
paid in another state or municipality, if that state or municipality does not
grant like credit for taxes paid in Oklahoma and the city;
   D.   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the city, and
machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons to the operation of
manufacturing plants already established in the city; provided, this exemption
shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated into, and
is directly used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to taxation
under the sales tax code of the city. The term "manufacturing plants" means
those establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing or processing
operations, and generally recognized as such;
   E.   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the sales tax code of the city;
   F.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the city by an individual with intent to become a resident of this
city where such personal property is for such individual's personal use or
enjoyment;
   G.   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads; or
   H.   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into
this city for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold. (2000
Code §
7-505)
7-506: TIME WHEN DUE; RETURNS; PAYMENT:
The tax levied by this chapter is due and payable at the time and in the manner
and form prescribed for payment of the state use tax under the use tax code of
the state of Oklahoma. (2000 Code §
7-506)
7-507: TAX CONSTITUTES DEBT:
Such taxes, penalty and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute a
prior, superior and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors, and may be collected by suit as any other debt. (2000 Code §
7-507)
7-508: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR:
Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and without
the state, and making sales of tangible, personal property from a place of
business outside this state for use in this city shall at the time of making
such sales collect the use tax levied by this chapter from the purchaser and
give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by
the tax commission, if the tax commission shall, by regulation, require such
receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the tax commission the name
and address of all his agents operating in this city and location of any and
all distribution or sales houses or offices or other places of business in the
city. (2000 Code §
7-508)
7-509: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER OR VENDOR NOT MAINTAINING A PLACE OF
BUSINESS WITHIN STATE OR BOTH WITHIN AND WITHOUT STATE; PERMITS:
The tax commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintain a
place of business within this state but who makes sales of tangible, personal
property for use in this city and by the out of state place of business of any
retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and without this
state and making sales of tangible, personal property such out of state place
of business for use in this city. Such retailer or vendor may be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such taxes by the tax commission in such
manner and subject to such regulations and agreements as it shall prescribe.
When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer or vendor to collect
the tax upon all tangible, personal property sold to his knowledge for use
within this city. Such authority and permit may be canceled when at any time
the tax commission considers that such tax can more effectively be collected
from the person using such property in this city; provided, however, that in
all instances where such sales are made or completed by delivery to the
purchaser within this city by the retailer or vendor in such retailer's or
vendor's vehicle, whether owned or leased (not by common carrier), such sales
or transactions shall continue to be subject to applicable city sales tax at
the point of delivery and the tax shall be collected and reported under
taxpayer's sales tax permit number accordingly. (2000 Code §
7-509)
7-510: REVOKING PERMITS:
Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or
the Oklahoma use tax code, or any orders, rules or regulations of the tax
commission, the tax commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit, if any,
issued to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a
corporation authorized to do business in this state may, after notice and
hearing above provided, cancel the corporation's license to do business in this
state and shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied
with the obligations under this chapter, the Oklahoma use tax code, or any
orders, rules or regulations of the tax commission. (2000 Code §
7-510)
7-511: REMUNERATIVE DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED VENDORS OR RETAILERS OF OTHER STATES:
Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made to
the tax commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as prescribed
for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma use tax code; and
remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by the code for the collection of state use taxes. (2000 Code §
7-511)
7-512: INTEREST AND PENALTIES; DELINQUENCY:
68 Oklahoma Statutes section 217 is hereby adopted and made a part of this
chapter, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as herein
specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of delinquency in
reporting and paying the tax levied by this chapter; provided, that the failure
or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the reports and
remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this chapter shall cause
such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a
period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor shall forfeit his claim to any
discount allowed under this chapter. (2000 Code §
7-512)
7-513: WAIVER OF INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer's or vendor's failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived
or remitted in the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance as
applied in administration of the state use tax provided in 68 Oklahoma Statutes
section 220, and to accomplish the purposes of this section the applicable
provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 220 are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter. (2000 Code §
7-513)
7-514: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; CLAIM FOR REFUND:
Refund of erroneous payment of the city use tax herein levied may be made to
any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state use tax as set forth in 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 227, and to
accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of 68
Oklahoma Statutes section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this chapter. (2000 Code §
7-514)
7-515: FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this chapter, the wilful failure
or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein required, or
the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of avoiding or
escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under this
chapter shall be an offense and, upon conviction thereof, the offending
taxpayer shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (2000 Code §
7-515)
7-516: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning the
administration of the city use tax is legislatively recognized and declared,
and to protect the same, the provisions of 68 Oklahoma Statutes section 205, of
the state use tax code, and each subsection thereof is hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city
use tax as is herein set forth in full. (2000 Code §
7-516)
7-517: CLASSIFICATION OF TAXPAYERS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma use tax code.
(2000 Code §
7-517)
7-518: SUBSISTING STATE PERMITS:
All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the tax commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma use tax code are for the purpose of this chapter
hereby ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional city permit for the same purpose. (2000 Code §
7-518)
7-519: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the city ordinances. (2000 Code §
7-519)
CHAPTER 6
LODGING TAX
SECTION:
7-601: Citation And Codification
7-602: Definitions
7-603: Tax Rate
7-604: Exemptions
7-605: Tax To Be Separately Designated On Bills
7-606: Operator's Duties
7-607: Bond Required; City Collection
7-608: Assessment And Determination Of Tax
7-609: Refunds
7-610: Notices
7-611: Remedies Exclusive
7-612: Agreement Of Administration
7-613: General Powers Of The City Manager
7-614: Certificates Of Registration
7-615: Purpose
7-616: Records Confidential
7-617: Criminal Penalties
7-618: Civil Remedies
7-619: Amendments
7-620: Provisions Cumulative
7-621: Severability
7-622: Effective Date And No Termination Date
7-601: CITATION AND CODIFICATION:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the CITY OF STROUD LODGING TAX
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-602: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CITY: Shall mean the City of Stroud, Oklahoma.
HOTEL: Shall mean any building or buildings, structures, trailer, or other
facility in which the public may, for consideration, obtain sleeping
accommodations, and in which rooms are used for the accommodation of such
occupant whether such rooms are in one or several structures. The term shall
include hotels, apartment hotels, motels, tourist courts, lodging houses, inns,
rooming houses, and all other facilities where rooms or sleeping facilities or
space are furnished for consideration. The term shall not include hospitals,
mental health care facilities, assisted living centers or nursing homes.
OCCUPANCY: Shall mean the use or possession, or the right to the use or
possession of any room or rooms in a hotel.
OCCUPANT: Shall mean the person, who for a consideration, uses, possesses, or
has the right to the use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel under
any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other
agreement.
OPERATOR: Shall mean any person operating a hotel within the City, including,
but not limited to, the owner, proprietor, manager, lessee, sublessee,
mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such
hotel.
PERSON: Shall mean any individual, corporation, company, partnership, voluntary
association, firm, club, society, organization or any other entity of whatever
kind or nature.
RENT: Shall mean the consideration received for occupancy valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash credits,
and property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which
credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever.
RETURN: Shall mean any report filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
ROOM: Shall mean any room or suite of rooms of any kind in any part or portion
of a hotel which is available for or let out for use or possessed for sleeping
facilities.
TAX: Shall mean the tax levied pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-603: TAX RATE:
There is hereby levied an Excise Tax of four percent (4%) (in addition to any
and all other Excise Taxes now in force) upon the gross proceeds or gross
receipts derived from all rent for every occupancy of a room or rooms in a
hotel in this City. Rooms provided free of charge, through barter, trade or any
other arrangement or agreement of any kind or nature, are also subject to such
tax at the sales value of the room so provided (with "sales value" to mean the
price at which the room would be rented to the operator's best customer in the
ordinary course of business). (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-604: EXEMPTIONS:
The exemptions from Excise Tax enumerated in title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, as
amended, section 1350 et seq. (the "Oklahoma Sales Tax Code") are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any conflicts in
connection with the permitted exemptions should arise under this chapter and
the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code shall prevail. (Ord.
322, 12-8-2016)
7-605: TAX TO BE SEPARATELY DESIGNATED ON BILLS:
The operator shall separately designate, charge and show the tax on all bills,
statements, receipts or any other evidence of charge or payment of rent for
occupancy issued or delivered by the operator. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-606: OPERATOR'S DUTIES:
   A.   Operator Responsible For Collections: The operator shall be responsible
for the collection of the tax from the occupant and shall be liable to the City
for the tax which shall be held in trust by the operator until paid to the City
or the Oklahoma Tax Commission pursuant to an agreement to collect Municipal
Lodging Taxes as set forth in title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, section
2701 et seq., of the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code. The operator shall join the City
as a party to any action brought by the operator to enforce collection of the
tax.
   B.   Records To Be Kept: Every operator shall keep records of every
occupancy and of all rent paid, charged, or due thereon and of the tax payable
thereon in such form as the City Manager or Oklahoma Tax Commission may by
regulation require. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination at any time upon demand by the City Manager, or a duly authorized
agent or employee of the City or the Oklahoma Tax Commission, and shall be
preserved for a period of three (3) years.
   C.   Returns:
      1.   In the event of collection of the tax levied pursuant to this
chapter by the Oklahoma Tax Commission, each operator shall file with the City
Manager a copy of their completed Oklahoma State Sales Tax Form within twenty
(20) days after the end of each month following the effective date of this
chapter.
      2.   In the event of collection of the tax levied pursuant to this
chapter by the City, every operator shall file with the City Manager a return
as prescribed by the City and shall contain such information as may be deemed
necessary and proper for the administration of this chapter, of any occupancy
and of rents, and of the taxes payable thereon for the period ending on the
last day of each month following the effective date of this chapter. Such
return shall be filed within the first twenty (20) days after the end of each
such month. The City Manager may require amended returns to be filed within ten
(10) days after notice and to contain the information specified in the notice.
   D.   Payment Of Tax: The payment of the tax levied pursuant to this chapter
shall be due prior to the twentieth (20th) day following the month during which
the charge for the occupancy of a hotel is incurred by the occupant, or at such
times as returns may be submitted to the Oklahoma Tax Commission in accordance
with the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code. At the time of filing a return of occupancy
and of rents, each operator shall pay to the City Treasurer or the Oklahoma Tax
Commission (in the manner and form prescribed for payment of the Municipal
Lodging Tax under the laws of the State of Oklahoma) the taxes imposed by this
chapter upon the rents included in such return. All taxes not paid with a
timely return shall be delinquent. All the taxes for the period for which a
return is required to be filed shall be due from the operator and payable to
the City Treasurer or Oklahoma Tax Commission on or before the date fixed for
the filing of the return for such period without regard to whether a return is
filed or whether the return which is filed correctly shows the amount of rents
and the taxes due thereon.
   E.   Deduction For Record Keeping: For so long as the operator maintains
compliance with the collection and remittance of the tax due hereunder, the
operator shall be allowed a deduction in accordance with the provisions of
title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, section 1367.1, as compensation for
the keeping and maintaining of Sales Tax records, filing reports and remitting
the tax when due.
   F.   Delinquent Taxes: All taxes not paid within twenty (20) calendar days
following the last day of the period for the collection of the tax levied by
this chapter shall be delinquent.
   G.   Interest And Penalties On Unpaid Taxes: If any tax levied by this
chapter becomes delinquent, the person responsible and liable for remittance of
such tax shall pay penalties on such unpaid tax at the rates and charges as
established in title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, as amended, section 217. (Ord. 322,
12-8-2016)
7-607: BOND REQUIRED; CITY COLLECTION:
In the event of initial collection of the tax levied hereunder shall be
collected by the City, or after such termination of an Agreement of
Administration authorized in section
7-612 of this chapter, where the City Manager believes that any operator is
about to cease business, leave the State, or remove or dissipate assets, or for
any other similar reason the City Manager deems it necessary in order to
protect revenues under this chapter may require such operator to file with the
City a bond issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in the
State in such amount as the City Manager may fix to secure the payment of any
tax or penalties and interest due, or which may become due from such operator.
In the event that the City Manager determines that an operator is to file such
bond, the City Manager shall give notice to such operator specifying the amount
of security required. The operator shall file such security as a performance
bond or irrevocable letter of credit within five (5) days after the filing of
such notice unless within such five (5) days the operator shall request in
writing a hearing before the City Council, at which time the necessary
propriety and amount of the bond shall be determined by the City Council. Such
determination shall be final and shall be complied with within fifteen (15)
days thereafter. In lieu of such bond, a cash or securities escrow, in an
amount and under terms approved by the City Manager, may be deposited with the
City Manager, who may at any time after five (5) days notice to the depositor,
apply them to any tax and/or any penalties due and for that purpose the
securities may be sold at private or public sale. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-608: ASSESSMENT AND DETERMINATION OF TAX:
   A.   If a return required by this chapter is not filed, or if a return when
filed is incorrect or insufficient, the amount of tax due shall be assessed by
the City Manager or the Oklahoma Tax Commission from such information as may be
obtainable and, if necessary, the tax may be estimated on the basis of external
indices, such as number of rooms, location, scale of rents, comparable rents,
types of accommodations and services, number of employees, or other factors.
Written notice of such assessments shall be given to the person liable for the
collection and payment of the tax. Such assessment shall finally and
irrevocably fix and determine the tax:
      1.   Unless the person against whom it is assessed shall apply in writing
to the City Council for a hearing within sixty (60) days after the City gives
notice of such assessment; or
      2.   Unless the City Manager decides to reassess the same.
   B.   After such hearing, the City Council shall give written notice of its
determination within thirty (30) days to the person against whom the tax is
assessed and such determination shall be final. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-609: REFUNDS:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   Oklahoma Tax Commission Collection Of Tax: If collection of the tax
levied pursuant to this chapter is delegated to the Oklahoma Tax Commission
pursuant to an agreement for the collection of Municipally imposed Lodging Tax,
the Oklahoma Tax Commission shall be responsible for making refunds to
taxpayers previously collected by the Oklahoma Tax Commission on the City's
behalf in accordance with the guidelines, procedures and regulations previously
adopted by the Oklahoma Tax Commission.
      2.   City Collection Of Tax: The City Manager shall direct the refund or
credit of any tax erroneously, illegally or unconstitutionally collected if
written application to the City Manager for such refund is made within two (2)
years from the date of payment thereof. For like causes, and in the same
period, a refund may be so made upon the initiative of the City Manager,
subject to existing limits on the authority of the City Manager as to amount.
The City Manager, in lieu of any refund required to be made, may allow credit
thereof on payments due from the applicant. Whenever a refund is made, the
reasons therefor shall be stated in writing. Such application may be made by
the person who has collected and paid such tax to the City Treasurer; however,
no refund of money shall be made to the operator until the operator has repaid
to the occupant the amount for which the application for refund is made.
         a.   Determination And Hearing: Upon application for a refund the City
Manager may receive evidence with respect thereto, and make such investigation
as is deemed necessary. After making a determination as to the refund, the City
Manager shall give written notice thereof to the applicant. Such determination
shall be final unless the applicant, within thirty (30) days after such notice,
shall apply in writing to the City Council for a hearing. After such hearing
the City Council shall give written notice of its decision to the applicant.
(Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-610: NOTICES:
Notices provided for under this chapter shall be deemed to have been given when
such notice has been delivered personally to the operator or deposited in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the operator.
In the absence of written evidence received by the City to the contrary, the
last known address shall be presumed to be the address shown on the certificate
of registration as required by section
7-614 of this chapter. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-611: REMEDIES EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this chapter shall be the exclusive remedies available
to any person for the review of tax liability imposed by this chapter. (Ord.
322, 12-8-2016)
7-612: AGREEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION:
Upon approval of the tax by a majority of the qualified voters of the City, the
City shall be authorized, but not obligated, to enter into an Agreement of
Administration (the "agreement") with the Oklahoma Tax Commission for
collection of the tax levied hereunder. Should the City elect to enter into
said agreement, operators shall follow the normal rules and procedures of
collection and administration of Excise Tax as prescribed by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission. In the event of a subsequent change in administration and
collection of the tax, operators shall be notified in accordance with the
notice provisions required under State law and the rules of the Oklahoma Tax
Commission of the date of such change in collection practices and any
requirements of operators enumerated under this chapter where the City shall
serve as the collector of the tax. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-613: GENERAL POWERS OF THE CITY MANAGER:
In addition to all other powers granted to the City Manager, the City Manager
is hereby authorized:
   A.   To make, adopt and amend rules and regulations appropriate to the
execution of this chapter and for the purposes hereof;
   B.   To extend for cause shown the time for filing any return for a period
not exceeding thirty (30) days; and for cause shown to waive, remit, or reduce
penalties or interest;
   C.   To delegate functions hereunder to authorized designees for the City;
   D.   To assess, reassess, determine, revise and readjust the amount of taxes
(but not the tax rate) imposed by this chapter;
   E.   To prescribe methods for determining the taxable and nontaxable rents;
   F.   To administer oaths and take affidavits concerning any matter or
proceeding under this chapter; and
   G.   To subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the production
of books, papers and documents to secure information pertinent to the
performance and the enforcement of this chapter and to examine them in relation
thereto. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-614: CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION:
Every operator shall file with the City Manager a certificate of registration
in a form prescribed by the City Manager within ten (10) days after the
effective date of this chapter, or in the case of operators commencing business
or opening new hotels after such effective date, within three (3) days after
such commencement or opening. The City Manager shall, within five (5) days
after such registration, issue, without charge, to each operator a certificate
of authority empowering such operator to collect the tax from the occupant and
duplicates thereof for each additional hotel. Each certificate or duplicate
shall state the hotel to which it is applicable. Such certificate of authority
shall be permanently displayed by the operator in such manner that it may be
seen and will come to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking
occupancy. Such certificates shall be nonassignable, nontransferable, and shall
be surrendered immediately to the City Manager upon the cessation of business
at the hotel named, or upon its sale or transfer. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-615: PURPOSE:
All taxes collected pursuant to provisions of this chapter shall be placed in
the General Funds of the City, shall be budgeted and appropriated annually by
the City, and shall be expended exclusively for the following purposes: a) one-
quarter (1/4) of the revenues generated shall be used to support the Stroud
Fire Department, b) one-quarter (1/4) of the revenues generated shall be used
to support the Stroud Police Department; and c) one-half (1/2) of the revenues
generated shall be used to support tourism and recreation initiatives of the
City (collectively, the "authorized purpose"), for the use and benefit of the
City and any public trust having the City as beneficiary thereof and/or for the
payment of debt service in connection with obligations heretofore issued or to
be issued to finance or refinance expenditures and related costs for such
authorized purpose. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-616: RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL:
The confidential and privileged nature of the records file concerning the
administration of the Hotel Tax is legislatively recognized and declared and,
in order to protect the same, the provisions of title 68, Oklahoma Statutes, as
amended, section 205 of the State Sales Tax Code, and each subsection thereof
and all amendments thereto, as hereby adopted by reference and made fully
effective and applicable to the administration of this chapter as if here set
forth. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-617: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
   A.   The willful intent or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and
remittances therein required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report
for the purpose of avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof
rightfully due under this chapter, shall constitute a violation of this City
Code and shall be subject to the general penalty set forth in section
1-108 of this City Code.
   B.   The failure by an operator to file a security bond as required, to
register or to display the certificate of registration, or to separately state
the tax on the bill or to collect such tax from the occupant, shall constitute
a violation of this City Code and shall be subject to the general penalty set
forth in section
1-108 of this City Code. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-618: CIVIL REMEDIES:
   A.   Whenever any operator, occupant or other person shall fail to collect
and/or pay over any tax, or to owe any tax, penalty or interest imposed by this
chapter as herein provided, the Mayor may authorize the Director of Finance to
file notice of liens on behalf of the City against the real estate upon which
the hotel is located and/or against all franchises, property and rights to
property, whether real or personal, then belonging to or thereafter acquired by
the person owing the tax pursuant to title 68, Oklahoma Statutes as amended,
sections 2701 and 2704.
   B.   The liens shall, upon proper filing, attach to the real estate and/or
personal property then owned or thereafter acquired by the debtor, whether such
property is used by the debtor in the operation of business or is under the
authority of an assignee, trustee, or receiver for the benefit of creditors,
from the date such taxes are due and payable as allowed by title 68, Oklahoma
Statutes, as amended, section 2704.
   C.   The City Manager shall notify the person owing the tax by personal
service or by certified mail that the City will file such liens if any
delinquent taxes, interest and/or penalties are not paid within fifteen (15)
days of receiving such notice.
   D.   The City Manager may also authorize the City Attorney to institute an
action in personam and in rem to enforce payment and collect any delinquent
taxes, penalties and/or interest. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-619: AMENDMENTS:
The people of the City, by their approval of this chapter, hereby authorize the
City by ordinance duly enacted to make such administrative and technical
changes or additions in the method and manner of administration and enforcing
this chapter as may be necessary or proper for efficiency and fairness or in
order to make the same consistent with the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code, except that
the rate of the tax and the purpose of the tax herein provided for shall not be
changed without approval of the qualified electors of the City as provided by
law. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-620: PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE:
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of City ordinances. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-621: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are severable, and if any part or provision
hereof shall be adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
adjudication shall not affect or impair any of the remaining parts or
provisions hereof. (Ord. 322, 12-8-2016)
7-622: EFFECTIVE DATE AND NO TERMINATION DATE:
The provisions of this chapter and the collection of the Excise Tax referenced
herein shall become effective on and after July 1, 2017, subject to approval by
a majority of the qualified electors of the City voting on the same in the
manner prescribed by law. The provisions of this chapter and the collection of
the Excise Tax referenced herein shall have no stated termination date. (Ord.
322, 12-8-2016)
TITLE 8
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES AND ABATEMENT IN GENERAL
SECTION:
8-101: Nuisances Generally
8-102: Abatement By City Authorized
8-103: Appointment Of Neighborhood Enhancement Director
8-104: Abatement In Accordance With Section Guidelines
8-105: Reserved
8-106: Abatement At Owner's Expense
8-107: Jurisdiction
8-101: NUISANCES GENERALLY:
   A.   No owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground shall allow or
permit any refuse matter, animal or vegetable, or water, or any putrid or
unwholesome substance to accumulate thereon, causing an offensive odor, or
suffer or permit any cellar, stable, henhouse, dog kennel, or any place where
any animals are kept, or any toilet or privy vault, to become in such a
condition as to emit offensive odors or be injurious or dangerous to the health
of the neighborhood.
   B.   Any condition described in subsection A of this section is declared to
be a nuisance and may be abated. (2000 Code §
8-101)
8-102: ABATEMENT BY CITY AUTHORIZED:
The council shall have power to abate any nuisance described in this chapter by
causing any lot or piece of ground to be filled up or drained, and any animal
or vegetable refuse matter, or any putrid or unwholesome substances to be
removed, and any cellar, stable, henhouse, dog kennel or any place where
animals are kept, or any toilet or privy vault, to be thoroughly cleaned and
put in good sanitary condition. (2000 Code §
8-102)
8-103: APPOINTMENT OF NEIGHBORHOOD ENHANCEMENT DIRECTOR:
In order to assist in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, the
city manager is authorized to appoint a director of neighborhood enhancement to
assist him in the enforcement of this chapter, and such person, when appointed,
shall have all of the powers necessary to enforce this chapter. (2000 Code §
8-103)
8-104: ABATEMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION GUIDELINES:
Any nuisance described in this chapter shall be abated in accordance with the
guidelines set forth within each section of this chapter. (Ord. 268, 4-12-2012)
8-105: RESERVED:
(Ord. 268, 4-12-2012)
8-106: ABATEMENT AT OWNER'S EXPENSE:
   A.   If the owner, occupant or person in control of any lot or piece of
ground shall fail, refuse or neglect, after the service of notice as provided
in this chapter, to comply within the time specified, the city shall then
proceed at once to abate the nuisance. (2000 Code §
8-106; amd. Ord. 268, 4-12-2012)
   B.   An accurate account of the cost or proportionate cost of the abatement
shall be kept with reference to each lot or piece of land, and certified to the
council, and the council shall by ordinance, motion or resolution, levy and
assess the cost, or proportionate cost, including the cost of publication and
other fees and cost necessarily incident thereto, against each lot or piece of
ground chargeable therewith, as a special assessment, and the city clerk shall
certify the assessment to the county clerk for collection as other special
taxes are collected. (2000 Code §
8-106)
8-107: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdiction of the health department is extended so that the provisions of
this chapter shall be effective outside of and within one-half (1/2) mile of
the city limits, in all matters affecting the health of inhabitants. (2000 Code
§
8-107)
CHAPTER 2
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-201: Definitions
8-202: Nuisance Declared, Prohibited
8-203: Notice To Remove
8-204: Responsibility For Removal
8-205: Hearing
8-206: Removal From Property; Notice
8-207: Appraisal
8-208: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicles
8-209: Collection Of City Costs Of Removal
8-210: Penalty
8-201: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle, as defined in this section, which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded.
JUNK WATERCRAFT: Any device intended for water transportation, and any
applicable trailer or motor/engine, which is wrecked, dismantled, abandoned,
discarded or is unable to operate, or without current state of Oklahoma tag,
for the purpose it was manufactured.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel along
the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts and golf
carts.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any real property which is not public property.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to the public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government, or any political subdivision
thereof, exercises control and dominion. (2000 Code §
8-201; amd. Ord. 267, 4-12-2012)
8-202: NUISANCE DECLARED, PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to park, store, leave or
permit the parking, storing or leaving of any motor vehicle of any kind which
is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or
partially dismantled condition, whether attended or not, upon any public or
private property within the city for a period of time in excess of seventy two
(72) hours. The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
rusted, junked or partially dismantled vehicle, or parts thereof, on private or
public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as
such in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not apply to any
vehicle enclosed within a building on private property, and properly operated
in the appropriate zone, pursuant to the zoning ordinance, or to any motor
vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or designed for operation on
drag strips or raceways, or any vehicle retained by the owner for antique
collection purposes in a storage place maintained in a lawful place and manner.
(2000 Code §
8-202)
8-203: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
   A.   Whenever it comes to the attention of the city manager or his designee
that any "nuisance", as defined by this chapter, exists in the city, a notice
in writing shall be served upon the occupant of the land where the nuisance
exists, or in case there is no such occupant, then upon the owner of the
property or his agent, notifying them of the existence of the nuisance and
requesting its removal in the time specified in this chapter.
   B.   The city manager or his designee shall give notice of removal to the
owner or occupant of the private property where a "nuisance", as defined by
this chapter, is located, at least ten (10) days before the time of compliance.
It shall constitute sufficient notice when a copy of same is posted in a
conspicuous place upon the private property upon which the vehicle is located
and duplicate copies are sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the owner or occupant of the private property at his last known address.
   C.   The notice shall contain the request for removal within the time
specified in this chapter, and the notice shall advise that, upon failure to
comply with the notice to remove, the city shall prosecute a criminal complaint
for failure to abate the nuisance and/or shall undertake such removal with the
cost to be levied against the owner or occupant of the property. (2000 Code §
8-203)
8-204: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL:
Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the owner of the abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle and the owner or occupant of the
private property on which the same is located, either or all of them, shall be
responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the
city or its designee, the owner or occupant of the private property where same
is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred. (2000 Code §
8-204)
8-205: HEARING:
   A.   Persons to whom the notices are directed pursuant to this chapter, or
their duly authorized agent, may file a written request for hearing before an
abandoned vehicle commission within the ten (10) day period of compliance for
the purpose of defending the charges by the city.
   B.   The abandoned vehicle commission shall be comprised of three (3)
members: the city manager or his designee, the chief of police or his designee,
and the city attorney or his designee.
   C.   The hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after the filing of
the request and the person to whom the notices are directed shall be advised of
the time and place of the hearing. At any such hearing, the city and the person
to whom the notices have been directed may introduce such witnesses and
evidence as either party deems necessary. (2000 Code §
8-205)
8-206: REMOVAL FROM PROPERTY; NOTICE:
   A.   If the violation described in the notice served pursuant to this
chapter has not been remedied within the ten (10) day period of compliance, or
in the event that a notice requesting a hearing is timely filed, a hearing had,
and the existence of the violation is affirmed by the abandoned vehicle
commission, the city manager or his designee shall continue to prosecute
criminal charges on a daily basis for failure to abate the nuisance and/or
shall have the right to take possession of the junked motor vehicle and remove
it from the premises. It is unlawful for any person to interfere, hinder or to
refuse to allow such person to enter upon private property for the purpose of
removing a vehicle under this chapter.
   B.   Within forty eight (48) hours of the removal of a vehicle pursuant to
this chapter, the city manager or his designee shall give notice to the
registered owner of the vehicle, if known, and also to the owner or occupant of
the private property from which the vehicle was removed, that the vehicle has
been impounded and stored for violation of this chapter. The notice shall give
the location where the vehicle is stored and the proper procedure for redeeming
the vehicle, including cost of redemption. (2000 Code §
8-206)
8-207: APPRAISAL:
Upon removing a vehicle under the provisions of this chapter, the city shall,
after ten (10) days, cause it to be appraised. If the vehicle is appraised at
seventy five dollars ($75.00) or less, the city manager or his designee shall
execute an affidavit so attesting and describing the vehicle, including the
license plates, if any, and stating the location and appraised value of the
vehicle. After complying with this section, the city may summarily dispose of
the vehicle and execute a certificate of sale. If the vehicle is appraised at
over seventy five dollars ($75.00), notice of public sale shall be given not
less than ten (10) days before the date of the proposed sale. (2000 Code §
8-207)
8-208: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
The owner of any vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter may redeem
such vehicle at any time after its removal, but prior to the sale or
destruction thereof, upon proof of ownership and payment to the city manager or
his designee of such sum as may be determined and fixed as the actual and
reasonable expense of removal, plus storage. (2000 Code §
8-208)
8-209: COLLECTION OF CITY COSTS OF REMOVAL:
   A.   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of property from which
abandoned vehicles have been removed by the city to pay the unrecovered expense
incurred by the city in such removal, the amount of the unrecovered cost may be
added to the municipal utility bills of the private property from which removed
and recovered in the same manner as such bills.
   B.   If the private property is not served by municipal utilities or if
connection efforts are not successful, the cost may be certified by the city
clerk to the county treasurer of the county in which the property is located,
who shall add the same to the ad valorem taxes assessed against the property
until paid, and such costs shall be collected in the same manner as ad valorem
taxes assessed against the property and when collected shall be paid to the
city. (2000 Code §
8-209)
8-210: PENALTY:
In addition to the procedures for removal of vehicles, any person who violates
any of the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of an
offense against the city. Each act in violation of any of the provisions hereof
shall constitute a separate offense and may be chargeable as such. Each day's
continued violation of any of the provisions hereof shall constitute a separate
offense and may be chargeable as such. (2000 Code §
8-210)
CHAPTER 3
RESTAURANTS AND FOOD
SECTION:
8-301: Regulations Adopted
8-302: Permits
8-301: REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The latest edition of the "Oklahoma State Department Of Health Rules And
Regulations Pertaining To Food Establishments" is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference in this code. At least one copy of the rules and
regulations shall be on file in the office of the city clerk. The rules and
regulations shall govern, except in case of conflict with the provisions of
this chapter, in which case the more restrictive terms shall prevail. (2000
Code §
8-301)
8-302: PERMITS:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a food service establishment in the
city who does not possess a valid permit as required by law. Such permit shall
be posted in a conspicuous place. Such permit shall not be transferable from
person to person or from one location to another. Only persons who comply with
the requirements of this chapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such
permit. (2000 Code §
8-302)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS AND NOXIOUS PLANTS
SECTION:
8-401: Definitions
8-402: Nuisance Declared
8-403: Removal Required
8-404: Notice And Order To Cut, Remove Or Destroy
8-405: Hearing
8-406: Appeals
8-407: Abatement By City
8-408: Collection Of City Costs
8-409: Penalty
8-410: Applicability
8-401: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
DIRECTOR: The director of neighborhood enhancement or his designee.
NOXIOUS PLANTS: Poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac, at any height or stage
of maturity.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
RANK WEEDS: A. All vegetation at any state of maturity which:
        1. Exceeds twelve inches (12") in height, except healthy trees, shrubs
or produce for human consumption, or grown in a tended and cultivated garden,
unless such trees and shrubbery, by their density or location, constitute a
detriment to the health, benefit and welfare of the public and community, or a
hazard to traffic or create a fire hazard to the property, or otherwise
interfere with the mowing of the weeds;
        2. Regardless of height, harbors, conceals or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
        3. Harbors rodents or vermin;
        4. Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
        5. Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
        6. Is dead or diseased.
   B.   The term "rank weed" does not include tended crops on land zoned for
agricultural use which are planted more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from
a parcel zoned for other than agricultural use.
THICKETS: Dense growths of wild shrubbery having stems or trunk of less than
one inch (1") in diameter, and briar patches. (2000 Code §
8-401)
8-402: NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   Rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants which are allowed to stand at
any season of the year upon any lot, tract or parcel of land, or along the
sidewalk, street or unpaved alley adjacent to such lot, tract or parcel of
land, are hereby declared to constitute a nuisance.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to land zoned or used for agricultural use
which is more than one hundred fifty feet (150') distant from any occupied
commercial or residential subdivision lot, tract or parcel of land. (2000 Code
§
8-402)
8-403: REMOVAL REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any owner or person otherwise in possession or control of
any lot, tract or parcel of land, except as hereinbefore provided, to allow
rank weeks, thickets or noxious plants to grow or stand upon such premises, or
along the sidewalk, street or unpaved alley adjacent to such premises. It is
the duty of such owner to cut, remove or destroy any and all such rank weeds,
thickets or noxious plants on such premises. (2000 Code §
8-403)
8-404: NOTICE AND ORDER TO CUT, REMOVE OR DESTROY:
   A.   Whenever the director shall determine that rank weeds, thickets or
noxious plants, or any combination thereof, are constituting a threat to the
public health, comfort, safety or welfare, the director shall give five (5)
days' notice to the owner of the property by mail at the address shown by the
current year's tax rolls in the county treasurer's office before the director
holds a hearing or takes action.
   B.   The notice shall order the property owner to cut or mow the vegetation
on the property, and the notice shall state that unless the work is performed
within five (5) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the
city and a notice of lien shall be filed with the county clerk against the
property for the costs due and owing the city.
   C.   At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the city shall
obtain a receipt of the mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However,
if the property owner cannot be located within five (5) days from the date of
mailing the same, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the
property or by publication, as provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 1- 102,
one time not less than five (5) days prior to any hearing or action by the
director. (Ord. 259, 5-12-2011)
8-405: HEARING:
   A.   At any time within five (5) days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this chapter, the owner may request, in writing to the
director, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the
determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The director shall
conduct such hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than five
(5) days after receipt of the owner's request for such hearing, and not later
than fifteen (15) days after such receipt.
   B.   At such hearing such owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony, or evidence and arguments, and to cross examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the director, after such
hearing, shall determine that rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants constitute
a nuisance detrimental to health or a fire or traffic hazard on such property,
and shall determine that the person or persons requesting such hearing are
owners of the property upon which such nuisance is located, he shall file, in
writing, his findings of fact and his order that such nuisance be abated within
five (5) days, and shall cause such findings and order to be served upon such
owner at the conclusion of the hearing. (Ord. 260, 5-12-2011)
8-406: APPEALS:
An appeal from a final order of the director made pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter may be had by any person aggrieved thereby by filing with the city
clerk, within ten (10) days from the date of the director's final order, a
written notice of appeal. The city clerk shall thereupon set the matter for a
hearing before the city council and shall notify the appellant by registered
mail of the time and date when the matter will be heard. Upon the filing of the
notice of appeal, the director shall forthwith transmit to the city clerk all
their records and orders pertaining thereto. The city council, after hearing
the matter in a summary manner, may sustain, reverse or modify the order of the
director. (2000 Code §
8-406)
8-407: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
   A.   In the event that:
      1.   No hearing is requested as provided for in this chapter; or
      2.   The director or city council, after such hearing, shall have ordered
such nuisance to be abated as provided herein; or
      3.   Such nuisance shall not have been abated within the respective
period specified;
then the director may cause such nuisance to be abated forthwith by cutting,
removing or destroying the same, in as many instances as may be necessary for
continual abatement of the nuisance, or may cause a complaint to be filed
against such owner in the municipal court for violation of the provisions of
this chapter, or both.
   B.   To effect abatement, the director may cause the nuisance to be abated
by employees for the city or, in the alternative, the director may prepare
appropriate specifications, advertise for bids, and award a contract for such
abatement to the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating such nuisance, in
each and every instance where it is abated, shall be borne by the property
owner and shall be assessed as hereinafter provided. (2000 Code §
8-407)
   C.   If the director causes property within the municipal limits to have its
rank weeds, thickets or noxious plants cut or mowed, any subsequent
accumulations of weeds, thickets or plants on the property occurring within a
six (6) month period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily
abated without further prior notice to the property owner. At the time of each
summary abatement, the director shall notify the property owner of the
abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner
may request a hearing. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in
section
8-405 of this chapter. (2000 Code §
8-407; amd. Ord. 260, 5-12-2011)
   D.   Immediately following the cleaning of the property, the city clerk
shall file a notice of lien with the county clerk describing the property and
the work performed by the municipality, and stating that the municipality
claims a lien on the property for the cleaning costs. (2000 Code §
8-407)
8-408: COLLECTION OF CITY COSTS:
   A.   When the owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located has
failed or refused to abate the nuisance, the director shall cause the nuisance
to be abated either by employees for the city or, in the alternative, by the
contractor who has submitted the lowest and best bid for such work. The actual
and necessary cost required to be expended by the director, together with such
administrative expense for mailing of notices, etc., the administrative
expenses not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), and the total of the
costs shall be certified to the office of the city clerk, who shall be
responsible for billing all of the costs to the property owner.
   B.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the county treasurer of the county in which the
property is located, and the same shall be levied on the property and collected
by the county treasurer in the same manner as ad valorem taxes against the
property, and when collected shall be paid to the city. Until fully paid, the
cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the property from the
date the cost is certified to the county treasurer. (2000 Code §
8-408)
8-409: PENALTY:
Any owner or person otherwise in possession or control who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty
of an offense against the city. Each day's continuous violation shall
constitute a separate offense and may be punishable as such. (2000 Code §
8-409)
8-410: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any property zoned and used
for agricultural purposes. (2000 Code §
8-410)
CHAPTER 5
TRASH
SECTION:
8-501: Definitions
8-502: Nuisance Declared
8-503: Removal Required
8-504: Notice And Order To Remove
8-505: Consent Or Hearing
8-506: Appeals
8-507: Abatement By City
8-508: Collection Of City Costs
8-509: Penalty
8-510: Applicability
8-501: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
DIRECTOR: The director of neighborhood enhancement or his designee.
OCCUPANT: The person in actual or constructive possession of real property.
OWNER: The owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of the county
treasurer.
TRASH: Any refuse, litter, ashes, debris, paper, combustible materials,
rubbish, offal or waste, or matter of any kind or form which is uncared for,
discharged or abandoned. (2000 Code §
8-501)
8-502: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Trash which accumulates or exists upon any lot, tract or parcel of land, or
along unpaved streets, unpaved alleys or public easements adjacent to such lot,
tract or parcel of land, are hereby declared to constitute a nuisance. (2000
Code §
8-502)
8-503: REMOVAL REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any owner or person otherwise in possession or control of
any lot, tract or parcel of land, except as hereinbefore provided, to allow
trash to accumulate or exist upon such premises, or along unpaved streets,
unpaved alleys or public easements adjacent to such premises. It is the duty of
such owner to remove any and all trash on such premises. (2000 Code §
8-503)
8-504: NOTICE AND ORDER TO REMOVE:
   A.   Whenever the director shall determine that the accumulation or
existence of trash constitutes a threat to the public health, comfort, safety
or welfare, the director shall give at least ten (10) days' notice to the owner
of the property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in
the county treasurer's office before the director holds a hearing or takes
action.
   B.   The notice shall order the property owner to clean the property of
trash, and the notice shall state that unless the work is performed within ten
(10) days of the date of the notice, the work shall be done by the city and a
notice of lien shall be filed with the county clerk against the property for
the costs due and owing the city.
   C.   At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner, the city shall
obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However,
if the property owner cannot be located within ten (10) days from the date of
mailing the same, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the
property or by publication, as provided by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section 102,
one time not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the
director.
   D.   If the director anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in
accordance with the provisions as herein provided, the notice, whether by mail
or publication, shall state:
      1.   That any accumulation of trash on the owner's property occurring
within six (6) months after the removal of trash on the property pursuant to
the notice may be summarily abated by the city;
      2.   That the costs of such abatement shall be assessed against the
owner; and
      3.   That a lien shall be imposed on the property to secure such payment,
all without further notice to the property owner.
   E.   If the director causes property within the municipal limits to be
cleaned of trash, any subsequent accumulations of trash on the property
occurring within a six (6) month period may be declared to be a nuisance and
may be summarily abated without further prior notice to the property owner. At
the time of each summary abatement, the director shall notify the property
owner of the abatement and the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the
property owner may request a hearing within ten (10) days after the date of
mailing the notice. The notice and hearing shall be as provided for in section
8-505 of this chapter. (2000 Code §
8-504)
8-505: CONSENT OR HEARING:
   A.   The owner of the property may give his written consent authorizing the
city to abate the nuisance pursuant to section
8-502 of this chapter. Such consent shall waive his right to a hearing under
the provisions of this section.
   B.   At any time within ten (10) days from the date of the notice and order
provided for in this chapter, the owner may request, in writing to the
director, a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of contesting the
determination that a nuisance exists upon his property. The director shall
conduct such hearing as soon as may be practicable but not earlier than five
(5) days after receipt of the owner's request for such hearing, and not later
than fifteen (15) days after such receipt.
   C.   At such hearing, the owner shall have the right to be represented by
counsel, to present testimony, or evidence and arguments, and to cross examine
witnesses. All testimony shall be taken under oath. If the director, after such
hearing, shall determine that trash constitutes a nuisance detrimental to
health or a fire or traffic hazard on such property, and shall determine that
the person or persons requesting such hearing are owners of the property upon
which such nuisance is located, he shall file in writing his findings of fact
and his order that such nuisance be abated within ten (10) days, and shall
cause such findings and order to be served upon such owner at the conclusion of
the hearing. (2000 Code §
8-505)
8-506: APPEALS:
An appeal from a final order of the director made pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter may be had by any person aggrieved thereby by filing with the city
clerk, within ten (10) days from the date of the director's final order, a
written notice of appeal. The city clerk shall thereupon set the matter for a
hearing before the city council and shall notify the appellant by registered
mail of the time and date when the matter will be heard. Upon the filing of the
notice of appeal, the director shall forthwith transmit to the city clerk all
their records and orders pertaining thereto. The city council, after hearing
the matter in a summary manner, may sustain, reverse or modify the order of the
director. (2000 Code §
8-506)
8-507: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
   A.   In the event that:
      1.   No hearing is requested as provided for in this chapter; or
      2.   The director or city council, after such hearing, shall have ordered
such nuisance to be abated as provided herein; or
      3.   Such nuisance shall not have been abated within the respective
period specified;
then the director may cause such nuisance to be abated forthwith by removing or
destroying the same, in as many instances as may be necessary for continual
abatement of the nuisance, or may cause a complaint to be filed against such
owner in the municipal court for violation of the provisions of this chapter,
or both.
   B.   To effect abatement, the director may cause the nuisance to be abated
by employees for the city or, in the alternative, the director may prepare
appropriate specifications, advertise for bids, and award a contract for such
abatement to the lowest and best bidder. The cost of abating such nuisance, in
each and every instance where it is abated, shall be borne by the property
owner and shall be assessed as hereinafter provided. (2000 Code §
8-507)
8-508: COLLECTION OF CITY COSTS:
   A.   When the owner of the property upon which the nuisance is located has
failed or refused to abate the nuisance, the director shall cause the nuisance
to be abated either by employees for the city or, in the alternative, by the
contractor who has submitted the lowest and best bid for such work. The actual
and necessary cost required to be expended by the director, together with such
administrative expense for mailing of notices, etc., the administrative
expenses not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), and the total of the
costs shall be certified to the office of the city clerk, who shall be
responsible for billing all of the costs to the property owner.
   B.   The city clerk shall forward by mail to the property owner at the
address specified in section
8-504 of this chapter a statement setting forth the total costs for removal of
trash and demanding payment. If payment is not made within thirty (30) days
from the date of the mailing of the statement, the city clerk shall forward a
certified statement of the amount of the cost to the county treasurer of the
county in which the property is located, and the same shall be levied on the
property and collected by the county treasurer in the same manner as ad valorem
taxes against the property, and when collected shall be paid to the city. Until
fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the cost is certified to the county treasurer. (2000
Code §
8-508)
8-509: PENALTY:
Any owner or occupant who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of an offense against the
city. Each day's continuous violation shall constitute a separate offense and
may be punishable as such. (2000 Code §
8-509)
8-510: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any property zoned and used
for agricultural purposes. (2000 Code §
8-510)
CHAPTER 6
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
8-601: Definitions
8-602: Condemnation, Boarding And Securing Of Dilapidated Buildings; Notice,
Removal, Lien, Payment
8-603: Clearing Up Of Premises From Which Buildings Have Been Removed
8-604: Penalty
8-601: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
BOARDING AND SECURING OR BOARDED AND SECURED: The closing, boarding or locking
of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the structure.
CLEANING OR CLEANED: The removal of trash or weeds from the premises.
DILAPIDATED BUILDING: The neglect of necessary repairs to a building or
allowing it to fall into a state of decay or allowing it to fall into partial
ruin to such an extent that the building is a hazard to the health or safety or
welfare of the general public.
DIRECTOR: The director of neighborhood enhancement or his designee.
UNSECURED BUILDING: A structure which through neglect or injury lacks necessary
repairs or otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent
that the structure is a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the general
public. (2000 Code §
8-601)
8-602: CONDEMNATION, BOARDING AND SECURING OF DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS; NOTICE,
REMOVAL, LIEN, PAYMENT:
The director may cause dilapidated buildings within the city limits to be torn
down and removed, or boarded or secured, in accordance with the following
procedure:
   A.   At least fifteen (15) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property before the director takes action or holds a hearing as provided
herein. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the property to be affected. In
addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by mail to the property owner at
the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the office of the county
treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any mortgage holder as shown
by the records in the office of the county clerk to the last known address of
the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to any property owner or
mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage
holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on
the property, or by publication, as defined by 11 Oklahoma Statutes section
1-102. Such notice may be published once not less than fifteen (15) days prior
to any hearing or action to be taken pursuant to this section;
   B.   A hearing shall be held by the director to determine whether the
property is dilapidated and has thereby become detrimental to the health,
benefit and welfare of the public and the community, or creates a fire hazard
to the danger of property, or needs to be boarded and secured;
   C.   If the director finds that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or a hazard, and that the property would be benefited by the removal
of such conditions, or by its boarding and securing, the director may cause the
dilapidated building to be torn down and removed, and boarded and secured, and
shall fix reasonable dates for the commencement and completion of the work. The
city clerk shall immediately file a notice of lien with the county clerk
describing the property, the findings of the director at the hearing, and
stating that the city claims a lien on the property for the destruction and
removal, boarding and securing costs and that such costs are the personal
obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing of the
notice;
   D.   The property owner shall have a right of appeal to the city council
from an order of the director. The appeal shall be filed in writing with the
city clerk within ten (10) days after the director's order is rendered;
   E.   If the work is not performed by the property owner within the dates
fixed by the director, the director shall direct the tearing down and removal,
or boarding and securing, be done by one of the following methods: (2000 Code §
8-602)
      1.   By the city; provided, that the actual cost of the labor,
maintenance and equipment does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00);
(Ord. 221, 10-11-2007)
      2.   On a private contract basis, in which case it shall be awarded to
the lowest and best bidder;
   F.   After the building has been torn down and removed, or boarded and
secured, the director shall determine the actual cost of the dismantling and
removal of dilapidated buildings, or the boarding and securing, and any other
expenses as may be necessary in conjunction therewith, including the cost of
notice and mailing. The city clerk shall forward a statement of such actual
cost attributable to the dismantling and removal or boarding and securing and a
demand for payment by mail to the property owner at the address specified in
this section. In addition, a copy of the statement shall be mailed to any
mortgage holder at the address specified in this section. At the time of
mailing of the statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the
city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt
shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee;
   G.   If payment is not made within six (6) months from the date of the
mailing of the statement, the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of
the amount of the cost to the county treasurer of the county in which the
property is located. The city shall have a lien on the property for such costs,
together with interest thereon, and the lien shall continue until the cost
shall be fully paid;
   H.   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the city shall
file a release of lien or part thereof;
   I.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any property zoned
and used for agricultural purposes; and
   J.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from otherwise abating a
dilapidated building as a nuisance or otherwise exercising its police power to
protect the public health, safety or welfare. (2000 Code §
8-602)
8-603: CLEARING UP OF PREMISES FROM WHICH BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN REMOVED:
In all cases in which:
   A.   A house or building has been removed before the taking effect of this
chapter; or
   B.   A house or building is torn down or demolished pursuant to order of the
state fire marshal or one of his assistants or the sheriff of the county or the
chief of the fire department as provided by state law or as provided in this
chapter;
and in which any of the following conditions exist:
   A.   The premises has not been cleaned up;
   B.   The premises is cleaned up, and all lumber, brick, concrete, cement,
plaster, nails, wire, and other material have not been removed;
   C.   The materials removed but the cellar space and excavations have not
been filled;
   D.   A cistern or well has not been filled or safely and securely closed and
all openings to sanitary sewer have not been plugged to meet the requirements
of the city plumbing inspector and securely closed; and
   E.   The lot or lots have not been leveled and left entirely free from trash
or the same be not immediately done;
then the owner or owners of the lot or lots and the person, firm or corporation
who tore down the house or building shall immediately comply with the
provisions of this chapter by having all of the things done. (2000 Code §
8-603)
8-604: PENALTY:
Any person who shall tear down or begin the tearing down of any house or
building within the city limits without having first procured permit therefor
as herein provided shall be guilty of an offense against the city and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
8-604)
CHAPTER 7
PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS
SECTION:
8-701: Prohibited On Permanent Basis; Exceptions
8-702: Definitions
8-701: PROHIBITED ON PERMANENT BASIS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The City of Stroud, Oklahoma shall not allow structures identified as
portable storage building or containers of any type of material at any
residential location on a permanent basis.
   B.   No metal shipping containers shall be allowed on any property within
the corporate City limits of Stroud, Oklahoma with the exception of industrial
and/or business applications and the temporary placement for moving purposes
only and then only for thirty (30) days maximum, according to the (IBC)
International Building Code 2009, section 107.1 through 107.4.
   C.   Metal shipping containers may be used in industrial and/or business
applications and must have the express written approval from the City of
Stroud, Oklahoma. Permitting application shall be obtained from the City of
Stroud, Oklahoma and approval granted by the city manager.
   D.   All current structures in place prior to January 11, 2018, shall not be
affected thereby if previously addressed by the Stroud City Council. (Ord. 299,
8-14-2014, eff. 8-14-2014; amd. Ord. 337, 1-11-2018)
8-702: DEFINITIONS:
METAL SHIPPING CONTAINER: A container with strength suitable to withstand
shipment, storage, and handling. For the purposes of this chapter, the tractor
trailer sea to shore metal containers, past railroad box cars, or anything
similar shall be defined as a metal shipping container. A shipping container is
an item of equipment defined for shipping transport purposes. The acceptable
structure and characteristics of a shipping container are that it must be
strong enough to be suited for repeated use. The second requirement in order to
be considered a shipping container is that it must be designed to facilitate
the carriage of goods. Thus, it is not only an item that could be used to
transport personal property, it may also be made of durable materials so that
it could be an appropriate storage device.
PORTABLE STORAGE BUILDING OR CONTAINER: A transportable storage structure that
is designed and used primarily for the storage of household goods, personal
items and any other materials for use on a limited basis for residential or
commercial purposes. Such structures are uniquely designed for their ease of
loading to and from a transport vehicle. (Ord. 299, 8-14-2014, eff. 8-14-2014;
amd. Ord. 337, 1-11-2018)
CHAPTER 8
TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS
SECTION:
8-801: Findings
8-802: Definitions
8-803: Prohibited Conduct
8-804: Required Signs
8-805: Penalties And Enforcement
8-806: Statutory Construction And Severability
8-801: FINDINGS:
The City Council of Stroud hereby finds and declares as follows:
   A.   21.1 percent of adults in Oklahoma smoke; and
   B.   Tobacco use is the leading preventable cause of death, killing more
than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) Oklahomans every year; and
   C.   Tobacco use can cause disease in nearly all organ systems, and is
responsible for eighty seven percent (87%) of lung cancer deaths, seventy nine
percent (79%) of all chronic obstructive pulmonary disease deaths, and thirty
two percent (32%) of coronary heart disease deaths; and
   D.   Studies show that separate smoking areas or rooms, air filters, and
ventilation systems are insufficient to protect nonsmokers from secondhand
smoke indoors; and
   E.   According to the United States Surgeon General, there is no risk-free
level of exposure to secondhand smoke; and
   F.   Nearly fifty thousand (50,000) nonsmokers die each year in the United
States as a result of exposure to secondhand smoke; and
   G.   Using vapor products or smokeless tobacco products is not safe; and
   H.   Research has found that aerosol from vapor products contains chemicals
known to cause cancer, birth defects, or other reproductive harm and vapor
products may involuntarily expose children, youth, pregnant women, and other
bystanders to aerosolized nicotine; and
   I.   Smokeless tobacco use increases people's risk of heart disease, stroke,
and cancer, specifically oral, esophageal, and pancreatic cancers, as well as
stillbirth and preterm delivery; and
   J.   Community policies that fail to prohibit the use of tobacco products
normalize tobacco use and make it more likely that people will use tobacco
products because they see others using tobacco; and
   K.   Tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke impose an enormous
economic burden upon the government, taxpayers, business owners, and
individuals through health care costs and lost productivity, as evidenced by
the $1.62 billion Oklahoma spends on smoking-related medical care and $2.1
billion in lost productivity; and
   L.   Laws restricting the use of tobacco products have demonstrated a high
return on investment; and
   M.   81.7 percent of Oklahomans agree that all workplaces in cities and
towns should have smoke free policies; and
   N.   Oklahoma State law prohibits smoking in most indoor workplaces; and
   O.   Oklahoma State law expressly permits municipalities to impose
additional regulations on smoking tobacco products on property owned or
operated by local governments; and
   P.   Oklahoma State law does not preempt local governments from regulating
the use of smokeless tobacco products and vapor products.
It is the intent of the City Council, in enacting this chapter, to provide for
the public health, safety, and welfare by discouraging the inherently dangerous
behavior of tobacco product and vapor product use around non-users, especially
children; by protecting the public from exposure to secondhand smoke where
people work, play, and learn; by reducing the potential for children to wrongly
associate tobacco product and vapor product use with a healthy lifestyle; and
by affirming and promoting a healthy environment in the City of Stroud. (Ord.
320, 10-20-2016)
8-802: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
INDOOR AREA: Means any enclosed area used or visited by employees or the
public, at all times, regardless of whether work is being performed. Indoor
area includes work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms,
classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, and any other spaces used or visited
by employees, as well as all space between a floor and ceiling that is
predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or windows, regardless of doors,
doorways, open or closed windows, stairways, or the like.
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY: Means all buildings, indoor areas, and outdoor areas,
including but not limited to recreational areas, and other property, or
portions thereof, owned or operated by the City of Stroud, including but not
limited to vehicles and equipment owned by the Municipality.
OUTDOOR AREA: Means any area that is not an indoor area, and includes outdoor
recreational areas.
SMOKING: Means the carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
other lighted smoking device.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Means any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption. Tobacco product does not include any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product.
VAPOR PRODUCT: Means any noncombustible product, which may or may not contain
nicotine that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic
circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce a vapor in a solution or other form. Vapor product shall include any
vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or other form that
is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not contain
nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic device. (Ord. 320, 10-20-
2016)
8-803: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Smoking tobacco products is prohibited in all places in which smoking
tobacco products are prohibited by Oklahoma State law.
   B.   Using tobacco products and vapor products is prohibited on all
Municipal property, indoor and outdoor, including parks and recreational areas.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter prohibits any person or entity from prohibiting
the use of tobacco products or vapor products on their property, even if the
use of tobacco products or vapor products is not otherwise prohibited in that
area.
   D.   No person or entity shall knowingly permit the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in an area that is under the control of that person or entity
and in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by
law.
   E.   No person or entity shall permit the placement of ash receptacles, such
as ash trays or ash cans, within an area under the control of that person or
entity and in which smoking is prohibited by law. However, the presence of ash
receptacles shall not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco products
or vapor products in violation of any provision of this chapter.
   F.   No person shall dispose of tobacco product or vapor product waste
within an area in which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is
prohibited.
   G.   No person or entity shall intimidate, threaten, or otherwise retaliate
against another person or entity that seeks to attain compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 320, 10-20-2016)
8-804: REQUIRED SIGNS:
   A.   The person or entity that has legal or de facto control of an area in
which the use of tobacco products or vapor products is prohibited by this
chapter shall post a clear, conspicuous, and unambiguous sign at each point of
entry to the area, and in at least one other conspicuous point within the area.
   B.   For restrictions on the use of tobacco products or vapor products in
indoor areas, the sign or decal shall be at least 4 inches by 2 inches in size
and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that a
tobacco-free environment is provided. For restrictions on the use of tobacco
products or vapor products in outdoor areas, signs shall be weather- resistant,
at least 15 inches by 15 inches in size, with lettering of a least one inch
(1"), and shall clearly state that smoking or tobacco use is prohibited or that
a tobacco-free environment is provided.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the City Manager or his/her designee
shall be responsible for the posting of signs on Municipal property, both
indoor and outdoor.
   D.   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall
not be a defense to a charge of the use of tobacco products or vapor products
in violation of any other provision of this chapter. (Ord. 320, 10-20-2016)
8-805: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of Stroud
Police and Stroud Code Enforcement Department. In addition, any peace officer
or Code enforcement official may enforce this chapter.
   B.   Any person who knowingly violates this chapter shall be punished by a
citation and fine of not less than thirty dollars ($30.00), and not more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00), in accordance with section
1-108 of this Code.
   C.   The possession of a lighted tobacco product or vapor product in
violation of this chapter is a nuisance.
   D.   The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative and in addition to
any other remedies available at law or in equity.
   E.   Each instance of tobacco product or vapor product use in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
   F.   The use of a vapor product in violation of this chapter is a nuisance.
   G.   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of any
provision of this chapter regarding tobacco product or vapor product use shall
also constitute a violation of this chapter.
   H.   In addition to other remedies provided by this chapter or by other law,
any violation of this chapter, regarding tobacco product or vapor product use
may be remedied by the City Attorney, including, but not limited to,
administrative or judicial nuisance abatement proceedings, Criminal Code
enforcement proceedings, and suits for injunctive relief. (Ord. 320, 10-20-
2016)
8-806: STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY:
It is the intent of the City Council of the City of Stroud to supplement
applicable State and Federal law and not to duplicate or contradict such law.
The provisions of this chapter are severable, and the invalidity of any
provision of the chapter shall not affect other provisions of the chapter,
which can be given effect without the invalid provision. (Ord. 320, 10-20-2016)
CHAPTER 9
FARMERS' MARKETS
SECTION:
8-901: Purpose
8-902: Definitions
8-903: Permitted Use
8-904: Market Manager
8-905: Parking
8-906: Waste
8-907: Additional Rules Of Operation
8-901: PURPOSE:
It is the goal of the City of Stroud, Oklahoma to protect existing and
establish additional farmers' markets to increase access to healthy, local,
affordable, and culturally appropriate foods, encourage community-building,
support local agriculture and economic development, and promote agritourism.
(Ord. 325, 4-13-2017, eff. retroactive to 1-12-2017)
8-902: DEFINITIONS:
FARM PRODUCTS: Means fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, nuts, shell eggs,
honey or other bee products, flowers, nursery stock, livestock food products
(including meat, milk, cheese, and other dairy products), fish, and wine.
FARMERS' MARKET: Means an indoor/outdoor market at a fixed location, open to
the public, operated by a governmental agency, a nonprofit corporation, or one
or more producers, at which:
   A.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the vendors sell farm products
or value-added farm products and
   B.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the vendors who regularly
participate during the market's hours of operation are producers, or family
members or employees of producers.
PRODUCER: Means a person or entity that raises or produces farm products on
land that the person or entity farms and owns, rents, or leases.
VALUE-ADDED FARM PRODUCT: Means any product processed by a producer from a farm
product, such as baked goods, jams, and jellies. (Ord. 325, 4-13-2017, eff.
retroactive to 1-12-2017)
8-903: PERMITTED USE:
Farmers' markets are a permitted use in the following zoning districts:
Agricultural and Commercial Highway, subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Compliance With All Laws: All farmers' markets and their vendors comply
with all Federal, State, and local laws and regulations relating to the
operation, use, and enjoyment of the market premises;
   B.   Permits And Licenses: All farmers' markets and their vendors receive
all required operating and health permits, licenses, and certificates of
insurance, and these documents (or copies) shall be in the possession of the
farmers' market manager or the vendor, as applicable, on the site of the
farmers' market during all hours of operation;
   C.   Acceptance Of Payment From Food Assistance Programs: For eligible goods
or products sold, all farmers' markets and their vendors shall accept all forms
of payment - or shall allow a legitimate and duly authorized third party to
occupy space within the farmers' market area to operate a redemption program -
by participants of Federal, State, or local food assistance programs,
including, but not limited to, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
(SNAP); the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Farmers' Market Nutrition
Program; and the Senior Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, all in a manner
allowed by, and in conformance with, both Federal and State laws and
regulations as those laws and regulations may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 325, 4-13-2017, eff. retroactive to 1-12-2017)
8-904: MARKET MANAGER:
Any farmers' market established by the City of Stroud, Oklahoma shall have the
City Manager or his/her designated agent as market manager. (Ord. 325, 4-13-
2017, eff. retroactive to 1-12-2017)
8-905: PARKING:
All farmers' markets shall provide for a minimum of one vehicle parking space
for each vendor stall. (Ord. 325, 4-13-2017, eff. retroactive to 1-12-2017)
8-906: WASTE:
Removable waste must be had in accordance with all applicable City of Stroud
codes. The farmers' market manager is responsible for ensuring that the site is
restored to a neat condition by no later than the end of the farmers' market
day. (Ord. 325, 4-13-2017, eff. retroactive to 1-12-2017)
8-907: ADDITIONAL RULES OF OPERATION:
   A.   Access to vendor stalls shall be on a first come first serve basis.
Stalls shall not be reserved or for permanent use of any vendor;
   B.   Hours of operation shall be from sunup to sundown three hundred sixty
five (365) days per year;
   C.   Vendor access may be subject to other existing City functions as from
time-to-time scheduled;
   D.   Each vendor shall be responsible for cleanup of stalls used. Should the
market manager determine that a vendor has failed to maintain, clean up or
caused damage to the existing farmer's market additional requirements or
restrictions may be placed on that vendor or access may be denied;
   E.   The sale of wine on the subject property shall be subject to existing
or amended State and/or ABLE Commission requirements. (Ord. 325, 4-13-2017,
eff. retroactive to 1-12-2017)
CHAPTER 10
YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
8-1001: Definitions
8-1002: Furnishing Or Sale Of Tobacco Products And Vapor Products To Minors
8-1003: Distribution Of Tobacco Product And Vapor Product Samples
8-1004: Public Access To Displayed Tobacco Products And Vapor Products
8-1005: Report Of Violations And Compliance Checks
8-1001: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except whe1e the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: Any device that may be used to deliver any
aerosolized or vaporized substance to the person inhaling from the device,
including, but not limited to, an a-cigarette, a-cigar, a-pipe, vape pen, or a-
hookah.
Electronic smoking device includes any competent, part, or accessory of the
device, and also includes any substance that may be aerosolized or vaporized by
such device, whether or not the substance contains nicotine. Electronic smoking
device does not include drugs, devices, or combination products authorized for
sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those terms are defined in
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation, trust, or
association, however formed.
PROOF OF AGE: A driver license, license for identification only, or other
generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as
twenty-one (21) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other
likeness of the individual and appears on its face to be valid.
SAMPLE: A tobacco product or vapor prod~ct distributed to members of the public
at no cost for the purpose of promoting the product.
SAMPLING: The distribution of samples to members of the public in a public
place.
TOBACCO PRODUCT:
   A.   Any product containing, made of, or derived from tobacco or nicotine
that is intended for human consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether
inhaled, absorbed, or ingested by any other means, including but not limited
to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus;
   B.   Any electronic smoking device and any substances that may be
aerosolized or vaporized by such device, whether or not the substance contains
nicotine; or
   C.   Any component, part, or accessory of A. or B., whether or not any of
these contains tobacco or nicotine, including, but not limited to filters,
rolling papers, blunt or hemp wraps, hookahs, mouthpieces, and pipes. “Tobacco
product" does not mean drugs, devices, or combination products authorized for
sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those terms are defined in
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
TRANSACTION SCAN: The process by which a seller checks, by means of a
transaction scan device, the validity of a driver license or other government-
issued photo identification; and Transaction scan device: means any commercial
device or combination of devices used at a point of sale or entry that is
capable of deciphering in an electronically readable format the information
encoded on the magnetic strip or bar code of a driver license or other
government-issued photo identification.
VAPOR PRODUCT: Noncombustible products, that may or may not contain nicotine,
that employ a mechanical heating element, battery, electronic circuit, or other
mechanism, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to produce a vapor in
a solution or other form. "Vapor products" shall include any vapor cartridge or
other container with or without nicotine or other form that is intended to be
used with an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe, or similar product or device. "Vapor products" do not include
any products regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration under
Chapter V of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. (Ord. 351, 1-13-2022)
8-1002: FURNISHING OR SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND VAPOR PRODUCTS TO MINORS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
any tobacco, tobacco product or vapor product {'{'}see definition) to another
person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age, or to purchase in any manner
tobacco, a tobacco products or vapor product on behalf of any such person. It
shall not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of age to
handle tobacco, tobacco products or vapor products when required in performance
of the employee's duties.
   B.   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco, tobacco
products or vapor products shall demand proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude or the basis of
appearance that the prospective purchaser may be less than twenty-one (21)
years of age. If an individual engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco,
tobacco products or vapor products has demanded proof of age from a prospective
purchaser or recipient who is not under twenty-one (21) years pf age, the
failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a violation
of this subsection.
   C.   Any violation of subsection a orb of this article isi an offense
against the City of Stroud; upon conviction of any such offense, the )fiolator
shall be punished as follows:
      1.   Not more than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Not more than Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for the second offense
within a two-year period following the first offense;
      3.   Not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for the third or
subsequent offense within a two (2)-year period following the first offense.
      4.   Not more than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for a fourth or
subsequent offense within a two (2)-year period following the first offense. In
addition to any other pejnalty, the store's license to sell tobacco products or
the store's sales tax permit for a store that is predominantly engaged in the
sale of vapor products in which the sale of other products is merely incidental
may be suspended for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days.
      5.   Any conviction for a violation of a municipal ordinance authorized
by the Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco Act and any compliance checks by a
municipal police officer or a county sheriff pursuant to subsection E of this
seqtion shall be reported in writing to the ABLE Commission within thirty (30)
days of such conviction or compliance check. Such reports shall be compiled in
the manner prescribed by the ABLE Commission.
      6.   For the purpose of determining sedmd or subsequent violations, both
the offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and the
offensels penalized by municipalities and towns and reported to the ABLE
Commission, shall be considered together in such determination.
   D.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to this
section. A person cited for violating this section shall be deemed to have
   reasonably relied upon proof of age, and such person shall not be found
guilty of the violation if such person proves that:
      1.   The individual who purchased or received the tobacco product or
vapor product presented a driver license or other government-issued photo
identification purporting to establish that such individual was twenty-one (21)
years of age or older; or
      2.   The person cited for the violation confirmed the validity of the
driver license or other government-issued photo identification presented by
such individual by performing a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan
device.
      Provided, that this defense shall not relieve from liability any person
cited for a violation of this section if the person failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine whether the physical description and picture
appearing on the driver license or other government-issued photo identification
was that of the individual who presented it. The availability of the defense
described in this subsection does not affect the availability of any other
defense under any other provision of law. (Ord. 351, 1-13-2022)
8-1003: DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCT AND VAPOR PRODUCT SAMPLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco or tobacco product samples orl vapor products samples
to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   No person shall distribute tobacco, tobacco product or vapor product
samples in or on any public street, sidewalk, or park that is Within three
hundred feet (300') of any playground, school, or other facility when the
facility is being used primarily by persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   C.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and !receives a continued
sentence for a violation of subsections A. or B. of this section, the total of
any fines, fees, or costs shall not exceed the following:
      1.   One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the first offense;
      2.   Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for the second offense; and
      3.   Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for the third or subsequent offense.
(Ord. 351, 1-13-2022)
8-1004: PUBLIC ACCESS TO DISPLAYED I TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND VAPOR PRODUCTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products, including loosies, or vapor products in any manner that
allows public access to the tobacco product or vapor products without
assistance from the person displaying the tobacco product or vapor !products or
an employee or the owner of the store. The provisions of this subsection shall
not apply to retail stores which do not admit into the store persons under
twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   When a person is convicted or enters a plea and receives a continued
sentence for a violation of this section, the total of any fines, fees, or
costs shall not exceed Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (Ord.
351, 1-13-2022)
8-1005: REPORT OF VIOLATIONS AND COMPLIANCE CHECKS:
   A.   Any conviction for a violation of this Article and aijly compliance
checks conducted by the Police Department pursuant to Subsection B. of this
section shall be reported in writing to the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement
(ABLE) Commission within thirty (30) days of the conviction or compliance
check. Such reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by the ABLE
Commission. Convictions shall be reported by the Court Clerk or his designee
and compliance checks shall be reported by the Chief of Police and his
designee.
   B.   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the
Police Department to assist in enforcement of this Article pursuant to the
rules of the ABLE Commission. (Ord. 351, 1-13-2022)
TITLE 9
LICENSING AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
SECTION:
9-101: License Tax Levied
9-102: Ex-Serviceperson
9-103: Payment Of License Tax; Issuance Of License; Expiration Dates
9-104: Separate Licenses Required
9-105: License To Be Displayed
9-106: License May Be Revoked
9-107: Transfer Of License Prohibited
9-108: Duplicate License
9-101: LICENSE TAX LEVIED:
   A.   A license tax is hereby levied on every person, firm, association or
corporation engaging in, exercising or pursuing any of the following
businesses, professions, trades, occupations or privileges in this city, in
such amounts as the city council shall set by motion or resolution. A copy of
the current license tax amounts shall be kept in the city clerk's office.
      1.   Any itinerant show, exhibition or entertainment of any kind which
charges admission (including all activities under its auspices):
         a.   If it has not more than five (5) personnel (managers,
technicians, actor and other employees);
         b.   If it has six (6) to ten (10) personnel; or
         c.   If it has more than ten (10) personnel;
provided, that this shall not apply to circuses, menageries, street fairs and
carnivals;
      2.   Any circus traveling by land using:
         a.   From one to ten (10) vehicles;
         b.   From eleven (11) to twenty (20) vehicles; or
         c.   More than twenty (20) vehicles;
including in each case above the right to parade. If the right to parade alone
is applied for, in each case above, one-half (1/2) of the tax shall be changed;
      3.   Any street fair or carnival (including all activities under its
auspices);
      4.   Any shooting gallery, skill or strength game, or game of chance,
such as knife boards, rag or wooden images or other thing or things at which
rings, balls or other things are thrown, pitched or shot, lung testing or
striking machine, or similar device; provided, that this shall not apply to
games under the auspices of street fairs, carnivals and circuses;
      5.   Any ferris wheel, merry-go-round, small cars, or similar apparatus,
when not under the auspices of the street fair, civic club, carnival or circus;
      6.   Any wrestling matches, professional;
      7.   Any itinerant person, agent or solicitor selling, offering for sale,
taking orders for, or offering to take orders for, goods, products, wares,
patent medicines, magazines, services, or other things of any kind, excepting
wholesalers; provided, that this shall not apply to persons selling farm
products produced by themselves in the state;
      8.   Any medicine show;
      9.   Any itinerant photographer or agent, or employee thereof, taking
pictures or taking orders for pictures, or assisting therein; and
      10.   Any dance hall or place where public dances are held; provided,
that this shall not apply to dances held under the auspices of local nonprofit
organizations.
   B.   In order to receive a license under this chapter, every person, firm or
corporation regulated pursuant to this section is required to possess a valid
and current state sales tax permit if such person, firm or corporation meets
the definition of vendor subject to collection of sales taxes under the sales
tax code of the city and state. A copy of this permit shall be provided by the
applicant for a license to the city clerk prior to issuance of the city
license. (2000 Code §
9-101)
9-102: EX-SERVICEPERSON:
Nothing in this chapter or in other ordinances of the city shall be deemed to
require ex-servicepersons to secure a license or pay a license fee for engaging
in a business, occupation or privilege when he is exempted therefrom by 72
Oklahoma Statutes sections 1 through 6, or other provisions of state law. (2000
Code §
9-102)
9-103: PAYMENT OF LICENSE TAX; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION DATES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation to
engage in, exercise or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege for which a license tax is levied by section
9-101 of this chapter, or by any other ordinance or ordinance provision,
without paying the license tax, and securing and possessing a valid license
therefor. Upon making proper application to the city clerk, the payment of the
license tax and fulfillment of any other condition which may be prescribed by
law and/or ordinance, the city clerk shall issue a license therefor. Such
license taxes shall be credited to the general fund of the city.
   B.   Annual licenses shall expire on June 30 of the year for which they are
issued. When an annual license is issued after July 1 for the remainder of the
year to a person, firm, association or corporation just beginning to engage in,
exercise or pursue a business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege, the
tax collected shall be a fractional part of the annual tax equal to the
fraction of the year remaining, with a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00). (2000
Code §
9-103)
9-104: SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
Every person, firm, association or corporation who engages in, exercises or
pursues a business, profession, trade, occupation or privilege for which a
license is required, at or from more than one place in the city, or who engages
in, exercises or pursues more than one such business, profession, trade,
occupation or privilege, shall pay the fee, and secure a separate license, for
each such place or for each such business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege. (2000 Code §
9-104)
9-105: LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED:
Every holder of a license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege, shall conspicuously display the
license at all times in some part of his place of business or activity where a
person who has entered the place may readily see it; or, if he has no
particular place of business or activity, shall carry the license and shall
display it to any person who requests to see it. In lieu of the manner of
displaying such licenses provided in this section, when licenses are required
for coin operated music or amusement devices, vending machines, and similar
devices and equipment, the license may be placed on or attached to such device
or equipment in such position and manner that it will be clearly visible; and
shall be so placed or attached if the license so states on its face. It is
unlawful to fail or refuse to display the license as required in this section.
(2000 Code §
9-105)
9-106: LICENSE MAY BE REVOKED:
Any license issued by the city to any person, firm, association or corporation
to engage in, exercise or pursue any business, profession, trade, occupation or
privilege, may be revoked by the council after adequate opportunity for a
hearing, for the following reasons:
   A.   The licensee is engaging in, exercising or pursuing the business,
profession, trade, occupation or privilege in such a manner that he has created
or is creating a "public nuisance", as defined by state law; or
   B.   Serious or repeated violation of the law or ordinances. (2000 Code §
9-106)
9-107: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
Any assignment or transfer of licenses shall not be permitted in this city.
(2000 Code §
9-107)
9-108: DUPLICATE LICENSE:
Whenever any license to engage in, exercise or pursue a business, profession,
trade, occupation or privilege, has been lost or destroyed without any wrongful
act or connivance by the holder, the city clerk, on application, shall issue a
duplicate license for the unexpired time. Before the duplicate is issued, the
holder shall make, and file with the city clerk an affidavit that the license
has not been transferred, that it has been lost or destroyed without any
wrongful act or connivance by the holder, and that, if believed lost, he has
made diligent search for it and has not been able to find it. The fee for every
duplicate license issued, payable to the city clerk, shall be as set by the
council. (2000 Code §
9-108)
CHAPTER 2
POOL, BILLIARD AND OTHER RECREATION HALLS AND ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
9-201: Minors Not Allowed
9-202: Proper Operation; Time When Closed
9-203: Skating Rinks; Time Of Operation
9-204: Public Dances; Times When Not Permitted; Persons Under Eighteen Years;
Regulations
9-205: Fees For Fortune Telling Prohibited
9-201: MINORS NOT ALLOWED:
It is unlawful for any person in charge of a pool, billiard or other recreation
hall serving low point beer to permit a minor to resort to or loiter in such
hall, or to play pool, billiards or other games therein, unless he is
accompanied by a parent or guardian or has the written consent of a parent or
guardian. It is also unlawful for a minor to resort to or loiter in such a hall
or to play pool, billiards or other games therein unless he is accompanied by a
parent or guardian or has the written consent of a parent or guardian. (2000
Code §
9-201)
9-202: PROPER OPERATION; TIME WHEN CLOSED:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of a pool, billiard
or other recreation hall to permit therein gambling, betting, operation of a
lottery, sale, furnishing or drinking of intoxicating liquor, disorderly
conduct, loud or disturbing language, noise or music, profane language, or any
other violation of the laws of the state or of the ordinances of the city.
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of such a hall to
permit therein fighting, boxing, wrestling, or other contests of physical
strength.
   C.   It is unlawful for the owner, manager or operator of a pool, billiard,
or other recreation hall where 3.2 beer is sold to operate it between the hours
of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., except
Saturday nights when such may be operated until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. Sunday
morning. On Sunday afternoons, a pool, billiard or other recreation hall where
3.2 beer is sold may be operated between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (2000 Code §
9-202)
9-203: SKATING RINKS; TIME OF OPERATION:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate or assist in
operating a skating rink on Sunday, except between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon
and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. However, organizations and groups may contract for
the use of a skating rink from Sunday at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. until twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight, but the same shall not be open during those hours to
the public. Such skating rink shall not be operated on any other day between
the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., except,
however, a skating rink may maintain not more than one all night skating
activity which is open to the public not more than once in every calendar
month. (2000 Code §
9-203)
9-204: PUBLIC DANCES; TIMES WHEN NOT PERMITTED; PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS;
REGULATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate, conduct
or supervise, or assist in the operation, conduct or supervision of, any dance
where the public is permitted to dance, at any time on Sunday or between twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on any other day.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
enter or be in a dance hall unless such person is accompanied by a parent or
guardian, or is properly chaperoned by a responsible person; or for any person
operating, conducting or supervising, or assisting in the operation, conduct or
supervision of, such a dance, knowingly to permit a person under eighteen (18)
years of age to remain in such place, unless so accompanied or chaperoned.
   C.   A public dance or dance hall shall comply with all applicable city and
state laws and ordinances. The city may inspect the dance or dance hall to
determine whether or not there exist any violations of state or local law or
codes. A violation of this section is an offense punishable as provided in
section
1-108 of this code.
   D.   A "dance hall", as used in this section, is any establishment or
premises where social dancing occurs and a patron pays an admittance fee or
minimum charge. (2000 Code §
9-204)
9-205: FEES FOR FORTUNE TELLING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person or persons pretending or professing to tell
fortunes by the use of any subtle craft, means or device whatsoever, either by
palmistry, clairvoyance, or otherwise, plying his or her trade, art or vocation
within this city, to make any charge therefor, either directly or indirectly,
or to receive any gift, donation or compensation by any means whatsoever for
the same. (2000 Code §
9-205)
CHAPTER 3
OTHER BUSINESS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-301: Going Upon Private Residences
9-302: Consent Required For Sale Of Personal Property On Premises Of Another
9-303: Auctions On Streets And Sidewalks Unlawful
9-304: Sale From Vehicles Prohibited In Certain Area
9-305: Salvage Yard Regulations
9-306: Short Weights And Measures Prohibited
9-307: Feed Grinding Mill; Location And Equipment
9-308: Automobile Salvage Shop
9-309: Outdoor Dining
9-301: GOING UPON PRIVATE RESIDENCES:
   A.   In the exercise of the authority conferred upon the City by State law,
the practice of going to, in or upon the premises of any private residence in
the City by door to door salespersons, solicitors, peddlers and order takers,
without the express consent, request or invitation of the owner or the occupant
of such private residence, for the purpose of soliciting orders for the
purchase or for the sale of goods, wares or publications or merchandise of any
description, or for the purpose of peddling or hawking the same, or for the
purpose of soliciting subscriptions thereto, is hereby prohibited.
   B.   This section shall not apply to salespersons, solicitors, peddlers or
order takers representing sales of local nonprofit or charitable organizations.
   C.   Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be punishable as
misdemeanor by the City. Any person convicted of violating any provisions of
this section shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (2000 Code §
9-301)
9-302: CONSENT REQUIRED FOR SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ON PREMISES OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, including a civic or
religious organization, to sell, barter, trade or transfer any merchandise or
other personal property of any kind on premises belonging to another without
the consent of the owner or person in control of the premises. (2000 Code §
9-302)
9-303: AUCTIONS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to hold any public or private auction for sale of
property on any of the streets or sidewalks of the City; provided, that this
section shall not apply to the sale of property under any execution or order of
any court of the State or of the United States of America. (2000 Code §
9-303)
9-304: SALE FROM VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREA:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or offer for
sale from any truck, wagon or other vehicle, fruit, vegetables or other
merchandise in or upon the streets or alleys within the fire limits of the
City. (2000 Code §
9-304)
9-305: SALVAGE YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of this section and section
9-308 of this chapter, a "salvage yard" shall mean any place where junk cars,
trucks or motor vehicles are accumulated, either for storage of the same or
resale of the same, or any parts thereof.
   B.   No person, firm or corporation operating a salvage yard now in
existence in the City shall expand or increase the area in which such salvage
is accumulated over and beyond the area being used on October 13, 1960. No
person, firm or corporation shall establish or construct any new or additional
salvage yard or yards within the corporate limits of the City after October 13,
1960.
   C.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall extend, expand or increase
the area in which such salvage yards within the corporate limits of the City
shall be deemed to have created a public nuisance, which shall be abated as
provided by applicable State law or ordinance. If impractical to abate such
nuisance by such method, the Council, by motion or resolution, shall direct the
bringing of a suit in the District Court to abate the public nuisance as
authorized by State law. The procedures for abating or dealing with public
nuisances as described in this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to
other procedures authorized by law or ordinance. (2000 Code §
9-305)
9-306: SHORT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, or offer for sale,
any food, fuel, clothing, or any other commodity which does not weigh or
measure fully as much, according to standard weights or measures of the State,
as the weight or measure for which it is sold or offered for sale. (2000 Code §
9-306)
9-307: FEED GRINDING MILL; LOCATION AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   No feed grinding mill shall hereafter be erected or enlarged within the
City limits at any place unless actual location of the feed grinder is three
hundred feet (300') or more, measured from the middle of the street, from each
adjoining property line which delimits any property which is used for
residential purposes.
   B.   Any feed grinding mill hereafter erected or enlarged within the City
limits shall provide for storage of raw products and finished products in
buildings that will protect such material from the elements, and shall be
equipped with all public road or adjacent property and to minimize any smells
or dust that might be created by the operation of the feed grinding mill.
   C.   Any failure to comply with the above requirements shall constitute a
nuisance and may be abated as provided in sections
8-102 through
8-107 of this Code, both inclusive.
   D.   In addition to the procedures for abatement of the nuisance hereinabove
referred to, any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
shall constitute a criminal offense and may be chargeable as such. Each day's
continued violation of any of the provisions hereof shall constitute a separate
offense and may be chargeable as such. (Ord. 184, 10-19-2001)
9-308: AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE SHOP:
   A.   Defined: An "automobile salvage shop" is a place where motor vehicles
of any and all kinds, or parts thereof, are bought or acquired for the purpose
of either wrecking, disassembling and/or salvaging the parts taken therefrom
for the purpose of resale as secondhand parts.
   B.   License Required: No person or entity shall maintain or operate any
automobile salvage shop within the City unless there is first obtained from the
City Clerk a license, for which there is a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
The license will expire December 31 of each year. A yearly inspection of the
premises shall be made prior to the license being renewed in order to verify
compliance of this section. The condition of said license shall be that the
licensee shall maintain and operate said automobile salvage shop at all times
strictly in accordance with the provisions of the City ordinance applicable
thereto.
   C.   Location: No automobile salvage shop shall be located in an area not
zoned either Commercial Highway, Light Industry or Heavy Industry. Such
location, or any part thereof, must be not less than three hundred feet (300')
from any residence, church or school.
   D.   Conditions Of Operation: Such operation, where cars are stored, must be
wholly surrounded by a fence of some opaque manufacture or construction
sufficiently high to obstruct the view of drivers from all highways, turnpikes,
streets and alleys adjoining the same. The fence shall, in no event, be less
than eight feet (8') high of solid construction and erected and maintained in a
substantial and workmanlike manner. It shall be unlawful for any person engaged
in the operation of an automobile salvage shop to permit any vehicle which he
has acquired for the purpose of wrecking, disassembling and/or salvaging to
remain on any public thoroughfare adjoining the premises, or in an area not
enclosed by the fence described above. (Ord. 196, 2-12-2004)
9-309: OUTDOOR DINING:
The City Manager shall be authorized to issue a revocable permit to any
restaurant, dining establishment or bar for the use of any sidewalk or right-
of-way area immediately adjacent to said establishment for outside service of
customers, subject to the terms hereof.
   A.   Any such permit shall be unconditionally revocable, without notice, at
the discretion of the City Manager, and shall not be deemed to convey or vest
any right in continued possession thereof;
   B.   Permits shall be operative only for the business to which issued and
only for regular hours of business;
   C.   No person or firm holding such permit shall cause or allow the exercise
of the permit to impede the public use of streets or sidewalks, or to cause a
public nuisance;
   D.   No retail sales of anything but food or beverage shall be allowed, and
no display or storage of merchandise shall be authorized;
   E.   No permanent installation of seating, tables or other structures shall
be permitted;
   F.   No area shall be used where the use of same results in a reduction of
available parking;
   G.   No signs or other advertising additional to that otherwise allowed by
City regulations shall be permitted;
   H.   Any permittee hereunder shall, by the issuance of a permit, indemnify
and hold the City harmless for any claim, damage or cause of action arising out
of the exercise of privilege attached to this section;
   I.   No permit shall be construed or deemed to authorize an exception to or
variance from any applicable Building, Electrical or Zoning Code;
   J.   The conduct of activity described in this section without a permit, or
in violation of the provisions of any issued permit, or following the
revocation of a permit, shall be deemed a violation of law and subject that
person to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for violations of
this section (each day constituting a separate offense);
   K.   No more than fifty percent (50%) of the sidewalk adjacent to a
permitted business shall be taken up for outdoor use, and in no case shall less
than four feet (4') of passable sidewalk be permissible;
   L.   No permit shall be issued to allow dining or drinking in such manner as
the patrons will be standing; it is required that all patrons be seated;
   M.   The City Manager may attach such requirements to an issued permit as
are necessary, in his judgment, to protect the public welfare and carry out the
intent of applicable regulations. (Ord. 328, 5-5-2017, eff. 5-11-2017)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
9-401: Definitions
9-402: Exemptions
9-403: Fraud And Other Offenses
9-404: License Required
9-405: Application
9-406: Investigation And Issuance
9-407: Bond
9-408: Employer Liable For Acts Of Employee
9-409: Term
9-410: Display
9-411: Transfer
9-412: Exception For Interstate Commerce
9-413: Violation; Penalty
9-401: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
COUPON BOOK SELLER: Any individual traveling by foot or any means whatsoever
from place to place, from building to building, from house to house, from
street to street or contacting persons by telephone, taking or attempting to
take orders for the sale of coupon books which are to be used for discounts or
free goods, wares, merchandise, personal property of every nature whatsoever
for future delivery, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for
sale a sample of the coupon book for sale or whether he is collecting advance
payments on such sales or not.
ITINERANT MERCHANT/TRANSIENT STREET VENDOR: Any person engaged in the business
or occupation of selling any merchandise, products or services from a temporary
indoor or outdoor location obtained from an owner or leaseholder, or obtained
by occupying the location without permission or by occupying a location on a
street right of way. "Itinerant merchant/transient street vendors" do not
include:
   A.   Participants in wholesale trade shows or convention sponsored events,
trade fairs or flea markets;
   B.   Sellers of bibles, agricultural goods, including Christmas trees and
firewood, or crafts or items made by hand;
   C.   Participants in fairs and convention center activities conducted
primarily for amusement or entertainment;
   D.   Participants in residential garage sales;
   E.   Civic, church and educational groups that are located in the local
trade area.
PEDDLER: Includes the words "hawker" and "huckster", and means any person who
travels by foot or by any type of conveyance from place to place or from street
to street carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares or merchandise of
whatsoever nature, offering and exposing the same for sale; or who, without
traveling from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from any
vehicle or conveyance.
SOLICITOR OR CANVASSER: Any individual traveling by foot or any means
whatsoever from place to place, from building to building, from house to house
or from street to street, or contacting persons by telephone, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise,
personal property of every nature whatsoever for future delivery or for
services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such
individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such
sale or whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales or not. (2000
Code §
9-401)
9-402: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The hawking and peddling of farm products sold by farmers are exempted
from these regulations pertaining to produce raised and grown exclusively by
such farmers.
   B.   Any needy, disabled ex-serviceperson who has been a citizen and
resident of this state for one year may engage in what is known as hawking and
peddling, to give illustrated lectures and such other like entertainment
without paying a city license or tax for privilege of so doing. Before any ex-
serviceperson shall be entitled to any of the privileges set out in this
section, he shall make an affidavit in writing, before some officer authorized
by law to administer oaths, that he is a citizen and resident of this state and
has been for one year previous, that he served in the military of the United
States as provided in this section and was honorably discharged therefrom, and
that he is in genuine financial need of the privileges conferred by this
section.
   C.   A certificate of the judge of the district court of the county that he
is entitled to the benefits and privileges set out in this section shall be
sufficient proof of the need or disability of such ex-serviceperson and of such
ex- serviceperson's service in the military of the United States. Such
certificate shall be of public record in the office of the city clerk and shall
also be of record in the police department. No single certificate shall be
effective for a period in excess of sixty (60) days.
   D.   The privileges granted by this section shall not be assignable or
transferable to or used by any other person except those persons to whom
certificates have been issued as provided.
   E.   The words "ex-serviceperson", as used in this section, shall mean such
honorably discharged persons as served in any branch of the military service of
the United States during the period of any war in which the United States
participated as a belligerent. (2000 Code §
9-402)
9-403: FRAUD AND OTHER OFFENSES:
It is unlawful and an offense for any solicitor, peddler, itinerant merchant/
transient street vendor or coupon book seller to:
   A.   Harass, threaten, coerce or otherwise unreasonably apply duress to any
citizen or otherwise breach the peace while attempting to perform the services
of a solicitor or coupon book seller;
   B.   Fail to provide any goods or services which have been paid for in full
or in part;
   C.   Defraud, trick, cheat or otherwise mislead any person into subscribing
for or purchasing any goods or services when the solicitor, peddler, itinerant
merchant/transient street vendor or coupon book seller knows or should know
that the goods or services will not be provided or delivered. (2000 Code §
9-403)
9-404: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall engage in the business of solicitor, peddler, itinerant
merchant/transient street vendor or coupon book seller without first having
obtained a license, except persons soliciting on behalf of public schools or
educational, religious, disabled veterans, farmers or eleemosynary institutions
located or affiliated within the city.
   B.   Any person denied a license may appeal to the city council by filing
notice thereof with the city clerk within five (5) days of the denial. The city
council shall render a decision at its next regular meeting. (2000 Code §
9-404)
   C.   A quarterly license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be due
upon a license being issued by the city of Stroud, Oklahoma, city clerk. Said
fees are payable every three (3) months thereafter as long as business is being
carried out within the territorial boundaries of the city of Stroud, Oklahoma.
(Ord. 273, 7-12-2012)
9-405: APPLICATION:
An application for license pursuant to this section shall be sworn to and filed
with the city clerk. It shall contain the following:
   A.   Name and address of person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city; the location or address of such person or persons
when engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such
person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act; the
name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any, and if a corporation, under the laws of
what state the same is incorporated; if employed by another, the name and
address of the applicant employer and credentials of the relationship;
   B.   The place or places in the city within the proper zoning
classification, where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's business and
the length of time during which it is proposed that the business be conducted;
   C.   Place or places, other than permanent place of business of the
applicant, within the six (6) months next preceding the date of the
application, where the applicant has conducted a transient business;
   D.   The nature of the goods or products being sold, that is whether they
are "seconds", rejects or first line quality, and whether any warranty applies
to the items being sold; if a warranty applies, the period of the warranty and
the name and address of the warrantor and the procedures for filing for the
adjustment of refund shall be specified. If the applicant is a farmer or truck
gardener, the applicant shall state whether the goods are produced by him on
land he owns, cultivates and controls;
   E.   A statement that the applicant agrees to the requirement to pay all
state and city sales taxes due on all items which are subject to sales taxes
and recognizes that a copy of all applications will be provided to the local
office of the Oklahoma tax commission;
   F.   Current state sales tax permit number and verification of payment of
sales tax to the state and city;
   G.   Current license or permit, if any, which may be required by state law
or ordinances of the city for the particular activity or business;
   H.   If a motor vehicle is to be used in the business, a description of the
vehicle, together with motor vehicle registration number and the license number
for the vehicle; and
      1.   Proof of liability insurance required by state law; and
      2.   Proof or verification from the insurance carrier that the city
clerk-treasurer will be provided at least ten (10) days notice of any
cancellation;
   I.   Whether the merchandise or goods are tax exempt and exemption from
Oklahoma sales tax claimed;
   J.   For coupon book sellers, a copy of all contracts with merchants for the
delivery of goods and services. For solicitors and coupon book sellers, a copy
of the sales pitch shall be furnished the city if one is to be made over the
telephone;
   K.   Itinerant merchants and transient street vendors shall supply a
document from the county clerk that establishes that the business has complied
with state law, particularly posting bond required by 19 Oklahoma Statutes
section 1608;
   L.   The applicant shall disclose if the applicant has been convicted of a
felony, and if so, the nature of the offense and punishment or penalty
therefor. (2000 Code § 9-405; amd. Ord. 346, 8-13-2020)
9-406: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE:
   A.   Upon receipt of the application for license, the chief of police shall
cause such investigation of the applicant's background to be made as he deems
necessary in the interests of public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   If the city finds no past history of the applicant indicating
violations of this code, that the application and applicant complies with all
applicable state and local requirements, and that the application is properly
made and truthful, a license shall be issued to the approved applicant upon
payment of the fee therefor and the filing of the required bond. Otherwise, the
license shall be denied and no license shall be issued. (2000 Code §
9-406)
The chief of police shall determine if the applicant or applicant's employees
are registered through the county as a registered sex offender or with the
department of corrections sex offender registry. Should the chief of police
determine that the applicant or any of the applicant's employees who are
soliciting business for the applicant are listed as a registered sex offender,
the application for a license shall be denied. (Ord. 272, 7-12-2012)
   C.   In all matters of denial of the license, the applicant shall be
forthwith advised thereof. The applicant shall be advised that an appeal of a
denied license may be submitted to the city council. (2000 Code §
9-406)
9-407: BOND:
   A.   Every person applying for a license to engage in the business of
peddling goods, wares or merchandise or canvassing for the sale of the same
shall, before such license is issued, enter into a bond with the city with
approved sureties in the sum as set by the city, conditioned that such
applicant will strictly and faithfully observe all ordinances, regulations and
requirements of the city in relation to peddlers, solicitors, canvassers,
itinerant merchants and itinerant vendors, coupon book sellers or to such
applicant's business and will pay all costs, fines or penalties incurred on
account of his failure or neglect in that behalf. The bond shall be further
conditioned that the applicant will at all times do all work and perform all
services relating to or arising from such canvassing, soliciting and peddling
in a good and workmanlike manner. The city shall be fully indemnified and held
harmless from any expenses or damages to real or personal property or personal
injury done to any person or property in the performance of such work or the
performance of such services that may arise out of or be occasioned in the
performance of such work or services and that he will cause all property
damages by him to be repaired and put in the same condition as it was before
the work was done. The bond shall be further conditioned that the applicant
will pay all costs, expenses or damages arising from any misrepresentation to
any person to whom such applicant shall make any sale.
   B.   Licenses issued and bonds filed hereunder shall cover the applicant and
all of his agents, servants, employees and representative. (2000 Code §
9-407)
9-408: EMPLOYER LIABLE FOR ACTS OF EMPLOYEE:
For purpose of the suspension or revocation of a solicitor's, peddler's,
itinerant merchant/transient street vendor's or coupon book seller's license,
it shall be sufficient to show that any solicitor or seller in the employ of
such license holder has violated any provisions of this chapter. (2000 Code §
9-408)
9-409: TERM:
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire one year from the date
of issuance, except itinerant merchant/transient street vendor licenses which
are valid for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of issuance. Such
licenses may be renewed for an additional ninety (90) day period. (2000 Code §
9-409)
9-410: DISPLAY:
All licensees hereunder shall exhibit their licenses at the request of any
person. (2000 Code §
9-410)
9-411: TRANSFER:
No license issued under this chapter is transferable. (2000 Code §
9-411)
9-412: EXCEPTION FOR INTERSTATE COMMERCE:
If any person or licensee covered by this chapter is engaged in interstate
commerce, the person or licensee must bring in proof of the interstate commerce
nature of the business to the city clerk. The city clerk will make
determination of whether or not the business does involve interstate commerce.
If it does, a license will be issued and the fee is waived. If not, the person
or licensee can be licensed pursuant to the licensing requirements of this
chapter. A denial of the interstate commerce exemption of the fee process may
be appealed to the city council pursuant to the procedures adopted by the city.
(2000 Code §
9-412)
9-413: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter is punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this code, in addition to revocation, suspension or other city action
on the license. (2000 Code §
9-413)
CHAPTER 5
PENALTY
SECTION:
9-501: Penalty
9-501: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, association or corporation who shall engage in any business,
profession, trade or occupation, or exercise any privilege, for which a license
is required by this title, without a valid license as thereby required, or who
shall violate any provision of this title, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
9-501)
TITLE 10
OFFENSES AND CRIMES
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES IN GENERAL
SECTION:
10-101: Attempts To Commit An Offense
10-102: Aiding In An Offense
10-101: ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE:
Every person who attempts to commit an offense against the ordinances of the
city, and in such attempt does any act toward the commission of such offense,
but fails or is prevented or intercepted in the perpetration thereof, is guilty
of an offense, and shall be punished in the manner prescribed for the attempted
offense itself. (2000 Code §
10-101)
10-102: AIDING IN AN OFFENSE:
When no punishment for counseling or aiding in the commission of a particular
offense is expressly prescribed by ordinance, every person who counsels or aids
another in the commission of such is guilty of an offense, or misdemeanor, and
punishable in the same manner as the principal offender. (2000 Code §
10-102)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
10-201: Petit Larceny Prohibited
10-202: Receiving Stolen Property
10-203: Injuring Automobiles And Other Vehicles
10-204: Destroying Or Injuring Buildings And Other Property
10-205: Placing Signs On Property Of Another
10-206: Throwing Or Shooting At Persons Or Property
10-207: Tampering With Or Damaging Public Utilities
10-208: Unlawful Intrusion Upon Land
10-209: Illegal Entrance
10-210: Throwing Advertising On Street Prohibited
10-211: Throwing Injurious Substances
10-212: Injury To Plants And Trees
10-213: Public Streets And Trees
10-214: Trespass Prohibited
10-215: Parking On Property Of Another
10-216: Interference With Fire Hydrants
10-201: PETIT LARCENY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Petit larceny is the taking of personal property of value not exceeding
one hundred dollars ($100.00) accomplished by fraud or stealth and with intent
to deprive another thereof, but it does not include the taking of such property
from the "person" of another.
   B.   Petit larceny is unlawful, and any person who commits larceny shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (2000 Code §
10-201)
10-202: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
   A.   It is unlawful to buy, receive in any manner, upon any consideration,
any personal property of any value whatsoever that has been stolen, embezzled,
obtained by false pretenses or robbery, knowing or having reasonable cause to
believe the same to have been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or
robbery, or to conceal, withhold, or aid in concealing or withholding such
property from the owner.
   B.   Any person who, without making reasonable inquiry, buys, receives,
conceals, withholds or aids in concealing or withholding any property which has
been stolen, embezzled, obtained by false pretense or robbery, or otherwise
feloniously obtained, under such circumstances as should cause such person to
make reasonable inquiry to ascertain that the person from whom such property
was bought or received had the legal right to sell or deliver it, shall be
presumed to have bought or received such property knowing it to have been
stolen or wrongfully obtained. This presumption may, however, be rebutted by
proof. (2000 Code §
10-202)
10-203: INJURING AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to start, otherwise meddle with, molest, enter,
occupy, loiter in, take or drive away any automobile or other vehicle belonging
to another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (2000
Code §
10-203)
10-204: DESTROYING OR INJURING BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to destroy, injure, deface, besmear, or molest
any structure, building, outbuilding, fence, or any other property, real or
personal, public or private, belonging to another; or to use any such property
wrongfully to the detriment of the owner or other person entitled to its use;
or to interfere wrongfully with the use of any such property by its owner or
any other person entitled to its use. (2000 Code §
10-204)
10-205: PLACING SIGNS ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to place, stick, tack, paste, post, paint, mark,
write or print any sign, poster, picture, announcement, advertisement, bill,
placard, device or inscription upon any public or private building, fence,
sidewalk, bridge, viaduct, post, automobile, other vehicle or other property of
another, without the consent of the owner or person in charge thereof. (2000
Code §
10-205)
10-206: THROWING OR SHOOTING AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or shoot any stone, shot or other object
into or across any street or alley, or in any place where he is likely to hit
another person wrongfully or to injure property, or to throw or shoot any
stone, shot or other object at any person, vehicle, structure, electric light
or other property of another (whether public or private), except in case where
such is done in defense of oneself, of another person or of property. (2000
Code §
10-206)
10-207: TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING PUBLIC UTILITIES:
It is unlawful for any person to connect or attach any kind of pipe, wire or
other contrivance to any pipe, line, wire or other conductor carrying gas,
water, cable television or electricity and belonging to a public utility
(whether publicly or privately owned), in such a manner as to enable him to
consume or use the gas, water, cable television or electricity without it
passing through the meter or any other way so as to evade payment therefor. It
is also unlawful for any person to damage, molest, tamper with, or destroy any
pipe, line, wire, meter, or other part of any public utility, including any
telegraph or telephone system. (2000 Code §
10-207)
10-208: UNLAWFUL INTRUSION UPON LAND:
It is unlawful for any person to intrude or squat upon any lot or piece of land
within the city without a license or authority from the owner thereof, or to
erect or occupy thereon any hut, hovel, shanty or other structure without such
license or authority, or to place, erect or occupy within the bounds of any
street, alley or avenue of the city, any hut, shanty, hovel, or other structure
without authority of law or ordinance. (2000 Code §
10-208)
10-209: ILLEGAL ENTRANCE:
It is illegal for any person to enter upon the property of another or into an
area or structure on such property (whether such property, area or structure is
public or private), when such entrance is plainly forbidden by signs or
otherwise or when the property, area or structure is enclosed, except when such
entrance is in line of duty, or with the expressed, or tacit consent of the
owner or person in charge, or otherwise by authority of law or ordinance. (2000
Code §
10-209)
10-210: THROWING ADVERTISING ON STREET PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit, or cause to be
thrown, left or deposited, upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
area, any handbill, circular or other advertising matter. (2000 Code §
10-210)
10-211: THROWING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES:
It is unlawful for any person to purposely or premeditatedly put or throw upon
the person or property of another, or upon any animal, any acid, corrosive or
other irritating or harmful substance, or human or animal waste or urine, with
intent to injure or harass the person, property or animal. (2000 Code §
10-211)
10-212: INJURY TO PLANTS AND TREES:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully and without authority cut, pull,
pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees
growing in or around any park or public street within the city, or wilfully or
without authority to tear down, remove, cut or otherwise injure or destroy any
gate or fence enclosing any such park or ground, or wilfully injure or destroy
any stand, bench, seat or other property situated upon such park or ground.
(2000 Code §
10-212)
10-213: PUBLIC STREETS AND TREES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Wilfully or wantonly cut, deface or in any way injure any tree or
sapling standing or growing in any of the streets, alleys or public places
within the city;
      2.   Attach any guywires, telephone, telegraph, or electric wire, or any
wire to any live tree;
      3.   Dig any hole, ditch or trench in any public street, road, avenue or
alley, or any other public premises or ground within, belonging to or under the
supervision or control of the city;
      4.   Take or remove any dirt, earth or any substance from any street,
road, alley or other public place in the city; or to cut, break or otherwise
injure any pavement, curb or gutter therein; or
      5.   Connect any driveway to any street or other public place without
first securing permission from the city inspector so to do.
   B.   Any such digging, removing or driveway connection shall be done under
the supervision of the street superintendent or city engineer. (2000 Code §
10-213)
10-214: TRESPASS PROHIBITED:
   A.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall be defined
as follows:
    PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: That property which is dedicated to public use and over
which the federal, state or municipal government or any subdivision thereof
exercises control.
   TRESPASS: Each and every actual entry upon the premises of an owner or other
person in lawful possession of the premises without the express or the implied
consent of the owner or other person in lawful possession. "Trespass" shall
also mean remaining upon the premises of an owner or other person in lawful
possession after having been told to leave the premises by the owner, or the
agent, or employee of the owner, or other person in lawful possession of the
premises. "Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of remaining on private
property at any time other than during posted hours of business operation after
having been directed to vacate such premises by a police officer; provided,
that the provisions of this definition shall not apply to persons, including
employees, whose presence upon such premises is authorized by the owner or by a
person in lawful possession of such premises; nor shall the provisions of this
definition apply unless hours of business operations are posted upon such
premises. "Trespass" shall also be defined as the act of returning to private
property before the posted time of opening for business operation on the next
business day after having been directed to vacate such premises under the terms
of this subsection.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to trespass on private property. (2000
Code §
10-214)
10-215: PARKING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER:
It is unlawful for any person to park an automobile or other vehicle, or to
place any structure or object on the driveway, yard or property of another
without the expressed or tacit consent of the owner or person in charge
thereof, or when necessary in the performance of a duty, or otherwise by
authority of law or ordinance. (2000 Code §
10-215)
10-216: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the
city utility superintendent or a member of the fire department, to open, turn
on or off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect anything
with, any fire hydrant or stopcock belonging to the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct access to any fire
hydrant by placing around or thereon brick, lumber, dirt or other thing, or in
any other manner obstructing access to a fire hydrant. (2000 Code §
10-216)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC
SECTION:
10-301: Disturbing The Peace
10-302: Insulting Signs, Literature Or Language
10-303: Literature Or Language Ridiculing Religion
10-304: Fireworks Regulated
10-305: Storing Or Keeping Explosives
10-306: Carrying Weapons; Exceptions
10-307: Reckless Conduct
10-308: Discharging Firearms; Exceptions
10-309: Loud Noise Or Music Prohibited, Amplified Sound
10-310: Political Advertising On Rights Of Way
10-301: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   It is unlawful to disturb or alarm the peace of another or others by
doing any of the acts set out in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Disturbing the peace is the doing of any of the following in such a
manner as would foreseeably alarm or disturb the peace of another or others:
      1.   Using obscene, offensive, abusive, profane, vulgar, threatening,
violent or insulting language or conduct;
      2.   Appearing in an intoxicated condition;
      3.   Engaging in a fistic encounter;
      4.   Lewdly exposing one's person, or private parts thereof, in any
public place or in any place where there are present other persons to be
offended or annoyed thereby;
      5.   Pointing any pistol or any other deadly weapon, whether loaded or
not, at any other person or persons either in anger or otherwise;
      6.   Holding an unlawful assembly of two (2) or more persons, including
being assembled together and acting in concert, to do any unlawful act against
the peace or to the terror of others, or preparing for or moving toward such
acts, or otherwise assembling unlawfully or riotously;
      7.   Interrupting any lawful assembly of people by making noise, by rude,
indecent or improper behavior, by profane, improper or loud language, or in any
other manner, either within the place of assembly or within hearing distance
thereof;
      8.   Making unnecessarily loud, offensive noises;
      9.   Disturbing any congregation or assembly of persons meeting for
religious worship by making noise, by rude, indecent or improper behavior, by
profane, improper or loud language, or in any other manner, either within the
place of worship or within hearing distance thereof; or
      10.   Committing any other act in such a manner as to unreasonably
disturb or alarm the public. (2000 Code §
10-301)
10-302: INSULTING SIGNS, LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the
city to display any sign, emblem, badge, flag or device, which in its common
acceptance is insulting, profane, or abusive to the citizens of the city, and
which is calculated, or of which the natural consequence is, to cause a breach
of the peace or an assault.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully use, utter, publish,
circulate or distribute any profane, violent, abusive, or insulting language or
literature where:
      1.   A natural consequence of the language or literature is to cause a
breach of the peace or an assault; or
      2.   The language or literature, in its common acceptance, is calculated
to cause a breach of the peace or an assault. (2000 Code §
10-302)
10-303: LITERATURE OR LANGUAGE RIDICULING RELIGION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to utter, publish, distribute or circulate
any literature or language within the corporate limits of the City that casts
profane ridicule on any deity, or any religion, which in its common acceptance
is calculated or where the natural consequence is to cause a breach of the
peace or an assault. (2000 Code §
10-303)
10-304: FIREWORKS REGULATED:
   A.   Definitions:
CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Means any devices suitable for use by the public that
conform with the requirements of the United States Consumer Products Safety
Commission (CPSC) and are designed primarily to produce visible effects by
combustion, and some small devices designed to produce an audible effect.
DISPLAY FIREWORKS: Means fireworks devices that are primarily intended for
commercial displays which are designed to produce visible and/or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. Display fireworks include,
but are not limited to, salutes containing more than two (2) grains (130 mg) of
explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than forty grams (40 g) of
pyrotechnic compositions and other exhibition display items that exceed the
limits for consumer fireworks according to the Department of Transportation
(DOT).
DISTRIBUTOR: Means any person who sells fireworks and novelties to other
distributors, wholesalers or retailers for resale or provides them as part of a
pyrotechnic display service in the State of Oklahoma.
FIREWORKS: Means any composition or device for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, and which are further described as consumer fireworks 1.4G, display
fireworks 1.3G, articles, pyrotechnic 1.4G or 1.45 as defined by the United
States Department of Transportation (DOT) title 49, CFR. The term "consumer
fireworks" shall not include toy cap pistols and caps, blank cartridges,
railroad flares and model rockets or any novelty. This provision shall not
impose labeling requirements for any fireworks or novelties other than those
required under Federal law.
MANUFACTURER: Means any person engaged in the making or constructing of
fireworks.
NOVELTY: Means a device containing small amounts of pyrotechnic and/or
explosive composition. Such devices produce limited visible or audible effects.
These items must be approved by the United States Department of Transportation
(DOT) or have been deregulated by DOT.
PERSON: Means any corporation, association, partnership or one or more
individuals.
RETAILER: Means any person who purchases fireworks and novelties for resale to
consumers only. A retailer who sells fireworks to the consumer buys only an
Oklahoma retail license and may purchase merchandise in or out of the State as
long as the retailer buys from a person that has a legal license to do business
in the State of Oklahoma.
WHOLESALER: Means any person who purchases fireworks and novelties for resale
only to retailers and consumers.
   B.   Permits Required: It is unlawful for any entity to manufacture, sell,
furnish, use, provide or discharge any fireworks within the City limits, except
as hereinafter provided. All retailers shall also present all Federal and State
permits along with their Sales Tax permit before any City license shall be
issued.
   C.   Dates Of Sale; License; Fee; Signage: Fireworks which are legal under
State and Federal law may be sold in the City limits on June 22nd, through July
6th; provided, that such seller has obtained a retail fireworks license
purchased from any licensed wholesaler, manufacturer or distributor; as per all
State and Federal regulations; obtained or has a Sales Tax permit; and then
obtained a license from the City and paid a license fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per season, license fee will be charged for each applicant. Such
applicant seeking a license to sell from the City shall make application to the
City Clerk no less than ten (10) days prior to June 22nd. Applications must be
made by June 10th of each and every year to be considered for a permit. Such
applicant shall show that such sales will be from a rigid building which shall
have adequate exits and where the fireworks will be kept so they cannot be
reached or handled, except by salespersons. Such building must be not less than
three hundred feet (300') from where gasoline is sold. The sale or storage of
fireworks where the public may move about, under or within the confines of the
building or structure is prohibited. The building must be conspicuously posted
with signs reading "FIREWORKS-NO SMOKING".
   D.   Flame Resistant Structures: Tents, canopies or temporary membrane
structures must have a flame resistance meeting the requirements of NFPA 701,
standard method of fire testing for flame resistant textiles and film. A
certificate or other evidence of approval by a recognized laboratory must be
available for inspection by authorities to certify the makers meet the required
flame resistance.
   E.   Electronic Connections: Before any sales are made, the electric
connections must be properly grounded and inspected by the building inspector
for compliance with this section, this Code and State law.
   F.   Skyrockets With Sticks Prohibited: The sale, gift, distribution or use
of skyrockets with sticks, as defined by the U.S. Department of Transportation
(includes bottle rockets and/or stick rockets) is prohibited.
   G.   Public Displays Ordered by Mayor Or Council: The provisions of this
section shall not be construed to prohibit the presentation of supervised
public displays when ordered by the Mayor or City Council to be discharged by
properly qualified individuals. Such public displays shall be of such character
and so located, discharged or fired, as, in the opinion of the Chief of the
Fire Department, shall not be hazardous to surrounding property or endanger any
person or persons.
   H.   Foster Park: The discharge of fireworks by the public within the
confines of Foster Park located within the territorial boundaries of the City
shall be prohibited and said prohibition shall be inclusive of any date
designated as the Federal independence holiday. This section shall not prohibit
displays as referenced in subsection G of this section.
   I.   Violation: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00). Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
   J.   Safe Operation; Age Requirement: The retail license holder shall be
responsible for the safe operation of retail sales to the public. The retail
license holder shall be at least sixteen (16) years of age.
   K.   Labeling: Any and all items sold by the license holder shall be
properly labeled according to the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission.
   L.   Aerial Luminaries:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, distribute, possess,
ignite, or otherwise use aerial luminaries, commonly known as sky lanterns,
Hawaii lanterns, Knogming lanterns, Chinese lanterns, sky candles, fire
balloons or flying luminaries.
      2.   As used in this section, "aerial luminary" means an airborne paper
lantern containing a small candle, or other device for fuel, that heats air
from inside the lantern causing the lantern to rise into the air and remain
airborne until the candle or other device extinguishes.
   M.   Prohibited Activities:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to explode or ignite fireworks within five
hundred feet (500') of any church, hospital, asylum, unharvested, flammable
agricultural crop, public school or where fireworks are stored, sold or offered
for sale. No person shall ignite or discharge any permissible articles of
fireworks within or throw the same from a motor vehicle; nor shall any person
place or throw any ignited article of fireworks into or at such a motor vehicle
or at or near any group of people. No fireworks shall be set off within a five
hundred foot (500') radius of any downtown building. (Ord. 308, 9-10-2015)
   N.   Debris, Trash, And Refuse: A person who acts as a retailer of fireworks
within the City limits of Stroud, Oklahoma shall remove all debris, trash or
other refuse within twenty four (24) hours of July 6 from the location where
the fireworks were sold. In the event said retailer shall fail and refuse to
remove said materials, the retailer shall be fined two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) per day for each day that said debris is not removed. Each day will
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 332, 8-10-2017)
   O.   Discharging Fireworks: Any consumer who purchases fireworks in
accordance with this chapter shall not discharge any firework between the hours
of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and nine thirty o'clock (9:30) A.M. on dates
allowed; dates allowed are to be set from July 1st through July 5th. Fireworks
shall not be set off on these dates between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. and nine thirty o'clock (9:30) A.M. with the exception of July 4th in
which discharging of fireworks will be allowed from nine thirty o'clock (9:30)
A.M. until one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. the following day.
      1.   The Stroud Fire Chief with consultation with the City Council and
City Manager may institute a ban on setting off fireworks due to extremely dry
conditions in an attempt to keep a fire from happening.
      2.   Setting off fireworks in front of a resident who owns property at
the edge of the street is allowed. It will be each property owner's
responsibility to clean up all trash created by such actions. If such firework
debris is not picked up within twenty four (24) hours, the City will then take
necessary action according to this Code. (Ord. 323, 12-8-2016)
10-305: STORING OR KEEPING EXPLOSIVES:
It is unlawful for any person to store or keep within the City any
nitroglycerin, dynamite, gunpowder, or any other highly explosive material or
substance, except that gunpowder may be kept in quantities of not to exceed
five (5) pounds where the same is securely kept. (2000 Code §
10-305)
10-306: CARRYING WEAPONS; EXCEPTIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon or about his person any
pistol, revolver, dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife, switchblade knife, spring
type knife, metal knuckle, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instrument, except when doing so in line of duty or as may be permitted by law.
(2000 Code §
10-306)
10-307: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in reckless conduct while having in his
possession any shotgun, rifle or pistol, such actions consisting of creating a
situation of unreasonable risk and probability of death or great bodily harm to
another, and demonstrating a conscious disregard for the safety of another
person. (2000 Code §
10-307)
10-308: DISCHARGING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS:
No person shall discharge any species of firearm in the City, except when doing
so in the line of duty, when lawfully doing so in defense of oneself, of
another person or of property, or when otherwise authorized by law or
ordinance. It is unlawful to discharge an air rifle, BB gun, or paintball gun
powered by CO2 in the City. (2000 Code §
10-308)
10-309: LOUD NOISE OR MUSIC PROHIBITED, AMPLIFIED SOUND:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quietude of any
part of the City by operating, having operated, or permitting to be operated,
any contrivance, whether electric or not, with or without a loudspeaker, in
such a manner as to emit unreasonably loud music, noise or words. No person
owning, renting or otherwise occupying a residence within the City shall
operate or permit the operation of any sound amplification system at the
residence so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of one hundred
feet (100') from the residence.
   B.   For purposes of this section:
PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Any sound produced by a sound amplification system at the
residence which clearly can be heard at a distance of one hundred feet (100').
Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses, based upon direct line
of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and bass reverberations are
included.
SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM: Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
loudspeaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of the human
voice, music or noise.
   C.   It is unlawful to play, operate or use any device known as a sound
truck, loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph with loudspeaker
with sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits
loud or raucous noises on a street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway. No
person operating or occupying a vehicle on a street, highway, alley, parking
lot or driveway shall operate or permit the operation of any sound
amplification system from within the vehicle so that the sound is plainly
audible at a distance of one hundred feet (100') from the vehicle.
   D.   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
person occupying the residence or operating the vehicle is not otherwise
prohibited by law from operating the sound amplification, and that any of the
following apply:
      1.   The system was being operated to request medical assistance;
      2.   The sound amplification was part of authorized public activities
which had been approved by the City Council or the City Manager.
   E.   Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall be subject
to punishment as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (2000 Code §
10-309)
10-310: POLITICAL ADVERTISING ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   A "political advertising sign" is defined as any sign, poster or
placard printed, painted, made or designed for the purpose of furthering or
advertising the candidacy of any person who is or intends to become or may be a
candidate for the election to any public office, whether such public office be
in the local, State or Federal government, or any subdivision thereof.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or display
any advertising sign or advertising of any other character upon any public
utility easement within the City.
   C.   No person, firm or corporation shall place, tack, nail, staple or glue
any advertising sign on any telephone, telegraph, electric or street lighting
pole within this City.
   D.   Any advertising sign erected, placed or displayed in violation of the
provisions hereof shall be a public nuisance. No property right shall exist in
such sign erected, placed or displayed in violation of the provisions hereof
and such sign may be removed and destroyed by any person. (2000 Code §
10-310)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AGAINST THE HEALTH, WELFARE AND MORALS
SECTION:
10-401: Public Intoxication And Drinking Prohibited
10-402: Possession, Transportation Of Low Point Beer
10-403: Intoxicating Liquors
10-404: Narcotics Prohibited
10-405: Prostitution And Lewd Conduct
10-406: Disorderly House
10-407: Maintaining Or Leasing A. Disorderly House
10-408: Residents And Visitors To Disorderly House
10-409: Nudity, Improper Dress, Indecent Exposure
10-410: Definitions, Obscenity Regulations
10-411: Prohibited Obscene Conduct
10-412: Vagrancy Involving Criminal Acts
10-413: Curfew For Minors
10-414: Sleeping On The Streets, Depots
10-415: Gambling Prohibited
10-416: Loitering About Place Where Gambling Is Going On
10-416-1: Applicability Of Sections
10-415 And
10-416 Of This Chapter
10-417: Harmful Deception
10-418: False Or Bogus Checks
10-401: PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND DRINKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to appear or be upon or in any street,
alley or other public place in the city in a state of intoxication. It is
unlawful for any person to drink intoxicating liquor or beverage upon or in any
street, alley or other public place within the city. It is unlawful to use,
sell or furnish to another any illegal drug or narcotic in any place in the
city, except as legally prescribed by a physician.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, a "state of intoxication" means the
condition in which a person is under the influence of any intoxicating,
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, or of any narcotic, to such extent as to
deprive the person of his or her full physical or mental power. (2000 Code §
10-401)
10-402: POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION OF LOW POINT BEER:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
be in possession of any low point beer while such person is upon any public
street, road or highway, or in any public place within the city limits.
   B.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to permit such person to be in possession of low point
beer.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any low point beer, except in
the original container which shall not have been opened and from which the
original cap or seal shall not have been removed unless the opened container be
in the rear trunk or rear compartment. The rear trunk or compartment shall
include the spare tire compartment in a station wagon or panel truck, or any
outside compartment which is not accessible to the driver or any other person
in the vehicle while it is in motion.
   D.   For the purpose of this section, "low point beer" shall be as defined
by 37 Oklahoma Statutes section 163.2. (2000 Code §
10-402)
10-403: INTOXICATING LIQUORS:
It is unlawful:
   A.   For any person to barter, sell, give away or otherwise furnish to
another any intoxicating liquor or beverage of any kind, except as permitted by
law;
   B.   To have in possession or under control any intoxicating liquor or
beverage, except as permitted by law, or to transport or in any manner convey
from place to place in the city any intoxicating liquor or beverage, except as
permitted by law;
   C.   To loiter in a place where intoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given
away or otherwise furnished contrary to law; or
   D.   To keep, maintain, aid or abet in keeping or maintaining a place where
intoxicating liquor is sold, bartered, given away or otherwise furnished in
violation of law. (2000 Code §
10-403)
10-404: NARCOTICS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business or
other public place while under the influence of opium or other narcotic;
      2.   To use, have or possess opium or other narcotic upon or in any
street, alley, place of business or other public place within the city;
      3.   To use opium or other narcotic in any place within the city, except
as legally prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in the state;
      4.   To loiter about a place where opium or other narcotic is sold or
furnished illegally;
      5.   To sell or furnish illegally to another person opium or any other
narcotic;
      6.   To use, have or possess drug paraphernalia.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, "narcotic" includes marijuana and any
controlled dangerous drug as defined by 63 Oklahoma Statutes section
2-101. (2000 Code §
10-404)
10-405: PROSTITUTION AND LEWD CONDUCT:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Be a prostitute;
      2.   Solicit, entice or procure another to commit or engage in any act of
prostitution or lewdness;
      3.   Engage in any act of prostitution or act of lewdness;
      4.   Knowingly let premises for purposes of prostitution or lewdness;
      5.   Conduct a business or premises for prostitution or lewdness;
      6.   Accept or receive the proceeds of any act of lewdness or
prostitution; or
      7.   Be a party to an act of prostitution or solicitation of prostitution
or be a party to an act of lewdness in the limits of city.
   B.   For the purposes of this section:
LETTING PREMISES FOR LEWDNESS: The granting of the right of use or the leasing
of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of lewdness
or allowing the continued use of the premises with that knowledge.
LETTING PREMISES FOR PROSTITUTION: The granting of the right of use or the
leasing of any premises, knowing that they are to be used for the practice of
prostitution, or allowing the continued use of the premises with that
knowledge.
LEWDNESS: The performance of an act of sexual intercourse or other sexual
activity with another person, except a spouse, of either sex, for the purpose
of obtaining an orgasm, or to offer to solicit or suggest to another person
such activity.
PROSTITUTION: The giving of the body for sexual intercourse or sodomy for hire
or money.
SOLICITING FOR PROSTITUTES: The soliciting, inviting, inducing, directing or
transporting of a person to any place with the intention of promoting
prostitution. (2000 Code §
10-405)
10-406: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
A "disorderly house" means any structure or vehicle by which the peace,
comfort, health, welfare or decency of the public is disturbed by reason of the
people therein committing or resorting to any of the following acts:
   A.   The sale, distribution, possession or use of any controlled, dangerous
substance, the sale, distribution, possession or use of which is declared
unlawful by state statute;
   B.   The violation of any of the ordinances of this city or statutes of this
state regulating the sale, distribution, possession or use of alcoholic
beverages, including beer containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%)
alcohol by volume;
   C.   The performance of any sexual act declared unlawful by state statute or
city ordinance, including, but not limited to, soliciting for purposes of
prostitution; or
   D.   The violation of any state statute or city ordinance prohibiting
gambling. (2000 Code §
10-406)
10-407: MAINTAINING OR LEASING A DISORDERLY HOUSE:
   A.   No person shall keep or maintain, or aid, abet or assist in keeping and
maintaining a disorderly house.
   B.   No owner, lessee, lessor or other person, partnership or corporation
having control over any house, building, structure, tent, vehicle, mobile home
or recreational vehicle shall knowingly use, lease, sublease or otherwise
permit the use of the same for the purpose of keeping therein any disorderly
house, and knowing or ascertaining that such house, building, structure, tent,
vehicle, mobile home or recreational vehicle is so occupied as a disorderly
house, no persons, partnership or corporation shall continue to grant
permission to so use such premises as a disorderly house. (2000 Code §
10-407)
10-408: RESIDENTS AND VISITORS TO DISORDERLY HOUSE:
No person shall knowingly reside in, enter into, or remain in a disorderly
house. In any prosecution for violation of this section, the city shall have
the burden to prove such knowledge by direct evidence only and not by
circumstantial evidence. This section shall not apply to physicians or officers
in the discharge of their professional or official duties. (2000 Code §
10-408)
10-409: NUDITY, IMPROPER DRESS, INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Appear in any public place in the city in a state of nudity;
   B.   Appear in any public place in the city in any offensive, indecent or
lewd dress; or
   C.   Make an indecent public exposure of his or her person. (2000 Code §
10-409)
10-410: DEFINITIONS, OBSCENITY REGULATIONS:
The following terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the meaning
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC: The matter or performance may be purchased or attended
on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a separate fee
for each item or performance.
DISSEMINATE: To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
KNOWINGLY: Being aware of the character and the content of the material.
MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material,
or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other pictorial
representation, or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernible turgid state.
OBSCENE: To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
   A.   The predominant appeal of the matter taken as a whole, is to prurient
interest, i.e., shameful or morbid interest in sexual conduct, nudity or
excretion; and
   B.   The matter depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner sexual
conduct regulated by 21 Oklahoma Statutes; and
   C.   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
PERFORMANCE: Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
PROMOTE: To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
SERVICE TO PATRONS: The provision of services to paying guests in
establishments providing food and beverages, including, but not limited to,
hostessing, hatchecking, cooking, bartending, serving, table setting and
clearing, waiter and waitressing, and entertaining. (2000 Code §
10-410)
10-411: PROHIBITED OBSCENE CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Knowingly disseminate, distribute or make available to the public any
obscene material; or
   B.   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity, or exhibition
utilizing displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts
that promote such commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal; or
   C.   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public; or
   D.   Provide service to patrons in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
      1.   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or
pubic hair region;
      2.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
      3.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof; or
      4.   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed unlawful
acts. (2000 Code §
10-411)
10-412: VAGRANCY INVOLVING CRIMINAL ACTS:
It is unlawful to be a vagrant in the limits of the city. For the purposes of
this section, a "vagrant" means any person who loiters or remains in or wanders
about, a public or private place for any of the following purposes:
   A.   For the purpose of gambling with cards, dice or other gambling
paraphernalia;
   B.   For the purpose of engaging in prostitution or soliciting prostitution
or soliciting for an act of lewdness;
   C.   For the purpose of engaging in theft, or breaking and entering any
building, property or automobile of another;
   D.   For the purpose of injuring, destroying, molesting or defacing any
property of another;
   E.   For the purpose of assaulting any person;
   F.   For the purpose of begging or soliciting alms; provided, that this
section shall not apply to persons soliciting alms for bona fide religious,
charitable or eleemosynary organizations with the authorization of such
organizations; or
   G.   For the purpose of selling, purchasing, trading or otherwise
exchanging, procuring or making available illegal drugs or contraband. (2000
Code §
10-412)
10-413: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.   The public purpose of this section is to protect juveniles from
nocturnal dangers, enhance parental supervision and responsibility for
juveniles and protect the public at large.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, the following terms, phrases, words
and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
CURFEW HOURS: One minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. until six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on any day of the week.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a juvenile; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a juvenile has been placed by a
court.
JUVENILE: A person under the age of eighteen (18).
KNOWINGLY PERMIT: The "parent", other "responsible adult" or "operator", as
defined in this section, is aware of the fact the juvenile is in violation of
the curfew hours, or that the person by exercise of reasonable care would have
known that the juvenile is in violation of the curfew hours.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor as a natural parent,
adoptive parent or stepparent of another person.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and retail establishments.
REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
RESPONSIBLE ADULT: Any person having, assuming or charged with permanent or
temporary care or custody of a juvenile, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Any legal guardian or adult exercising legal guardianship over a
juvenile;
      2.   An adult who stands in loco parentis to a juvenile;
      3.   Any person to whom legal custody of a juvenile has been given by
order of a court;
      4.   Any adult who has, assumes or is charged with the care or custody of
a juvenile at the request of or on behalf of a parent, guardian, loco parentis
or person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a court;
      5.   Any adult who has, assumes or is charged with the care or custody of
a juvenile at the request of or on behalf of another parent.
   C.   A juvenile commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city limits during curfew hours. A
parent, other responsible adult of a juvenile, the owner, operator or any
employee of an establishment commits an offense if:
      1.   He knowingly permits or allows the juvenile to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the city limits during
curfew hours; and
      2.   He has twice previously acted within any consecutive six (6) month
period so as to knowingly permit or allow the juvenile to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the city limits during
curfew hours. Every subsequent violation thereof will constitute a separate
violation.
   D.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the juvenile was
at the time in question:
      1.   Accompanied by the juvenile's parent or responsible adult;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the juvenile's parent or
responsible adult, without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the juvenile's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the juvenile's presence;
      7.   Attending, going to or returning home, without any detour or stop,
from an official school, religious or other recreational activity supervised by
adults, or an event sponsored by the city, a civic organization or another
similar entity that takes responsibility for the juvenile;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly or other rights protected by the United States or the
Oklahoma constitution;
      9.   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the owner, operator or
employee of an establishment promptly notified the police department that a
juvenile was present on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours
and refused to leave.
   E.   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
this section is present.
   F.   Absent an interlocal agreement with the district court for the
municipal court to exercise jurisdiction over juveniles under eighteen (18)
years of age under this section pursuant to 10 Oklahoma Statutes section 7303-
1.2(E), the municipal court must refer all alleged juvenile violations to the
juvenile bureau of the district attorney's office.
   G.   A person who violates a provision of this section is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is punishable
by a fine as provided in section
1-108 of this code. The court may require community service work prescribed by
the court in lieu of a fine if the product of multiplying the number of minimum
hours of community service work by the prevailing wage does not result in a
number which exceeds the maximum fine authorized by law. The municipal court's
jurisdiction over a juvenile who violates this section shall be expressly
subject to 10 Oklahoma Statutes sections 7303-1.1 through 7303-8.6. (2000 Code
§
10-413)
10-414: SLEEPING ON THE STREETS, DEPOTS:
It is unlawful for any person, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and sunrise, to sleep on any street, in any other public place, or on
any property of another without the express or tacit consent of the owner or
person in charge of such place. (2000 Code §
10-414)
10-415: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or agent or
employee thereof, to do any of the following:
      1.   To play, to open or cause to be opened, or to operate, carry on or
conduct, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, poker, roulette,
craps, any banking, percentage or other game played with dice, cards, or any
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other thing of value;
      2.   To set up, operate or permit to be operated, any slot machine or
other device whatsoever where money, checks, chips, credit or any other things
of value are played, when the act of playing the same might result in a gain or
loss to the party playing;
      3.   To gamble knowingly in any other manner; or
      4.   To knowingly permit his or its premises, houses, lot or other
property to be used in connection with, or for, any act declared unlawful in
this section.
   B.   It is unlawful and an offense against the city for any person to play
any roulette wheel or slot machine, or any other device or machine, wherein the
element of chance is involved by losing or winning money, credits, checks or
any other representatives of value. (2000 Code §
10-415)
10-416: LOITERING ABOUT PLACE WHERE GAMBLING IS GOING ON:
It is unlawful for any person to loiter about in the immediate vicinity where a
person or persons are gambling, whether by playing games, operating a slot
machine or other device, or otherwise. (2000 Code §
10-416)
10-416-1: APPLICABILITY OF SECTIONS 10-415 AND 10-416 OF THIS CHAPTER:
Section
10-415 of this chapter, which prohibits gambling, and section
10-416 of this chapter, which prohibits loitering about a place where gambling
is going on, are hereby limited in their applicability to only those actions
not authorized by state law. (Ord. 203, 11-10-2005)
10-417: HARMFUL DECEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to deceive another, whether by
impersonation, misrepresentation, or otherwise, when such deception results in
or contributes to the loss, damage, harm or injury of the person deceived or of
a third party, or results in or contributes to the benefit of the deceiver.
(2000 Code §
10-417)
10-418: FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS:
It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, to obtain or
attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation, any money, property or
valuable thing of the value by means of any false or bogus check or by any
other written or printed or engraved instrument or spurious coin. The term
"false or bogus check" shall include checks or orders given for money or
property which are not honored on account of insufficient funds of the maker to
pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof. The making, drawing, issuing
or delivering of a check, draft or order, payment of which is refused by the
drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and the knowledge of
insufficient funds in or credit with, such bank or other depository. Such maker
or drawer shall not have paid the drawee the amount due thereon, together with
the protest fees, and the check or order shall be presented for payment within
one hundred eighty (180) days after same is delivered and accepted. (2000 Code
§
10-418)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
10-501: Assault And Battery Prohibited
10-501: ASSAULT AND BATTERY PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful to commit an assault or an assault and battery within
the city.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, an "assault" is any wilful and
unlawful attempt or offer with force or violence to do a corporal hurt to
another. A "battery" is any wilful and unlawful use of force or violence upon
the person of another. (2000 Code §
10-501)
CHAPTER 6
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-601: Resisting An Officer
10-602: Refusing Or Failing To Assist An Officer
10-603: Assault Or Battery Upon Police Or Other Law Officer
10-604: Rescuing Prisoners
10-605: Escape Of Prisoners
10-606: Impersonating An Officer Or Employee
10-607: False Alarms
10-608: False Representation To An Officer
10-609: Removal Of Barricades
10-610: Resisting Public Officials
10-611: Eluding Police Officer
10-601: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
   A.   It is unlawful to resist, oppose or assault, or in any way interfere
with, the police chief or any person duly authorized to act as such, while the
officer or person is discharging or attempting to discharge his official duties
within the limits of the city.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to warn or signal another so as to assist
such other person to flee, escape or evade an officer seeking to make an
arrest, or for any person to bar or lock any door or barrier in the face of or
in front of an approaching officer.
   C.   Resisting an officer is the intentional opposition or resistance to, or
obstruction of, an individual acting in his official capacity, and authorized
by law to make a lawful arrest or seizure of property, or to serve any lawful
process or court order, when the offender knows or has reason to know that the
person arresting, seizing property, or serving process is acting in his
official capacity.
   D.   The words "obstruction of" shall, in addition to their common meaning,
include:
      1.   Flight by one sought to be arrested before the arresting officer can
restrain him and after notice is given that he is under arrest;
      2.   Any violence toward or any resistance or opposition to the arresting
officer after the arrested party is actually placed under arrest and before he
is under arrest; or
      3.   Refusal by the arrested party to give his name and make his identity
known to the arresting officer. (2000 Code §
10-601)
10-602: REFUSING OR FAILING TO ASSIST AN OFFICER:
   A.   An officer of the city making or about to make an arrest, or executing
or about to execute a warrant or other process, in accordance with the
ordinances of the city or with state or federal law, or suppressing or about to
suppress a riot, affray or unlawful assembly, may call upon a person or persons
to assist him in making such arrest, executing such process or suppressing such
riot, affray or unlawful assembly.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person lawfully called upon thus to assist an
officer of the city to refuse or fail to do so. (2000 Code §
10-602)
10-603: ASSAULT OR BATTERY UPON POLICE OR OTHER LAW OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person, without justifiable or excusable cause, to
knowingly commit any assault, battery or assault and battery upon the person of
a police officer or other officer of the law while in the performance of his
duties. (2000 Code §
10-603)
10-604: RESCUING PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person, in any illegal manner, to set at liberty, rescue
or attempt to set at liberty, any prisoner or prisoners, from any officer or
employee of the city having legal custody of the same or from the city jail or
other place of confinement by the city, or to assist such prisoner in any
manner to escape from such prison or custody either before or after conviction,
including escape from a vehicle of confinement. (2000 Code §
10-604)
10-605: ESCAPE OF PRISONERS:
It is unlawful for any person confined in the city jail or other place of
confinement by the city, or working upon the streets or other public places of
the city in pursuance of any judgment, or otherwise held in legal custody by
authority of the city, to escape or attempt to escape from any such jail,
prison or custody. (2000 Code §
10-605)
10-606: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any officer or employee of the
city, falsely represent himself to be an officer or employee of the city, or
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of an
officer or employee of the city without being duly authorized to do so. (2000
Code §
10-606)
10-607: FALSE ALARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to turn in a false alarm of any nature or in any
manner to deceive or attempt to deceive the fire department or police
department, or any officer or employee thereof, with reference to any fire
alarm or reported fire, accident or other emergency, or knowingly to cause the
fire department or police department or its officers or employees to make a
useless run. (2000 Code §
10-607)
10-608: FALSE REPRESENTATION TO AN OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee
thereof, knowingly to make any material misrepresentation to any officer,
employee or agency of the city government in any official application to, or
official dealing or negotiation with, such officer or agency; or to commit
perjury before any tribunal or officer of the city. (2000 Code §
10-608)
10-609: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES:
It is unlawful for any person, except by proper authority, to remove any
barricade or obstruction placed by authority of the city to keep traffic off
any pavement, street, curb, sidewalk or other area. (2000 Code §
10-609)
10-610: RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIALS:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly or wilfully to:
   A.   Resist, oppose or obstruct the chief of police, any other police
officer, the municipal judge, or any other officer or employee of the city in
the discharge of his official duties;
   B.   Threaten or otherwise intimidate or attempt to intimidate any such
officer or employee from the discharge of his official duties; or
   C.   Assault or beat, or revile, abuse, be disrespectful to, use abusive or
indecent language toward or about, any such officer or employee while such
officer or employee is in the discharge of his official duties. (2000 Code §
10-610)
10-611: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual
and audible signal, a red light and a siren from a police officer driving a
motor vehicle showing the same to be an official police car, directing the said
operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, and who wilfully increases his speed
or extinguishes his lights in an attempt to elude such police officer, or who
does elude such police officer. (2000 Code §
10-611)
CHAPTER 7
PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-701: General Penalties
10-701: GENERAL PENALTIES:
Any violation of the provisions of this title is punishable by fine or
imprisonment as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
10-701)
CHAPTER 8
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY MINORS
SECTION:
10-801: Definitions
10-802: Consumption In Public Place Or Place Not Open To The Public
10-803: Allowing Gatherings Where Minors Are Consuming Alcoholic Beverages
10-804: Reservation Of Legal Options
10-801: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from
whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits of wine, or beer, and which
contains one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) or more, of alcohol by volume and
which is fit for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or
combined with other substances. This term includes intoxicating beverages and
"low point beer" as defined herein.
GATHERING: A party, gathering, or event where a group of three (3) or more
persons have assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or social
activity.
INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Includes beverages containing more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A. A person who by court order, is a guardian of the person of
a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
LOW POINT BEER: Means and includes beverages containing more than one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) alcohol by volume and not more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to, beer or
cereal malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of
barley or other grain malt or similar products.
MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or
stepparent of another person.
PREMISES: Any residence or other private property, place or premises, including
any commercial or business premises.
RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with respect to responses by law
enforcement, fire, and other emergency response providers to a gathering,
including, but not limited to: a) salaries and benefits of law enforcement,
code enforcement, fire or other emergency response personnel for the amount of
time spent responding to, remaining at or otherwise dealing with a gathering,
and the administrative cost attributable to such responses; b) the cost of any
medical treatment for any law enforcement, code enforcement, fire or other
emergency response personnel injured, responding to, remaining at or leaving
the scene of a gathering; c) the cost of repairing any city equipment or
property damaged, and the cost of the use of any such equipment in responding
to, remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering; and d) any other
allowable costs relating to the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 261, 6-9-
2011)
10-802: CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACE OR PLACE NOT OPEN TO THE PUBLIC:
Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful for any minor to:
   A.   Consume at any public place or any place open to the public, alcoholic
beverage; or
   B.   Consume at any place not open to the public any alcoholic beverage,
unless in connection with the consumption of the alcoholic beverage by a minor
who is being supervised by his or her parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 261, 6-9-
2011)
10-803: ALLOWING GATHERINGS WHERE MINORS ARE CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Hosting Parties With Minors: It is unlawful for any person having
control of any premises to knowingly host, permit or allow a gathering to take
place at said premises where at least one minor consumes an alcoholic beverage,
whenever the person having control of the premises, either knows a minor has
consumed an alcoholic beverage or reasonably should have known that a minor
consumed an alcoholic beverage.
   B.   Religious Practices: Nothing in this section should be interpreted to
prohibit any religious practice which includes the use of alcohol. However, if
a minor leaves such a religious gathering intoxicated, and is found to be in
public, then said providers of alcohol will be held responsible in the same
manner as at a nonreligious gathering.
   C.   Licensed Premises: This section shall not apply to any premises
licensed by the state of Oklahoma to dispense alcoholic beverages.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the city and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00),
plus all court costs and statutory penalties. (Ord. 261, 6-9-2011)
10-804: RESERVATION OF LEGAL OPTIONS:
   A.   Violations of this chapter may be prosecuted by the city of Stroud,
Oklahoma, criminally, civilly, and/or administratively as provided by this
code. The city may seek administrative fees and response costs associated with
enforcement of this chapter by using all remedies or procedures provided by
statute, ordinance or law.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply where prohibited or preempted by state or
federal law. (Ord. 261, 6-9-2011)
TITLE 11
PARKS, RECREATION AND CEMETERY
CHAPTER 1
CITY PARK
SECTION:
11-101: Park, Pool And Drive Of City
11-102: Pool; Wading, Swimming And Throwing Objects In
11-103: Signs, Bills, Prohibited In Park
11-104: Refuse Not To Be Dumped In City Park
11-105: Fires In The Park
11-106: Fishing
11-101: PARK, POOL AND DRIVE OF CITY:
The City Park owned by the City, being located on the following described land
in Lincoln County, Oklahoma:
Beginning at the southeast corner of the southwest quarter of the southeast
quarter of Section Twenty-two (22), Township Fifteen (15) North, Range Six (6)
East of the I.M., thence west a distance of 820 feet, thence north 1,153 feet,
thence east 820 feet, thence south 1,153 feet, to the point of beginning, shall
be known as "Foster Park",
and the City owned swimming pool shall be officially named and designated as
the "Stroud Municipal Pool". It is further hereby ordered that the circular
drive through Foster Park shall be officially named "Gillespie Drive". (2000
Code §
11-101)
11-102: POOL; WADING, SWIMMING AND THROWING OBJECTS IN:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to swim, wade or throw any objects
in the Stroud Municipal Pool when the same is not regularly open for business
as authorized and prescribed by the City Council. (2000 Code §
11-102)
11-103: SIGNS, BILLS, PROHIBITED IN PARK:
No person, firm or corporation shall erect any signs, or post or maintain any
bills, posters or notices upon any building, tree, fence or other object in the
City Park. This section shall not prohibit any person, firm or corporation from
painting or displaying his name upon any bench or seat furnished by him for the
convenience of the public. (2000 Code §
11-103)
11-104: REFUSE NOT TO BE DUMPED IN CITY PARK:
No person, firm or corporation shall place or dump any refuse or trash in the
City Park or on any of the streets leading to the City Park. (2000 Code §
11-104)
11-105: FIRES IN THE PARK:
No person, firm or corporation shall build any fire in the City Park without
leaving some person in charge thereof to see that no damage is done to any of
the park property, until the fire is extinguished. (2000 Code §
11-105)
11-106: FISHING:
   A.   No person shall fish in the lake at Foster Park except with a hook and
line with plugs, artificial bait, minnows, flies or similar devices. No
trotline, seine, minnow seine, gun, trap or any kind of snare shall be used to
take fish from such waters. No person shall take or attempt to take fish from
such waters by means of a net, trotline, seine, trap, gun or any explosive,
poison, chemical or other substance placed therein.
   B.   This section is made applicable as it pertains to any type of fishing
at Foster Park. Any violation of this section shall subject the offender to a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per occurrence. (Ord. 335, 10-30-2017)
CHAPTER 2
CEMETERY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-201: Sale Of Lots
11-202: Burial
11-203: Digging Graves
11-204: Erection Of Markers And Improvements
11-205: Trees And Shrubs
11-206: Rules And Regulations
11-207: Trash And Refuse
11-208: Fires
11-209: Not To Be In Cemeteries At Night
11-201: SALE OF LOTS:
All lots in the cemeteries shall be sold by the city clerk, and deeds thereto
issued by the mayor and attested by the city clerk. (2000 Code §
11-201)
11-202: BURIAL:
No body shall be buried in the cemeteries until some authorized person has
first procured a deed to the lot or burial place necessary therefor. No body
shall be buried therein until the cemetery sexton shall have been notified
thereof, and all burials shall be under the direction of the cemetery sexton.
All interments must be made in an outer receptacle which may consist of steel,
fiberglass or concrete vaults or boxes or other nonperishable material approved
in advance by the city. It shall be the responsibility of the parties involved,
excluding the city, to place such outer receptacle in the open grave. (2000
Code §
11-202)
11-203: DIGGING GRAVES:
No grave shall be dug in the city cemeteries except under the direction and
supervision of the cemetery sexton. (2000 Code §
11-203)
11-204: ERECTION OF MARKERS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
No person, firm or corporation shall erect, or labor on the erection, or
install, or labor upon the installation of, any tombstone, monument, vault,
retaining wall, walk or other marker or improvement upon any burial lot or
tract in the cemeteries until the plans therefor have been submitted to and
approved by the city council. (2000 Code §
11-204)
11-205: TREES AND SHRUBS:
No person, firm or corporation shall plant or set out any tree or shrub, or
permit any tree or shrub to grow upon any lot in the city cemeteries in
violation of or contrary to the general plan of beautification for the city
cemeteries adopted by the city council. When any tree or shrub has heretofore
been planted, and thereafter by reason of its growth becomes in violation of
the plans and rules, the same shall be removed. (2000 Code §
11-205)
11-206: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to make such rules and
regulations, not in conflict with the provisions hereof, as shall be deemed
necessary for the control and improvement of the city cemeteries, and all such
rules and regulations shall govern all cemetery matters. (2000 Code §
11-206)
11-207: TRASH AND REFUSE:
No person, firm or corporation shall place or deposit any trash or refuse in
any of the streets or walks or elsewhere in the city cemeteries. (2000 Code §
11-207)
11-208: FIRES:
No person, firm or corporation shall build any fire in the city cemeteries,
except as authorized by the cemetery sexton. No person, firm or corporation
shall leave any fire burning in the city cemeteries without leaving some person
in charge thereof to see that the same does not spread or damage any property
in the city cemeteries. (2000 Code §
11-208)
11-209: NOT TO BE IN CEMETERIES AT NIGHT:
No person shall be within the city cemeteries during the night, after dark or
before daylight, except upon necessary business connected with the cemeteries
or the burial of some person therein. (2000 Code §
11-209)
CHAPTER 3
STROUD LAKE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
   Article A. General Provisions
11-301: Designation Of City Owned Lakes And Reservoirs
11-302: Throwing Unsanitary Items In Lake Prohibited
11-303: Wading, Swimming In Lake
11-304: Collection And Disposal Of Garbage And Refuse Around Lake
11-305: Burning Of Trash, Brush On Land Around Lake
11-306: Sewage Disposal Facilities On Property Around Lake
   Article B. Boating Regulations
11-310: License To Operate Boats Required
11-311: Fees
11-312: Issuance, Terms And Conditions
11-313: Numbering Of Boats; Renewal
11-314: Revocation
11-315: Restrictions On Operation And Use Of Boats Generally
11-316: Types And Sizes Of Boats Permitted
11-317: Speed Limit For Boats
11-318: Jet Skis; License, Fees
   Article C. Fishing Regulations
11-320: Fishing License Required; Exceptions
11-321: Restrictions Upon Kind And Amount Of Fish Taken
11-322: Nets, Seines Restricted
11-323: Restrictions On Use Of Certain Bait
   Article D. Hunting Regulations
11-340: Hunting License Required
11-341: Permanent Licenses For Residents Sixty Five Years Of Age Or Over
11-342: Fees
11-343: Issuance; Terms And Conditions
11-344: Expiration Of Daily Licenses
11-345: Revocation
11-346: Authority Granted Under Hunting Licenses Generally
11-347: Prohibitions And Restrictions On Hunting Generally
   Article E. Other Regulations
11-350: Camping Fees And Requirements
11-351: Animals
11-352: Alcoholic Beverages And Beer
11-353: Firearms, Weapons And Explosives Prohibited; Exceptions
11-354: Unattended Personal Property
11-355: Closing
   Article F. Penalties For Violation
11-360: Penalty
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
11-301: DESIGNATION OF CITY OWNED LAKES AND RESERVOIRS:
The lake constructed by the city on Salt-Camp Creek is hereby designated and
named "Stroud Municipal Lake", and the police power of the city is hereby
extended to cover such lake. (2000 Code § 11-301)
11-302: THROWING UNSANITARY ITEMS IN LAKE PROHIBITED:
No person shall throw into or permit to enter Stroud Municipal Lake, or place,
throw or deposit upon the lands and premises surrounding such waters, any
unused bait, worms, flesh of animals or other matter subject to putrefaction,
or any human or animal excreta, or any other unsanitary or unsightly thing.
(2000 Code § 11-302)
11-303: WADING, SWIMMING IN LAKE:
   A.   Swimming in Stroud Municipal Lake will only be allowed by those areas
designated as swimming areas. Such areas will be marked by buoy line and
swimming will only be allowed on the beachside of the buoys. Swimming on the
lakeside of the buoys is prohibited.
   B.   Swimming from a boat or entering the water from a boat, except for the
purpose of skiing, sailing, windsurfing or scuba diving is prohibited.
   C.   Scuba diving is permitted in designated areas by written permission of
the city manager or his designee.
   D.   No person shall publicly appear nude or disrobe while in any area of
Stroud Lake.
   E.   All swimming shall be at the swimmer's own risk.
   F.   All children of the age of twelve (12) and younger must be accompanied
by an adult before entering the swimming area.
   G.   No animals will be allowed in the designated swimming area.
   H.   No glass containers are permitted in the swimming area or on the
designated beach area. (2000 Code § 11-303)
11-304: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE AROUND LAKE:
   A.   No person shall throw or place garbage upon the ground or the property
comprising the Stroud Municipal Lake, and all garbage or trash shall be placed
in containers and removed from the premises when the container becomes full.
   B.   The city or its agents and servants shall cause garbage cans to be
placed in all picnic grounds used by the public and all persons using such
picnic grounds shall place all garbage and refuse in such can, and the same
shall be removed and taken care of by the lake caretaker. (2000 Code § 11-304)
11-305: BURNING OF TRASH, BRUSH ON LAND AROUND LAKE:
   A.   No person shall burn any trash or refuse upon the property comprising
the watershed of Stroud Municipal Lake, and owned by the city, unless it is
burned in an incinerator or container to be approved by the lake caretaker.
   B.   No person shall burn grass, brush or other refuse upon the municipal
lake property belonging to the city, without first obtaining permission to do
so from the lake caretaker. No person shall burn grass or other rubbish around
any cabin site or upon any property under lease by the city to such person,
without first notifying the lake caretaker of his intention to do so, and
obtaining permission for the same from the caretaker. Any person desiring to
burn such grass or brush shall notify the caretaker of the same and it shall be
the duty of the caretaker to supervise such burning and no fire shall be
started except under the supervision of the lake caretaker. (2000 Code § 11-
305)
11-306: SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES ON PROPERTY AROUND LAKE:
   A.   All privies located on property owned by the city comprising the
watershed of Stroud Municipal Lake, whether located on property leased by the
city to cabin owners or otherwise, shall be located at least one hundred fifty
feet (150') from the high water mark on such lake. In the event that a tract of
land that has been leased by the city for cabin and recreational purposes is
not of sufficient size to place such privy one hundred fifty feet (150') from
the high water mark of such lake, then the same shall be placed upon the rear
of such tract as far distant from such high water mark as possible. All cabin
owners shall erect privies on their premises.
   B.   All such privies shall be pit tight privies, and the pit shall be of
concrete with six inch (6") walls. The bottom of such pit shall be three feet
(3') square and five feet (5') in depth. Such pit shall be covered by a
reinforced concrete slab four inches (4") thick and four feet (4') square, with
an appropriate riser for a seat. The seat shall be covered with a flytight lid
and shall remain closed when not in use. Such pit shall be constructed so as to
be flytight and the joints between the slab and the pit walls shall be kept
covered with cement or dirt at all times. All privy pits shall be cleaned out
when the same become filled to a point within eighteen inches (18") of the top
of the pit.
   C.   Septic tanks may be constructed upon such premises, but the same shall
be constructed to conform to and meet all requirements set forth in the state
department of health, form no. 600, a copy of which is on file with the city
clerk. Such septic tanks and tile fields shall be located the same distance
from the high water mark as outdoor privies, as required in this section. (2000
Code § 11-306)
ARTICLE B. BOATING REGULATIONS
11-310: LICENSE TO OPERATE BOATS REQUIRED:
No person shall operate any boat in or upon any of the water of Stroud
Municipal Lake, or any tributary or arm thereof, without first obtaining a
license from the city therefor, and then only in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. (2000 Code § 11-310)
11-311: FEES:
Any person may obtain a license for the use of a rowboat, sailboat or motorboat
upon Stroud Municipal Lake, upon application to the city clerk or such other
person as may be designated by the city council to issue the same, and upon the
payment of the sum as set by the council by motion or resolution for an annual
license or for a daily license fee. The council may also provide that residents
over sixty five (65) years of age have separate fee requirements. (2000 Code §
11-311)
11-312: ISSUANCE, TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall bear the date of
issuance and the date of expiration. All annual licenses shall expire on
December 31 of each calendar year, and all daily licenses shall expire at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the date of issuance.
   B.   All licenses shall be issued on forms provided by the city clerk and
approved by the city council and shall be nontransferable.
   C.   Each person holding a license for boating upon Stroud Municipal Lake
shall have his license therefor in his immediate possession when so boating,
and shall produce the same for inspection upon demand of any officer,
custodian, patrolman or representative of the city. (2000 Code § 11-312)
11-313: NUMBERING OF BOATS; RENEWAL:
   A.   All boats for which a license has been issued to operate on Stroud
Municipal Lake shall be numbered in the order in which the license is granted,
with numbers beginning at "one" and running numerically for the full number of
boats for which licenses have been issued, and each boat shall be inspected by
the lake patrolman, who shall designate the number of persons allowed in the
boat.
   B.   Any person owning an annual boat license for any calendar year, who
obtains a new annual license for the ensuing year on or before January 10 of
any calendar year, may retain the same number on his boat as of the previous
year, but unless such new annual license is obtained on or before January 10,
such number shall be forfeited and a new number obtained. (2000 Code § 11-313)
11-314: REVOCATION:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall be conditioned upon
the strict observance by the holders and users thereof of the terms of this
chapter and any other ordinances, rules or regulations promulgated by the city
council for the protection of Stroud Municipal Lake from pollution or
contamination, all state sanitary laws and all state and federal game and fish
laws, while upon such water or the premises occupied thereby.
   B.   A violation of such condition shall constitute a violation of this
chapter and the city council, upon conviction of any such holder or user of
such license of such violation, in addition to other penalties for violation of
this chapter, may revoke and cancel the license of such holder, and such
convicted holder or user shall not be eligible for another license until the
city council shall so order. (2000 Code § 11-314)
11-315: RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION AND USE OF BOATS GENERALLY:
   A.   No boat shall be operated or permitted to be used upon the Stroud
Municipal Lake unless such boat is equipped with and contains at least one U.S.
coast guard approved life preserver for each person in such boat. Such life
preserver shall be a standard make and shall be inspected by the caretaker of
such lake. All boats used upon such lake shall likewise be inspected by the
caretaker and no boat or life preserver may be used upon such waters unless the
same is inspected and approved by the caretaker or some other person designated
by the city council to make such inspection.
   B.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) years shall row, sail or
operate any boat upon such lake.
   C.   All boats when not in use shall be fastened securely to the shore by
lock and chain.
   D.   No person operating any boat upon such lake shall throw into or permit
to enter such water any unused bait, worms, flesh of animals or other matter
subject to putrefaction, or any human or animal excreta or other debris or any
other unsanitary or unsightly thing.
   E.   No boat propelled by motor on Stroud Municipal Lake shall pass, with
the motor in operation, nearer than one hundred feet (100') to where any person
is fishing, nor shall such motorboats be operated in any part of such lake that
may be set apart and reserved therefrom from time to time by order of the city
council. Such restricted areas shall be designated by notices posted thereon,
or adjacent thereto. (2000 Code § 11-315)
11-316: TYPES AND SIZES OF BOATS PERMITTED:
   A.   No boat shall be operated or permitted to be used upon Stroud Municipal
Lake in excess of eight feet (8') wide and thirty feet (30') in length, nor
under forty inches (40") wide and twelve feet (12') in length, and no license
shall be issued for any boat in excess or under such dimensions. All metal
boats shall contain at least two (2) air chambers of sufficient size to float
such boat and such air chambers shall be kept in repair so that the same shall
not leak, and no metal boat shall be permitted upon such lake equipped with
good and sufficient air chambers as above provided.
   B.   No houseboat shall be operated or permitted to be used upon such lake
and no license shall be issued for the same, and no boat of any kind or
character shall be operated or permitted upon such lake if such boat is
equipped with bunks, beds or other living quarters. No persons shall be
permitted to sleep, live or cook in any boat operated upon the waters of such
lake. (2000 Code § 11-316)
11-317: SPEED LIMIT FOR BOATS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no boat shall be propelled upon
the waters of Stroud Municipal Lake at a greater speed than forty (40) miles
per hour. (2000 Code § 11-317)
11-318: JET SKIS; LICENSE, FEES:
Jet skis may be licensed to operate on the Stroud Municipal Lake; provided,
that they are licensed, pay fees, and are subject to the same rules and
restrictions with regard to the operating of boats as provided in this article.
(2000 Code § 11-318)
ARTICLE C. FISHING REGULATIONS
11-320: FISHING LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
No person shall fish in any of the waters of Stroud Municipal Lake, or in or
upon any tributary or arm of such lake, without first obtaining a license from
the state therefor, and then only in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. (2000 Code § 11-320)
11-321: RESTRICTIONS UPON KIND AND AMOUNT OF FISH TAKEN:
   A.   No person shall take from the waters of Stroud Municipal Lake any of
the following:
      1.   Largemouth or smallmouth bass under fourteen inches (14") in length;
      2.   Blue cat under ten inches (10") in length; or
      3.   Warmouth, rock bass, yellow or ring perch, bluegill or bream under
six inches (6") in length.
   B.   All of the fish listed in subsection A of this section are hereby
declared to be game fish within the purview of this article, and no persons
fishing under one license shall catch or retain more than fifteen (15) such
fish in one day. Under no circumstances shall a maximum number of game fish
include more than five (5) bass and such maximum catch shall not exceed in any
one day ten (10) pounds and one fish, including game fish and nongame fish.
   C.   No person having a license to fish in Stroud Municipal Lake shall at
any time or in any manner take from the waters of such lake any flathead
catfish. The taking of such catfish at any time or in any manner is prohibited.
   D.   Any person violating this section, upon conviction thereof, shall
forfeit his license to fish in such lake. (2000 Code § 11-321)
11-322: NETS, SEINES RESTRICTED:
No person shall fish in Stroud Municipal Lake, except with a hook and line with
plugs, artificial bait, minnows, flies or similar devices. No trotline, seine,
minnow seine, gun, trap or any kind of snare shall be used to take fish from
such waters. No person shall take or attempt to take fish from such waters by
means of a net, trotline, seine, trap, gun or any explosive, poison, chemical
or other substance placed therein. (2000 Code § 11-322)
11-323: RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF CERTAIN BAIT:
No "game fish", as defined by the laws of the state or this chapter, and no
carp or buffalo, shall be used as bait to fish in Stroud Municipal Lake, and no
person shall turn loose any minnows or other bait fish in such waters. No
person shall keep, place or maintain in such waters any live box or other
receptacle for keeping minnows or other fish alive, except while actually
fishing. (2000 Code § 11-323)
ARTICLE D. HUNTING REGULATIONS
11-340: HUNTING LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall hunt or shoot upon any waters of Stroud Municipal Lake, or in
any tributary or arm thereof, or on the lands owned and controlled by the city
surrounding such waters, without first obtaining a license from the city
therefor, and then only in conformity with the provisions of this article.
(2000 Code § 11-340)
11-341: PERMANENT LICENSES FOR RESIDENTS SIXTY FIVE YEARS OF AGE OR OVER:
   A.   Except as provided in this section, all bona fide residents of the
state who have attained the age of sixty five (65) years shall not be required
to purchase a license under this article from the city to hunt in Stroud
Municipal Lake.
   B.   Any such person shall make application to the city clerk for a
permanent license to hunt in such lake, and upon furnishing to the city clerk
written evidence of the fact that he is over sixty five (65) years of age, he
shall be granted a permanent license to hunt in such lake. (2000 Code § 11-341)
11-342: FEES:
   A.   Any bona fide resident of the county may obtain a license to hunt upon
such waters and the land surrounding the same upon the payment of an annual
license fee as set by the council by motion or resolution.
   B.   Any bona fide resident of the state may obtain a license to hunt upon
the waters or the land owned and controlled by the city surrounding such lake
upon payment of an annual license fee or daily license fee as set by the
council by motion or resolution. No person shall go upon such lake or upon the
land owned by the city surrounding the same for the purpose of hunting without
first having obtained a permit to hunt.
   C.   The issuance of the hunting licenses above enumerated shall entitle the
holder thereof to hunt at such times and in such parts of the lake as may be
designated by the order of the city council from time to time; and provided,
that such applicant shall possess at that time a state hunting license.
   D.   Any person having a state hunting license issued by the state game
department may obtain a permit to hunt ducks, geese or other migratory fowls
upon Stroud Municipal Lake and the land surrounding the same, upon payment of a
fee for a season's license or for any period less than the season as set by the
council by motion or resolution. All of the above permits to be issued by the
city clerk or by the lake patrol officer upon payment of the fee above
described. (2000 Code § 11-342)
11-343: ISSUANCE; TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall bear the date of
issuance and the date of expiration. All annual licenses shall expire on
December 31 of each calendar year, and all daily licenses shall expire at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the date of issuance.
   B.   All licenses shall be issued on forms provided by the city clerk and
approved by the city council and shall be nontransferable.
   C.   Each person holding a license for hunting upon Stroud Municipal Lake
shall have his license therefor in his immediate possession when so hunting,
and shall produce the same for inspection upon demand of any officer,
custodian, patrol officer or representative of the city.
   D.   The city council, by motion or resolution, may direct the nonissuance
of hunting licenses for such periods and at such times at it determines to be
in the best interest of the city. (2000 Code § 11-343)
11-344: EXPIRATION OF DAILY LICENSES:
A daily hunting license issued pursuant to this article shall be good for a
period of twenty four (24) hours from the time of the issuance of such license.
(2000 Code § 11-344)
11-345: REVOCATION:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall be conditioned upon
the strict observance by the holders and users thereof of the terms of this
article and any other ordinances, rules or regulations promulgated by the city
council for the protection of Stroud Municipal Lake from pollution or
contamination, all state sanitary laws and all state and federal game and fish
laws, while upon such waters or the premises occupied thereby.
   B.   A violation of any such condition shall constitute a violation of the
terms of this article, and the city council, upon conviction of any such holder
or user of such license of such violation, in addition to other penalties for
violation of this article, may revoke and cancel the license of such holder,
and such convicted holder or user shall not be eligible for another license
until the city council shall so order. (2000 Code § 11-345)
11-346: AUTHORITY GRANTED UNDER HUNTING LICENSES GENERALLY:
The issuance of a hunting license pursuant to this article shall entitle the
holder thereof to hunt at such times and in such parts of Stroud Municipal
Lake, and the land owned or controlled by the city surrounding such lakes, as
may be designated from time to time by the city council; provided, that such
person shall possess at such time a state hunting license. (2000 Code § 11-346)
11-347: PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON HUNTING GENERALLY:
   A.   The holder of a hunting license under this article shall have the
privilege of hunting for and shooting upon Stroud Municipal Lake, and the land
surrounding the same, any duck, geese and other waterfowl in such places and at
such times as the city council shall from time to time direct. Such areas of
such waters or the lands surrounding the same as may at any time be restricted
against hunting or shooting thereon shall be designated by signs thereon or
adjacent thereto.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this article, no holder of a hunting
license or any other person shall at any time hunt or shoot any game of any
kind upon such waters, or the land surrounding the same, except duck, geese or
other waterfowl, and no holder of a hunting license or any other person shall
use, shoot or discharge upon such waters or the lands surrounding the same any
firearm other than a shotgun and shot used with or fired from such shotgun
shall not be a size larger than number 2. (2000 Code § 11-347)
ARTICLE E. OTHER REGULATIONS
11-350: CAMPING FEES AND REQUIREMENTS:
The city council, by motion or resolution, may set fees and regulations
governing daily and overnight camping around Stroud Municipal Lake and its
grounds. (2000 Code § 11-350)
11-351: ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall bring or allow dogs, cats or other pets or animals into
any area of Stroud Lake unless penned, caged, on a leash under six feet (6') in
length or otherwise physically restrained.
   B.   All animals and pets are prohibited in swimming areas of Stroud Lake.
   C.   Persons bringing or allowing pets in designated public areas shall be
responsible for proper removal and disposal in sanitary facilities of any waste
produced by these animals.
   D.   Ranging, grazing, watering or allowing livestock on Stroud Municipal
Lake lands and waters is prohibited, except where authorized in writing by the
City Manager or his designee.
   E.   Unclaimed or unattended animals are subject to immediate impoundment
and removal in accordance with City ordinances and an impoundment fee levied.
This fee shall be paid before the impounded animal is returned to its owner.
(2000 Code § 11-351)
11-352: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND BEER:
No person shall overtly and publicly consume or display the presence of any
beer or intoxicating liquor in any area of Stroud Municipal Lake, except within
the confines of a camping or picnic area. (2000 Code § 11-352)
11-353: FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The possession of loaded firearms, ammunition, loaded or projectable
firing devices, bows and arrows, crossbows, explosion or explosive devices of
any kind, including fireworks, is prohibited at Stroud Municipal Lake, except
in accordance with 21 Oklahoma Statutes 2011 section 1272, et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 276, 12-13-2012)
   B.   Possession of loaded firearms, ammunition, loaded projectile firing
devices of any kind, including fireworks, is permitted at Stroud Municipal Lake
when:
      1.   Any of the above is in the possession of Federal, State or local law
enforcement officers;
      2.   Any of the above are being used for hunting as permitted with
devices being unloaded when transported to, from or between hunting sites;
      3.   Any of the above being used at authorized shooting ranges;
      4.   Written permission from the City Manager or his designee for use of
any of the above; and (2000 Code § 11-353)
      5.   Provisions of 21 Oklahoma Statutes 2011 section 1272, et seq., as
amended effective November 1, 2012 are complied with by the person in
possession of said firearm. (Ord. 276, 12-13-2012)
11-354: UNATTENDED PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Personal property of any kind shall not be left unattended, stored or
abandoned upon lands and waters of Stroud Municipal Lake. After a period of
twenty four (24) hours, or at any time after posted closure hour in a public
use area, unattended personal property shall be presumed to be abandoned and
may be impounded and stored with a reasonable impoundment fee assessed. Such
fee shall be paid before the impounded property is returned to its owner.
   B.   Personal property placed on public lands or waters adjacent to a
private residence or developments of any private nature for more than twenty
four (24) hours without written permission of the City Manager or his designee
shall be presumed to have been abandoned and acted upon accordingly. (2000 Code
§ 11-354)
11-355: CLOSING:
The City Manager or his designee may close or restrict the use of Stroud
Municipal Lake, or any portion thereof, when necessitated by reason of public
health, public safety, maintenance or other reason in the public interest for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days. (2000 Code § 11-355)
ARTICLE F. PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION
11-360: PENALTY:
Each and every violation of any of the provisions contained in this chapter is
an offense against the City and, upon conviction of such an offense, the
violator will be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this Code. (2000 Code § 11-360)
CHAPTER 4
LIBRARY
SECTION:
11-401: Library Department And Board
11-402: Officers
11-403: Duties
11-401: LIBRARY DEPARTMENT AND BOARD:
There shall be a library department, which shall be under the supervision and
control of a library board of at least five (5) but not more than nine (9)
directors, chosen by the city council from the citizens of the city. Directors
appointed to the library board shall hold office for a term of three (3) years
from May 1 following their appointment and their terms shall be staggered. The
city council may remove any director for misconduct or neglect of duty.
Vacancies in the library board shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments. The city council shall designate the date of termination of each
of such directors and each term will end on May 1 of that year. The members
shall serve without compensation. (2000 Code §
11-401)
11-402: OFFICERS:
Every year at the first meeting of the board after May 1, the board of
directors shall elect a chairperson and vice chairperson from its own
membership, and a secretary who need not be a member of the board. The board
shall determine the time and place of its regular meetings and the city
manager, the chairperson or any three (3) members of the board of directors may
call special meetings of the board. (2000 Code §
11-402)
11-403: DUTIES:
The board shall supervise and control the public library of the city. It may
recommend the appointment or removal of the librarian, but the actual
appointment or removal of the librarian will be made by the city council,
either directly or through its city manager. The board may recommend for
appointment or removal temporary, part time or full time employees, but such
appointment or removal shall be made by the city council acting directly or
through its city manager. The board shall adopt and may change regulations for
the administration and operation of the library and may impose fines or
suitable penalties for loss of or failure to timely return or damage of library
books and materials. The librarian, subject to the authority of the library
board of directors, shall have the supervision and control of the library,
including all personnel thereof. (2000 Code §
11-403)
CHAPTER 5
PENALTY
SECTION:
11-501: Penalty
11-501: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this title
by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to
be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any act required
by any such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when such provision
declares such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section
1-108 of this code. Each day upon which any such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (2000 Code §
11-501)
TITLE 12
PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
12-101: Planning Commission Created
12-101: PLANNING COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a planning commission of the city. The commission shall
be composed of five (5) appointive members, all of whom shall be residents of
the city, nominated by the mayor and appointed by the city council and the
mayor and city manager, who shall be ex officio members of the commission. Each
appointed member shall hold office for a term of two (2) years. The appointed
members of the commission shall be nominated and appointed solely with
reference to their fitness and without reference to party affiliation, and
shall serve without compensation. Members may be removed by the mayor with
approval of the city council only for the good of the service. Vacancies
occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled only
for the unexpired term. Ex officio members shall receive no compensation for
their work on the planning commission. The planning commission shall have such
powers and duties and organization as provided by ordinance and law. (2000 Code
§
12-101)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-201: Zoning Ordinance Adopted
12-201: ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
   A.   An amended zoning ordinance is hereby adopted for the city, which
establishes zoning districts for the properties within the incorporated limits
of the city, and establishes an official zoning map; prescribes limitations on
land use; prescribes the different types of uses permitted in the different
districts established, including agricultural districts, residential districts,
commercial districts, industrial districts and floodplain districts;
prescribing uses to which lands within districts can be utilized; setting forth
requirements, standards and designs for off street parking; containing
regulations on nonconforming structures and uses; providing for the enforcement
of this ordinance; requiring application for zoning clearing permit and setting
forth the fees to be paid for obtaining such permits; establishing a board of
adjustment and prescribing the powers and proceedings before the board;
prescribing the method of making zoning amendments; and defining certain terms
used in such amended zoning ordinance.
   B.   Subsection A of this section contains a condensed gist or summary of
the contents of the city of Stroud amended zoning ordinance, ordinance 105. At
least three (3) copies of such ordinance are on file in the office of the city
clerk at city hall, and are available for public use, inspection and
examination. (2000 Code §
12-201)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-301: Subdivision Regulations Adopted
12-301: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The subdivision regulations prepared by Community Planning Associates, 424
South Cheyenne, Tulsa, Oklahoma, are hereby adopted by reference and will
continue in effect and made a part and parcel hereof. Three (3) copies of the
regulations are on file in the office of the city clerk at city hall, and are
available for public use, inspection and examination. (2000 Code §
12-301)
CHAPTER 4
COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
SECTION:
12-401: Comprehensive Plan Adopted
12-401: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED:
The planning commission has caused to be prepared a proposed plan titled "A
Comprehensive Plan For Stroud, Oklahoma". The plan, having been prepared by
Community Planning Associates, 424 South Cheyenne, Tulsa, Oklahoma, is hereby
adopted by reference and made part and parcel hereof. At least three (3) copies
of such plan are on file in the office of the city clerk at city hall, and are
available for public use, inspection and examination. (2000 Code §
12-401)
CHAPTER 5
AIRPORT ZONING
SECTION:
12-501: Purpose
12-502: Short Title
12-503: Definitions
12-504: Zones
12-505: Height Limitations
12-506: Use Restrictions
12-507: Nonconforming Uses
12-508: Permits
12-509: Enforcement
12-510: Board Of Adjustment
12-511: Appeals
12-512: Judicial Review
12-513: Penalties
12-501: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by 3 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 101 though 115. It is hereby found that an airport hazard
endangers the lives and property of users of Stroud Municipal Airport and of
occupants of land in its vicinity, and also, if of the obstruction type, in
effect reduces the size of the area available for the landing, taking off and
maneuvering of aircrafts, thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of
Stroud Municipal Airport and the public investment therein. Accordingly, it is
declared that:
   A.   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public nuisance
and an injury to the region served by the Stroud Municipal Airport;
   B.   It is necessary in the interest of the public health, public safety and
general welfare that the creation or establishment of airport hazards be
prevented; and
   C.   The prevention of these hazards should be accomplished to the extent
legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without compensation. It
is further declared that both the prevention of the creation or establishment
of airport hazards and the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation or
marking and lighting of existing airport hazards republic purposes for which
political subdivisions may raise and expend public funds and acquire land or
interests in land. (2000 Code §
12-501)
12-502: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the STROUD MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
ZONING ORDINANCE. (2000 Code §
12-502)
12-503: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY OR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: The city manager of the city.
AIRPORT: The Stroud Municipal Airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The established elevation of the highest point on the usable
landing area.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure, tree or use of land which obstructs the airspace
required for or is otherwise hazardous to the flight of aircraft in landing or
taking off at the airport.
AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT: The point established as the approximate geographic
center of the airport landing area and so designated.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board consisting of five (5) members appointed by the
joint airport zoning board of the Stroud Municipal Airport in Lincoln County,
Oklahoma.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level
elevation unless otherwise specified.
INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway equipped or to be equipped with electronic or
visual air navigation aids adequate to permit the landing of aircraft under
restricted visibility conditions.
LANDING AREA: The area of the airport used for the landing, takeoff or taxiing
of aircraft.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any structure, tree or use of land which is lawfully in
existence at the time the regulation is prescribed in the ordinance or an
amendment thereto becomes effective and does not then meet the requirements of
the regulation.
NONINSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway other than an instrument runway.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian, or other representative.
RUNWAY: The paved surface of an airport landing strip.
STRUCTURE: An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without
limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission lines.
TREE: An object of natural growth. (2000 Code §
12-503)
12-504: ZONES:
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which include all of the land lying within the
noninstrument approach zones, transition zones, horizontal zone and conical
zone. Such areas and zones are shown on the Stroud Municipal Airport zoning map
which is attached to ordinance 119, marked exhibit A, and made a part hereof.
The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
   A.   A noninstrument approach zone is established at each end of all
noninstrument runways on Stroud Municipal Airport for noninstrument landings
and takeoffs. The noninstrument approach zone shall have a width of two hundred
fifty feet (250') at a distance of two hundred feet (200') beyond each end of
the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of two thousand two
hundred fifty feet (2,250') at a distance of ten thousand two hundred feet
(10,200') beyond each end of the runway, its centerline being the continuation
of the centerline of the runway;
   B.   Transition zones are established adjacent to each instrument and
noninstrument runway and approach zone as indicated on the zoning map.
Transition zones symmetrically located on either side of runways have variable
widths as shown on the zoning map. Transition zones extend outward from a line
one hundred twenty five feet (125') on either side of the centerline of the
noninstrument runway, for a length of such runway, plus two hundred feet (200')
on each end; and are parallel and level with such runway centerlines. The
transition zones along such runways slope upward and outward one foot (1')
vertically for each seven feet (7') horizontally to the point where they
intersect the surface of the horizontal zone. Further, transition zones are
established adjacent to the noninstrument approach zones for the entire length
of the approach zones. These transition zones have variable widths, as shown on
the zoning map. Such transition zones flare symmetrically with either side of
the runway approach zones from the base of such zones and slope upward and
outward at the rate of one foot (1') vertically for each seven feet (7')
horizontally to the points where they intersect the surfaces of the horizontal
and conical zones;
   C.   A horizontal zone is hereby established as the area within a circle
with its center at the airport reference point and having a radius of five
thousand feet (5,000'); the horizontal zone does not include the noninstrument
approach zones and the transition zones; and
   D.   A conical zone is hereby established as the area that commences at the
periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom a distance of
three thousand feet (3,000'). The conical zone does not include the transition
zones. (2000 Code §
12-504)
12-505: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure or tree
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in any zone created by
this chapter to a height in excess of the height limit herein established for
such zone. Such height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones
in question, as follows:
      1.   Noninstrument approach zones are one foot (1') in height for each
twenty feet (20') in horizontal distance beginning at a point two hundred feet
(200') from and at the elevation of the end of the noninstrument runway and
extending to a point ten thousand two hundred feet (10,200') from the end of
the runway;
      2.   Transition zones are one foot (1') in height for each seven feet
(7') in horizontal distance beginning at any point one hundred twenty five feet
(125') normal to and at the elevation of the centerline of noninstrument
runways extending two hundred feet (200') beyond each end thereof, extending to
a height of one hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation which is
nine hundred feet (900') above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing,
there are established height limits of one foot (1') vertical height for each
seven feet (7') horizontal distance measured from the edges of all approach
zones for the entire length of the approach zones and extending upward and
outward to the points where they intersect the horizontal or conical surfaces;
      3.   Horizontal zone is one hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport
elevation or a height of one thousand fifty feet (1,050') above mean sea level;
and
      4.   Conical zone is one foot (1') in height for each twenty feet (20')
of horizontal distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone,
extending to a height of three hundred feet (300') above the airport elevation.
   B.   Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more
restrictive limitations shall prevail.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the growth,
construction or maintenance of any tree or structure to a height up to fifty
feet (50') above the surface of the land. (2000 Code §
12-505)
12-506: USE RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as to create
electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and
aircraft, make it difficult for fliers to distinguish between airport lights
and others, result in glare in the eyes of fliers using the airport, impaired
visibility in the vicinity of the airport or otherwise endanger the landing,
taking off or maneuvering of aircraft. No oil and gas well shall be drilled
within any zone established by this chapter, except as permitted by the board
of adjustment and under regulations established by such board. (2000 Code §
12-506)
12-507: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   The regulations prescribed by this chapter shall not be construed to
require the removal, lowering, or other changes or alteration of any structure
or trees not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date hereof, or
otherwise interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing
herein contained shall require any change in the construction, alteration or
intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was
begun prior to the effective date hereof, and is diligently prosecuted.
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the owner of any
nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to permit the installation,
operation and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed
necessary by the administrative officer, to indicate to the operators of
aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport hazards.
Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the
expense of the city. (2000 Code §
12-507)
12-508: PERMITS:
   A.   Future Users: Except as specifically provided in this subsection, no
material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure or tree shall
be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established in any zone hereby
created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted. Each
application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is
desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether
the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted. Specific exceptions are as follows:
      1.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and the
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the ground, except when
because of terrain, land contour or topographic features such tree or structure
would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zone;
      2.   In the areas lying within the limits of the noninstrument approach
zones, but at a horizontal distance of not less than two thousand five hundred
feet (2,500') from each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any
tree or structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above
the ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height
limit prescribed for such noninstrument approach zone; and
      3.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree
or structure less than fifty feet (50') of vertical height above the ground,
except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
transition zones.
Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as
permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration or growth of any
structure or tree in excess of any of the height limits established by this
chapter, except as set forth in section
12-505 of this chapter.
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use,
structure or tree to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to
air navigation, than it was on the effective date hereof, or any amendments
thereto, or than it is when the application for the permit is made. Except as
indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the administrative
officer determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been abandoned or
more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed,
no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed
the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   D.   Variances: Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure or permit the growth of any tree, or use his property, not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the
board of adjustment for a variance from such regulations. Such variances shall
be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of
the regulations would result in a practical difficulty of unnecessary hardship
and the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest but will do
substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter.
   E.   Hazard Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted may, if
such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and
be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner
of the structure or tree in question to permit the city at its own expense, to
install, operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to fliers the presence of an airport hazard. (2000 Code §
12-508)
12-509: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the administrative officer to administer and enforce
the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall
be made to the administrative officer upon a form furnished by him.
Applications required by this chapter to be submitted to the administrative
officer shall be promptly considered and granted or denied by him. Applications
for action by the board of adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the
administrative officer. (2000 Code §
12-509)
12-510: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   There is hereby created a board of adjustment to have and exercise the
following powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the administrative officer in the enforcement of this
chapter;
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such board of adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass; and
      3.   To hear and decide specific variances.
   B.   The board of adjustment shall consist of five (5) members appointed by
the joint airport zoning board of the Stroud Municipal Airport, and each shall
serve for a term of three (3) years and until his successor is duly appointed
and qualified. Of the members first appointed, one shall be appointed for a
term of one year, two (2) for a term of two (2) years and two (2) for a term of
three (3) years. Members shall be removable by the appointing authority for
cause, upon written charges, after a public hearing.
   C.   The board of adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and
procedure in harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the board
of adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such other
times as the board of adjustment may determine. The chairperson, or in his
absence the acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All hearings of the board of adjustment shall be public. The
board of adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicting
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
administrative officer, and shall be a public record.
   D.   The board of adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.
   E.   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the board of
adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the administrative officer, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter,
or to effect any variation in this chapter. (2000 Code §
12-510)
12-511: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
administrative officer made in his administration of this chapter, if of the
opinion that a decision of the administrative officer is an improper
application of these regulations, may appeal to the board of adjustment.
   B.   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the board of adjustment, by filing with the
administrative officer a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The
administrative officer shall forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment all
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   C.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the administrative officer certifies to the board of
adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed except by order of the board of adjustment on notice to the agency from
which the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   D.   The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   E.   The board of adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances. (2000 Code §
12-511)
12-512: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the board of
adjustment, may appeal the same, as provided in 3 Oklahoma Statutes sections
101 through 115. (2000 Code §
12-512)
12-513: PENALTIES:
   A.   Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor, and be punishable as
provided in section
1-108 of this code, and each day a violation continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
   B.   In order to prevent, restrain, correct or abate any violation of this
chapter, the enforcement official or body shall institute, under the provisions
of 3 Oklahoma Statutes sections 101 through 115, proceedings for relief by way
of injunction or other necessary relief in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2000 Code §
12-513)
CHAPTER 6
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-601: Statement Of Purpose
12-602: Findings Of Fact
12-603: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-604: Definitions
12-605: Application, Compliance, Interpretation
12-606: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
12-607: Development Permit
12-608: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-609: Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
12-610: Duties And Responsibilities
12-611: Permit Procedures; Approval Or Denial
12-612: Variance Procedures
12-613: General Standards, Flood Hazard Areas
12-614: Specific Standards, Flood Hazard Areas
12-615: Floodways
12-616: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO-AH Zones)
12-617: Standards For Subdivision Proposals, Flood Hazard Areas
12-601: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure the potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (2000 Code § 12-601)
12-602: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (2000 Code § 12-602)
12-603: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations are established to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or cause excessive increases in flood height or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, dredging and other development which may increase
flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
lands. (2000 Code § 12-603)
12-604: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application:
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow patch
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH or VO zone on a city flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, A, A99, VO, V1-30, VE
or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building:
   A.   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B,
C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a building
in zones V1-30, VE or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure
member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means of
pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of the
water; and
   B.   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the
building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case
of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, "elevated building" also
includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter
walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30, VE or V, "elevated building" also
includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building",
even though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the
breakaway walls meet the standards of section 60.3(e)(5) of the national flood
insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM, or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.
"Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of the city, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, the water surface
elevation of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: The zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river, or other watercourse,
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities and port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior;
or
2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's "lowest floor"; provided, that
such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community flood insurance rate map are referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1994, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. The "start of construction"
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION (For Other Than New Construction Or Substantial
Improvements Under The Coastal Barrier Resources Act, Public Law 97-348):
Includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
permit date. The "actual start" means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the constructing of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled or roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure"; provided, that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community floodplain management regulations. A structure or
other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or
other evidence of compliance required is presumed to be in violation until such
time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (2000 Code § 12-604)
12-605: APPLICATION, COMPLIANCE, INTERPRETATION:
   A.   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the city.
   B.   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its
use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   C.   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
   D.   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. (2000 Code § 12-605)
12-606: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood
Insurance Study For Lincoln County", panel 150-A-400457 with accompanying flood
insurance rate maps and flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any
revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter. (2000 Code § 12-606)
12-607: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. (2000 Code § 12-607)
12-608: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (2000 Code § 12-608)
12-609: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The code enforcement officer is hereby appointed the floodplain administrator
to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other
appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program regulations)
pertaining to floodplain management. (2000 Code § 12-609)
12-610: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   B.   Review permit applications to determine whether proposed building sites
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required;
   E.   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed as to
the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for
example, where there appears to be conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions);
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Oklahoma
water resources board prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency management
administration;
   G.   Assure that flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse is maintained;
   H.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
section
12-606 of this chapter, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state or other
source, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   I.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community; and
   J.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the national
flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zones A-30, AE and AH on the community's FIRM which increases
the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1');
provided, that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision
through FEMA. (2000 Code § 12-610)
12-611: PERMIT PROCEDURES; APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions
and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed
structures, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special
flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria contained in this chapter;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with this
chapter.
   B.   Approval or denial of a floodplain permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding or
erosion damage for the proposed use; and
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (2000 Code § 12-611)
12-612: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The appeal board, as established by the city, shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter. It
shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an
error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the floodplain
administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeals board may appeal such
decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in this chapter have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases. Upon
consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this chapter, the
appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it
deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this chapter.
   C.   Prerequisites for granting variances include the following:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances; and
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   D.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   E.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management administration upon request.
   F.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   G.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided, that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in this chapter are met; and
      2.   The structure of other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (2000 Code § 12-612)
12-613: GENERAL STANDARDS, FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and
discharges from the system into floodwaters; and
   G.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (2000 Code § 12-613)
12-614: SPECIFIC STANDARDS, FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in this chapter, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection, as
proposed in this chapter, is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction or substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to one foot
(1') above the base flood level or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
design, specifications and plans for construction and shall certify that the
design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of this certification which
includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain
administrator.
   C.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding, shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters;
   D.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A shall
be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For the
purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored
to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces;
      2.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM on sites:
         a.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         b.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         c.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         d.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is at or above the base flood elevation; and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement;
      3.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1-
30, in this subsection D, be elevated so that either:
         a.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base
flood elevation; or
         b.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of this chapter and the elevation and
anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" in subsection D of this
section.
A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions. (2000 Code §
12-614)
12-615: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in this
chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway, unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practices that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge;
   B.   If the above criteria is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this chapter; and
   C.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the national
flood insurance regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the
adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood
elevations; provided, that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM
and floodway revision through FEMA. (2000 Code § 12-615)
12-616: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO-AH ZONES):
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in this chapter
are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the
community's FIRM, or at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified;
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      1.   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified on the
FIRM, or at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified; or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water with structural components
having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy;
   C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section are satisfied; and
   D.   Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (2000
Code § 12-616)
12-617: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS, FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall be consistent with this chapter.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet development permit
requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage. (2000 Code § 12-617)
CHAPTER 7
NON-STANDARD HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
12-701: Purpose
12-702: Non-Standard Housing Overlay District (NS Overlay District)
12-703: Property
12-704: Further Restrictions
12-701: PURPOSE:
It is the goal of the City of Stroud, Oklahoma to promote and establish
appropriate zoning regulations to promote the growth and development of Stroud,
Oklahoma. (Ord. 371, 3-13-2025)
12-702: NON-STANDARD HOUSING OVERLAY DISTRICT (NS OVERLAY DISTRICT):
   A.   General Description of the Non-Standard Housing (NS) Overlay District:
      1.   The rising costs of homes for single families as well as the need
for downsizing for Senior Citizens has resulted in an affordable housing
crisis.
      2.   The Non-Standard (NS) Overlay District and its regulations may be
applied to property found in specifically designated areas within the city
limits of the City of Stroud.
      3.   The NS Overlay District boundaries will be determined by the Stroud
Planning Commission and approved by the Stroud City Council.
      4.   The NS Overlay District is intended to be an overlay district, and
underlying Zoning will remain in effect except as where noted by the NS Overlay
District Ordinance.
      5.   A House in the NS Overlay District must have an approved Building
Permit before it is installed on the property.
      6.   The purpose of the district is as follows:
         a.   To Promote smaller single family dwelling units.
         (1)   The Non-Standard Overlay District will allow the installation
and dwelling of Single Family homes that meet the Oklahoma Uniform Building
Commission definition of Tiny Homes.
         (2)   Preserve Neighborhoods: To preserve and provide additional
dwelling opportunities for community members who may be facing limited
financial resource difficulties.
         (3)   Strengthen Economic Base: To Strengthen and City's economic base
by allowing tiny, single family dwelling units be used in districts that have a
less dense population base.
         (4)   Ensure Orderly Growth: To ensure the harmonious, orderly, and
efficient growth and development of the City.
   B.   Non-Standard (NS) District Regulations:
      1.   Property located within the NS Overlay District may only be used for
Single Family Residence. There is not a Special Exception for additional uses.
      2.   The minimum Lot Size for a Non-Standard Lot is seven thousand
(7,000) sq ft which is the typical Lot Size in RS-1 (fifty inches (50") by one
hundred and forty inches (140")).
      3.   Only One dwelling unit may be placed per property.
      4.   All Setback requirements for the Underlying Zone must be complied
with.
      5.   There must be a permanently surfaced area of not less than two
hundred (200) sq. ft. for the parking of motor vehicles.
      6.   The NS Overlay District shall allow for Single Wide and Double Wide
Mobile Homes.
      7.   Only new Mobile homes (constructed within the last five (5) years)
maybe placed in the NS Overlay District.
      8.   All Mobile Homes must be tied down and skirted.
      9.   Ordinance 108 (Single Wide Mobile Homes must be placed on Ten (10)
Acres or in Mobile Home Parks) does not apply to the NS Overlay District. (Ord.
371, 3-13-2025)
12-703: PROPERTY:
There is hereby created Section 12-701 new law for the City of Stroud, Oklahoma
an Ordinance pertaining to zoning for the construction of dwelling structures
on the following described property within the city limits of Stroud, Oklahoma,
as follows:
   A.   Lots 1 through 24, inclusive, Block 1, 2, 9 and 10, Southside Addition
to the City Lincoln County, Oklahoma; and, 5,6,7,8, of Stroud;
   B.   Lots 1 through 12, inclusive, Blocks 3, 4, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15,
Southside Addition to the City of Stroud, Lincoln County, Oklahoma; and
   C.   A tract beginning at the NE/c NW/4 NW/4 thence South 333 feet; thence
East 377 feet; thence North 333 feet; thence West 377 feet to the point of
beginning all within Section 34, Township 15 North, Range 6 East of the I. M.,
Lincoln County, Oklahoma. (Ord. 371, 3-13-2025)
12-704: FURTHER RESTRICTIONS:
For further particulars of the parameters of the zoning restrictions , contact
should be had through the City Manager or Code Enforcement officer with regard
to dwellings which may be constructed pursuant to the Non-Standard Housing
Overlay District as approved by the City of Stroud Planning Commission. (Ord.
371, 3-13-2025)
CHAPTER 8
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
Article A. Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Methods
12-801: Statutory Authorization
12-802: Findings Of Fact
12-803: Statement Of Purpose
12-804: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
Article B. Definitions
12-820: Definitions
Article C. General Provisions
12-835: Lands To Which The Ordinance Applies
12-836: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
12-837: Establishment Of Development Permit
12-838: Compliance
12-839: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-840: Interpretation
12-841: Warning And Disclaimer Or Liability
Article D. Administration
12-850: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
12-851: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
12-852: Permit Procedures
12-853: Variance Procedures
Chapter E: Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
12-865: General Standards
12-866: Specific Standards
12-867: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
12-868: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
12-869: Floodways
12-870: Severability
12-871: City Of Stroud Floodplain Management Fee Schedule
12-872: Penalties For Noncompliance
ARTICLE A. STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
12-801: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The Legislature of the State of Oklahoma has in the Oklahoma Floodplain
Management Act, Sections 1601 through 1620.1 of Title 82 of the Oklahoma
Statutes, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Council of
Stroud, Oklahoma, does hereby ordain that these Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinances as set forth herein, including Sections 12.701 through 12.767, and
any lawfully enacted amendments thereto, be hereby enacted and effective on
(date thirty (30) days after adoption). (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-802: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Stroud are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-803: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-804: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances
use the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
ARTICLE B. DEFINITIONS
12-820: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinances shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have
in common usage and to give this ordinance its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY     Structures which are on the same parcel of property as the principle structure
STRUCTURE:    and the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure, but not
              limited to garages and storage sheds.
              Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar landform which
ALLUVIAL FAN  originates at the apex and is characterized by high-velocity flows; active
FLOODING:     processes of erosion, sediment transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow
              paths.
              A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the
APEX:         major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding
              can occur.
AREA OF
FUTURE        The land area that would be inundated by the 1%-annual chance (100 year) flood
CONDITIONS    based on future conditions hydrology.
FLOOD HAZARD:
              A designated AO, AH, AR/ AO, AR/ AH, or VO zone on a community's Flood Insurance
AREA OF       Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to
SHALLOW       an average depth of one to three feet (1' - 3') where a clearly defined channel
FLOODING.     does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity
              flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
              Is the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
AREA OF       greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as Zone
SPECIAL FLOOD A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed rate making has been
HAZARD        completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined
              into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A,
              VO, V1-30, VE or V.
BASE FLOOD:   The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
              given year.
              The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and found in the
BASE FLOOD    accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for zones A, AE, AH, A1-30 and AR that
ELEVATION:    indicates the water surface elevation resulting from the flood that has a one
              percent (1%) chance of equaling or exceeding in any given year - also called the
              base flood.
BASEMENT:     Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
              sides.
              Wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended
BREAKAWAY     through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading
WALL:         forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or
              supporting foundation system.
CRITICAL      An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood protection system, without
FEATURE:      which the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.
              Any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not
DEVELOPMENT:  limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
              paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
ELEVATED      For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which has its lowest elevated
BUILDING:     floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
              pilings, or columns.
              For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the "start of
EXISTING      construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January
CONSTRUCTION: 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also
              be referred to as "existing structures."
              A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
EXISTING      for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
MANUFACTURED  (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
HOME PARK OR  streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
SUBDIVISION:  completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
              adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO  The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
AN EXISTING   servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
MANUFACTURED  the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR  grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
FLOOD DAMAGE  Sections 12-801 through 12-867, and any lawfully enacted amendments or revisions
PREVENTION    thereto.
ORDINANCES:
FLOOD         An examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if
ELEVATION     appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination,
STUDY:        evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/ or flood-related
              erosion hazards.
FLOOD         An official map of a community, on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency
INSURANCE     has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones
RATE MAP      applicable to the community.
(FIRM):
FLOOD
INSURANCE     See Flood Elevation Study.
STUDY (FIS):
              A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
FLOOD OR      dry land areas from:
FLOODING:     A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.    
              B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
              source.   
              Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
FLOOD         adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate
PROOFING:     or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
              contents.
              Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized,
              appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify
FLOOD         flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to
PROTECTION    a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated flooding.
SYSTEM:       Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs,
              levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those constructed in
              conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN    The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:   reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
              flood control works and floodplain management regulations.
              Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN    special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and
MANAGEMENT    erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term
REGULATIONS:  describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which
              provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR Amysland area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
FLOOD-PRONE   definition of flooding).
AREA:
FLOODWAY:     See Regulatory Floodway.
              A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried
FUNCTIONALLY  out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port
DEPENDENT     facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
USE:          passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities, but does not include
              long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.
HIGHEST       The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to
ADJACENT      the proposed walls of a structure.
GRADE:
              Any structure that is:    
              A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
              maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
              Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
              the National Register;
              B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
              contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or
              a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC      historic district;
STRUCTURE:    C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
              historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the
              Interior; or
              D.   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in communities
              with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
                 1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
              Interior or;
                 2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior m states without approved
              programs.
              A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
LEVEE:        accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
              flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
              A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
LEVEE SYSTEM: structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and
              operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
              The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
              or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking or vehicles, building
LOWEST FLOOR: access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a
              building's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is not built so as to
              render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
              requirement of Section 60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
              A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent
MANUFACTURED  chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when
HOME:         connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not
              include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more
HOME PARK OR  manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
              For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the National Geodetic
MEAN SEA      Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
LEVEL:        1988, to which base flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate
              Map are referenced.
              For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures for which the "start
              of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or
NEW           after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
CONSTRUCTION: improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes, "new
              construction" means structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
              or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a
              community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
              A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
NEW           for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
MANUFACTURED  (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
HOME PARK OR  streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
SUBDIVISION:  completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
              adopted by a community.
              A vehicle which is:
              A.   Built on a single chassis;
              B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
              horizontal projections;
              C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
              and
RECREATIONAL  D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
VEHICLE:      living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
              B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
              horizontal projections;
              C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
              and
              D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
              living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY    The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
FLOODWAY:     be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
              the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
RIVERINE:     Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream,
              brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD See Area of Special Flood Hazard.
HAZARD AREA:
              (For other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal
              Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)), includes substantial improvement and
              means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
              construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or
              other improvement was within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the permit
              date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction
              of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
              installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage
START OF      of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
CONSTRUCTION: Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
              grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
              walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
              foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
              installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not
              occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
              improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
              wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that
              alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
              For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, including a gas
STRUCTURE:    or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a
              manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
DAMAGE:       structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent
              (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
              Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a
              structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market
              value of the structure before "start of construction" of the improvement. This
              term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of
SUBSTANTIAL   the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
IMPROVEMENT:  A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
              state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
              identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
              necessary to assure safe living conditions or
              B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will
              not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure."
              A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain management
VARIANCE:     regulation. (For full requirements see Section 60.6 of the National Flood
              Insurance Program regulations.)
              The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
              community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development
VIOLATION:    without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of
              compliance required in Section 60.3 (b(5), (c)(4), (c)(10) or (d)(3)) is presumed
              to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE The height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or
ELEVATION:    the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, of floods of various magnitudes
              and frequencies in floodplains. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
 
ARTICLE C. GENERAL PROVISIONS
12-835: LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES:
These Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances shall apply to all areas of special
flood hazard with the jurisdiction of Stroud, Oklahoma. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-836: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
"The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Lincoln County, Oklahoma & Incorporated
Areas" dated September 7, 2023, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRM) dated September 7, 2023 are hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-837: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-838: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-839: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
These Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances are not intended to repeal, abrogate,
or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However,
where these ordinances and other ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-840: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of these Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinances, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State
statutes. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-841: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by these Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinances is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can
and will occur and flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural
causes. These Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances do not imply that land outside
the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be
free from flooding or flood damages. These Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 367,
10-3-2023)
ARTICLE D. ADMINISTRATION
12-850: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Certified Floodplain Manager is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of these Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinances and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (Emergency
Management and Assistance - National Flood Insurance Program Regulations)
pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-851: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but
not
be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Review permit applications to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site projects, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances.
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   E.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Oklahoma
Water Resources Board prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
Chapter C, Section
12-836, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
Federal, State or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
Chapter
   I.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
   J.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'), provided
that the community first completes all of the provisions required by Section
65.12.
   K.   Become accredited by the OWRB in accordance with Title 82 O.S. §§ 1601-
1620, as amended.
   L.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the community of Stroud, Oklahoma, determine if the residential and
nonresidential structures and manufactured homes have been substantially
damaged, and enforce the substantial improvement requirement.
   M.   Maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal from a decision of
the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-852: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a Floodplain Development Permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of Chapter E, Section
12-866 B.;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with Chapter
4, Section
12-851 A.;
   B.   Approval or denial of a Floodplain Development Permit by the Flooplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this ordinance and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-853: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of these Flood
Damage Prevention Ordinances.
   B.   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section
12-852 B. of this Chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing
the variance increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of these
Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances. as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives of these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances (Article A., Section
12-803).
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in Article D., Section
12-853 A.- L. are met; and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
ARTICLE E. PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
12-865: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for
all
new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   G.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-866: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in Article C, Section
12-836; Article D, Section
12-851 H.; or Article E, Section
12-867 C., the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction - new construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated at or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in
Article D., Section
12-852 A.1. is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction - new construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at or above
the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/ or review structural design, specifications,
and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods
of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as
outlined in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   C.   Enclosures - new construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings on separate walls having a total net
area of not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      2.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites (i)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured
home park or subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a
result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such bottom of the I-
beam of the manufactured home is elevated at or above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to
applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
The home shall be installed by a licensed installer according to Oklahoma state
law and compliance herewith shall be certified in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator by said installer prior to habitation of the manufactured home.
      3.   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
paragraph (4) of this section be elevated on a permanent foundation such that
the bottom of the I-beam of the manufactured home is elevated at or above the
base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles - Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE on the Community name FIRM either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred and eighty (180)
consecutive days;
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of Article D., Section
12-867, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes"
in paragraph D. of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   F.   Accessory Structure - Accessory structures to be placed on sites within
Zones A and AE on the City of Stroud FIRM shall comply with the following:
      1.   The structure shall be used only for parking and limited storage;
      2.   The structure shall not be used for human habitation. Prohibited
activities or uses include but are not limited to working, sleeping, living,
cooking, or restroom use;
      3.   The structure shall be unfinished on the interior.
      4.   Structures shall be small in size, not exceed six hundred (600)
square feet in size.
      5.   Structures exceeding six hundred (600) square feet in size will be
required to meet all applicable standards of Article C, Section
12-837; Article D., Section
12-868; Article E, Sections 7-765 and 7-766, including relevant subsections.
   F.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE plus one foot (1') Freeboard;
   G.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site so
as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   H.   The structure shall be considered low in value, designed to have low
flood damage potential and constructed with flood resistance materials;
   I.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement;
   J.   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the structure;
   K.   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE; and be placed on opposing walls with the net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of the size of the
footprint of the structure (Flood Vents);
   L.   The Openings (Flood Vents) shall be located no higher than one foot
(1') above grade;
   M.   The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-867: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with Article A., Sections
12-801,
12-803, and 12-804 of these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Floodplain
Development Permit requirements of Article C, Section
12-837; Article D., Section
12-852; and the provisions of Article E of these Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinances.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to Article C., Section
12-836 or Article D., Section
12-851 H. of these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-868: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in Article C,
Section
12-836, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with flood depths of one to three feet (1' - 3') where
a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at or above the
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two feet (2')
if no depth number is specified).
   B.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures;
      1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at or above the
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two feet (2')
if no depth number is specified), or
      2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below the Base
Flood Elevation in an AH Zone, level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   C.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
Section, as proposed in Article D, Section 12-852 are satisfied.
   D.   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-869: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways - located within areas of special flood hazard established in
Division C, Section
12-836, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If Chapter, Section
12-869 A. above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Division
E.
   C.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may permit
encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first completes
all of the provisions required by Section 65.12. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-870: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of these Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinances are held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way affect the validity of the
remaining portions of these Flood Damage Prevention Ordinances. (Ord. 367, 10-
3-2023)
12-871: CITY OF STROUD FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT FEE SCHEDULE:
The Stroud City Council establishes the following fee schedule not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one service:
 
A. Notice of Intent Fee:                             $25.00 maximum
B. Floodplain Development Permit Application Review: $100.00
C. Floodplain Development Permit Fee:                $25.00
D. Inspection Fee-per inspection:                    $25.00
E. Variance Request Filing Fee:                      $25.00
 
(Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
12-872: PENALTIES FOR NON COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this court
order and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this
court order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court
order or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for
not more than one (1) year, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall
prevent the City of Stroud from taking such other lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation. It is hereby found and declared by Stroud
that severe flooding has occurred in the past within its jurisdiction and will
certainly occur within the future; that flooding is likely to result in
infliction of serious personal injruy or death, and is likely to result in
substantial irtjury or destruction of property within its jurisdiction; in
order to effectively comply with minimum standards for coverage under the
National Flood Insurance Program, and in order to effectively remedy the
situation described herein, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this
chapter, being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health and safety, shall be in full force and effect and after its passage and
approval. (Ord. 367, 10-3-2023)
TITLE 13
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PREVENTION
SECTION:
13-101: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
13-102: Fire Prevention Bureau
13-103: Definitions
13-104: Limits Within Which Storage Of Flammable Liquids In Outside Aboveground
Tanks Is Prohibited
13-105: Limits In Which Storage Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases Is To Be
Restricted
13-106: Limits In Which Storage Of Explosives And Blasting Agents Are
Prohibited
13-107: Amendments
13-108: Penalties
13-101: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion,
that certain code known as the BOCA national fire prevention code, including
appendix chapters A and B, published by the Building Officials And Code
Administrators International, Inc., being particularly the 1987 edition thereof
and whole thereof; save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended by this code. Not less than one copy of the fire prevention
code has been and now is filed in the office of the city clerk. The fire
prevention code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlled within the legal geographic boundaries
of the city. (2000 Code §
13-101)
13-102: FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU:
   A.   The BOCA national fire prevention code shall be enforced by the fire
prevention bureau in the fire department of the city, which is hereby
established and which shall operate under the supervision of the chief of the
fire department.
   B.   The chief of the fire prevention bureau (fire marshal) shall be
appointed by the chief of the fire department on the basis of examination to
determine his qualifications.
   C.   The chief of the fire department may detail such members of the fire
department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The chief of
the fire department shall recommend to the fire marshal the employment of
technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall be selected
through an examination to determine their fitness for the positions. The
examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the fire department, and
appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with
removal only for cause. (2000 Code §
13-102)
13-103: DEFINITIONS:
CHIEF OF THE FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU: The fire marshal.
JURISDICTION: As used in the fire prevention code, means this city. (2000 Code
§
13-103)
13-104: LIMITS WITHIN WHICH STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND
TANKS IS PROHIBITED:
The limits referred to the fire prevention code, in which storage of flammable
or combustible liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, shall be as
specified in section
5-503 et seq., of this code. (2000 Code §
13-104)
13-105: LIMITS IN WHICH STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES IS TO BE
RESTRICTED:
The limits referred to in section F3000.1 of the fire prevention code, in which
bulk storage of liquefied petroleum is restricted, shall be as provided in
sections
5-501 through
5-505 of this code. (2000 Code §
13-105)
13-106: LIMITS IN WHICH STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS ARE
PROHIBITED:
The limits referred to in section F-2601.2 of the fire prevention code, in
which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, shall be as
follows:
The storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited within the
corporate limits of the city as established by law except for temporary storage
for use in connection with approved blasting operations. However, this
prohibition shall not apply to wholesale and retail stocks of small arms
ammunition, explosive bolts, explosive rivet or cartridges for explosive
actuated power tools in quantities involving less than five hundred (500)
pounds (227 kg) of explosive material. (2000 Code §
13-106)
13-107: AMENDMENTS:
The fire prevention code is amended and changed in the following respect:
These regulations as set forth herein shall be known as the fire prevention
code of the city and are herein referred to as "this code".
(2000 Code §
13-107)
13-108: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the fire prevention
code hereby adopted or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or fails to
comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the city council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within
the time fixed therein, shall severally for every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of an offense, punishable by a fine as
provided in section
1-108 of this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. When not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (2000 Code §
13-108)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT AND SERVICE
SECTION:
   Article A. Fire Department
13-201: Fire Department Created
13-202: Officers
13-203: Membership
13-204: Equipment And Use
13-205: Other Provisions Relating To Firefighters And The Department
13-206: Enforcement And Penalty
13-207: False Alarm
   Article B. Volunteer Fire Department
13-220: Volunteer Fire Department Established
13-221: Duties Of The Fire Chief
13-222: Duties Of The Assistant Chief
13-223: Company Officers
13-224: Secretary-Treasurer
13-225: New Members
13-226: Bylaws
13-227: Meetings
13-228: Rules And Regulations
13-229: Fire And Emergency Runs
   Article C. Calls Outside Limits
13-240: Authority For Firefighting Outside City Limits
13-241: Fee For Service
13-242: Officers Retain Regular Status
13-243: Service As Agent Of State, Immunity
   Article D. Hazardous Materials Services
13-250: Authority For Contracting Licensed Hazardous Materials Team
13-251: Responsibility For Cost Of HAZMAT Team
ARTICLE A. FIRE DEPARTMENT
13-201: FIRE DEPARTMENT CREATED:
The fire department of the city is hereby created. The purpose of the fire
department is the prevention of fire and the protection of life and property
within the city. (2000 Code § 13-201)
13-202: OFFICERS:
   A.   The fire department shall consist of a chief, two (2) assistant chiefs
and other officers as the chief and city manager may deem necessary for the
effective operation of the department.
   B.   The members of the fire department shall by popular vote select one of
their members whom they desire to serve as their chief and recommend such
person to the city manager for appointment as chief of the fire department. The
city manager shall either approve or disapprove of the person nominated and, if
approved, shall appoint such person as fire chief. If disapproved the manager
shall so notify the fire department membership of his disapproval and the
members of the fire department shall thereafter select some other person to be
appointed chief. Such procedure shall be continued until some person acceptable
to the city manager is recommended as fire chief by the members of the fire
department. Upon approval of such person, the city manager shall appoint that
person to serve as fire chief and the tenure of the chief shall be for an
indefinite period of time and shall depend upon his good conduct and
efficiency.
   C.   The chief shall be technically qualified by training and experience and
shall have the ability to command firefighters and hold their respect and
confidence. The city manager may remove the fire chief from his office. Upon
vote of the members of the fire department for removal of the chief, the city
manager must remove the fire chief from his office.
   D.   The chief shall be held accountable to the city manager only, and shall
make written and verbal reports thereto as the city manager may require. All
other department and company officers shall be accountable to the chief only.
   E.   The assistant chiefs and all other department and company officers
shall be nominated for their office by vote of the membership of the fire
department and shall be appointed by the chief of the fire department after
being nominated for such office by the membership of the fire department. Such
officers shall be accountable only to the chief and subject to removal by him.
(2000 Code § 13-202)
13-203: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The membership of the department shall consist of such persons as may
be recommended by the fire department members. Such recommendation shall be
submitted to the city manager for approval and appointment. The city manager
shall either approve or disapprove of such recommendation, and if approved,
shall appoint such person a member of the fire department, and if disapproved,
shall notify the membership of the fire department, who shall then recommend
some other person. Any member hereafter appointed shall be qualified persons
residing and working within an eight (8) mile radius of the fire station, who
have telephones in their homes, and are at least twenty one (21) years of age
at the time of appointment. Determination of whether candidates for appointment
are physically qualified shall be made by the chief after a medical and
physical examination has been made in a manner prescribed by the chief and
approved by the city manager. (Ord. 186, 9-12-2002)
   B.   Any member of the department may be suspended or discharged from the
department by the chief at any time he may deem such action necessary for the
good of the department. On written request of such member to the city council,
he shall be given a public hearing on the charges brought by the chief. (2000
Code § 13-203)
13-204: EQUIPMENT AND USE:
   A.   The department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other
equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire. Recommendations of apparatus and
equipment needed shall be made by the chief, and after approval by the city
manager, shall be purchased in such manner as may be designated by the city
manager. All equipment of the department shall be safely and conveniently
housed in such places as may be designated by the city manager. Such places
shall be heated during the winter season if any equipment is subject to damage
by freezing. Suitable arrangements or equipment shall be provided for citizens
to turn in an alarm, and for notifying all members of the department so that
they may promptly respond.
   B.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the department. No person shall enter
any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment
belonging to the department unless accompanied by, or having the special
permission of, an officer or authorized member of the department. No apparatus
shall be hired out or permitted to leave the city limits except in response to
a call for aid at a fire in a neighboring community or within a radius of eight
(8) miles of the city without the consent of the city manager. The officer in
charge of the department shall have power to assign equipment for response to
calls for outside aid in accordance with this chapter and in other cases only
when the absence of such equipment will not jeopardize protection in the city
limits. (2000 Code § 13-204)
13-205: OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO FIREFIGHTERS AND THE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Each member of the department is hereby authorized to wear a badge
designating his name and rank.
   B.   Each member of the department driving a car shall be issued a suitable
insignia to be attached to the car, and is authorized to equip his car with a
siren for use when responding to an alarm.
   C.   The fire department shall adopt new methods of operation from time to
time to conform with generally recognized modern practices. (2000 Code § 13-
205)
13-206: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   B.   All regularly appointed members of the department are hereby given the
necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter.
   C.   It is hereby made the special duty of the chief of police or other
peace officers, who may be on duty and available for fire duty, to respond to
all fire alarms and assist the department in the protection of life and
property, in regulating traffic, maintaining order and in enforcing observance
of all sections of this chapter. (2000 Code § 13-206)
13-207: FALSE ALARM:
No person may maliciously turn in or cause to be turned in a false fire alarm.
(2000 Code § 13-207)
ARTICLE B. VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
13-220: VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The fire department of the city is a volunteer fire department, which
is comprised of not less than twelve (12) nor more than twenty (20) volunteer
firefighters.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, a volunteer firefighter shall be
considered as one who is enrolled as a member of the fire department and who
serves in that capacity without receiving a regular salary. (2000 Code § 13-
220)
13-221: DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF:
The chief shall be at the head of the department, subject to the laws of the
state, ordinances of the city, and the rules and regulations adopted in this
chapter. The chief shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   The chief shall be responsible for the general condition and efficient
operation of the department, the training of members, and the performance of
all other duties imposed upon him;
   B.   The chief may inspect or cause to be inspected by members of the
department, the fire hydrants, cistern and other sources of water supply at
least twice each year;
   C.   The chief shall maintain a library or file of publications on fire
prevention and fire protection and shall make use of it to the best advantage
of all members;
   D.   The chief shall make every effort to attend all fires and direct the
officers and members in the performance of their duties;
   E.   The chief shall see that the citizens are kept informed on fire hazards
in the community and on the activities of the department;
   F.   The chief shall see that each fire is carefully investigated to
determine its cause, and in the case of suspicion of incendiarism shall notify
proper authorities and secure and preserve all possible evidence for future use
in the case;
   G.   The chief is authorized to enter any building or premises in the city
at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to serve
written notice to any owner or occupant to abate, within a certain period of
time, any fire hazards that may be found; and
   H.   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information of the
department and shall make reports to the city manager as he may require. (2000
Code § 13-221)
13-222: DUTIES OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF:
In the absence of the chief, the assistant chief on duty shall command the
department and be held responsible therefor in all respects with the full
powers and responsibilities of the chief. The assistant chief shall be elected
from among the members of the fire department. (2000 Code § 13-222)
13-223: COMPANY OFFICERS:
Company officers shall be selected by the chief based upon the following
criteria:
   A.   Knowledge of firefighting;
   B.   Leadership ability;
   C.   Knowledge of firefighting equipment. (2000 Code § 13-223)
13-224: SECRETARY-TREASURER:
One member elected by the members of the fire department shall be a secretary-
treasurer. His duties shall consist of the following:
   A.   Calling the roll at the opening of each meeting;
   B.   Keeping the minutes of each meeting;
   C.   Collecting any money due the department by the members. (2000 Code §
13-224)
13-225: NEW MEMBERS:
New members of the department shall be appointed by the chief and shall be on
probation for one year after their appointment. Upon completion of their
probation period, new members must be approved by the majority of the other
members of the fire department. (2000 Code § 13-225)
13-226: BYLAWS:
The bylaws of the department shall include the following:
   A.   All volunteer fire department members are required, when notified, to
respond to alarms of fire and other emergencies.
   B.   A member is required to be present at all regular meetings, called
meetings and schools presented for the benefit of the firefighters.
   C.   Any member having two (2) unexcused absences in succession or three (3)
unexcused absences in a period of three (3) months will be dropped from the
fire department rolls.
   D.   A member may not exceed three (3) excused absences per quarter:
      1.   In order for an absence to be excused, the firefighter must notify
the police department dispatcher and request notification of the members;
      2.   An excused absence can be made up before the next scheduled meeting
by accepting a work assignment from the chief or one of the chief's designees.
   E.   Any member leaving the city for a period of over thirty (30) days is
required to notify the chief.
   F.   Any member refusing to attend mandatory training hours will be subject
to dismissal from the department. If the member is unable to attend training
sponsored by our department, the same or similar training within a reasonable
time and from a qualified source will be accepted.
   G.   Any member of the fire department may be dropped from the rolls for the
following offenses:
      1.   Conduct unbecoming a firefighter;
      2.   Any act of insubordination;
      3.   Neglect of duty;
      4.   Any violation of rules and regulations governing the fire
department;
      5.   Conviction of a felony; or
      6.   By majority vote of the members of the company and approval of the
city council. (Ord. 199, 1-13-2005)
13-227: MEETINGS:
The regular department meetings shall be held the first and third Tuesday of
every month, or as required to meet the needs of the department. (Ord. 199, 1-
13-2005)
13-228: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council, by motion or resolution, may adopt and change regulations
relating to the fire department, its organization, operation and compensation.
(2000 Code § 13-228)
13-229: FIRE AND EMERGENCY RUNS:
   A.   All firefighters making a fire run will report back to the fire station
and sign the register there for that purpose and all firefighters are to help
service the fire equipment in readiness for the next run;
   B.   Any member not responding to at least thirty five percent (35%) of the
paged fire runs will be subject to dismissal from the department. The thirty
five percent (35%) will be based on the department's calendar year, which
starts on November 1 and ends on October 31.
   C.   These bylaws shall be considered amended to comply with any amendment
to any statute or law hereinafter enacted. (Ord. 199, 1-13-2005)
ARTICLE C. CALLS OUTSIDE LIMITS
13-240: AUTHORITY FOR FIREFIGHTING OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
The city is hereby authorized and empowered to provide fire protection outside
the corporate limits of the city within an area hereinafter referred to. The
fire department of the city is hereby authorized and directed to answer all
outside calls within a distance of five (5) miles from the nearest fire
station, and such further distance as has been approved by prior action of the
council or as may be hereafter approved by the city manager, unless in the
opinion of the fire chief it is inexpedient to do so on account of another fire
in the city, broken apparatus, impassable or dangerous highways, or other
physical conditions. (2000 Code § 13-240)
13-241: FEE FOR SERVICE:
Any service rendered by the city to an individual owner, firm, private
corporation or association for outside aid, or mutual aid for fire protection,
will be billed to such entity by the city for such fire apparatus and rescue
equipment and personnel at the following rates:
First hour, or part thereof, three hundred dollars ($300.00) and any hours
beyond the first hour will be at one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per hour
per unit involved in such fire or rescue operation.
All monies received from the calls shall go into the city general fund to be
used for firefighting and fire protection services. Such charges shall be
billed to the owner and/or lessee of the property whose property is being
protected from fire or who caused the incident which required the rescue unit.
If such owner or lessee is a member of the Stroud Rural Fire Association, then
the billing shall be made to the association and, if paid by the association,
no further charge will be made against the entity. However, if the association
does not make payment on behalf of such entity, then such entity is liable for
such charges. The charges for such to the Stroud Rural Fire Association and the
members thereof shall be on the following basis:
First hour, three hundred dollars ($300.00); any additional hours, three
hundred dollars ($300.00); total charge six hundred dollars ($600.00).
Any fees above set forth may be changed by resolution or motion of the city
council.
If either the fire or rescue equipment is called to the fire or other
emergencies by the Oklahoma highway patrolmen and the charge is not paid by
others, then the Oklahoma department of transportation will be billed. (Ord.
199, 1-13-2005)
13-242: OFFICERS RETAIN REGULAR STATUS:
All firefighters of the city attending and serving at fires or doing fire
prevention work outside the corporate limits of the city, as herein provided,
shall be considered as serving in their regular line of duty as fully as if
they were serving within the corporate limits of the city. The firefighters
shall be entitled to all the benefits of any fire pensions and relief fund in
the same manner as if the firefighting or fire prevention work was being done
within the corporate limits of the city. (2000 Code § 13-242)
13-243: SERVICE AS AGENT OF STATE, IMMUNITY:
The fire department answering any fire alarm, or call, or performing any fire
prevention services outside the corporate limits of the city, shall be
considered as an agent of the state and acting solely and alone in a
governmental capacity. The municipality shall not be liable in damages for any
act of commission, omission or negligence while answering or returning from any
fire, or reported fire, or doing any fire prevention work under and by virtue
of this chapter. (2000 Code § 13-243)
ARTICLE D. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SERVICES
13-250: AUTHORITY FOR CONTRACTING LICENSED HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TEAM:
The following procedures apply for contracting licensed hazardous materials
team:
   A.   The fire chief, or in his absence, the assistant fire chief on duty, or
in the case of all their absences, the city manager, are authorized to contract
the services of a licensed hazardous materials team to render any or all of
their range of services during an emergency situation when hazardous materials
or chemicals are involved and when the fire department is the designated
primary response department. HAZMAT team call out will be upon on site
inspection of the situation;
   B.   Upon arrival of the hazardous materials team, the fire department will
relinquish primary operation responsibility to the HAZMAT team;
   C.   Following the actual request for HAZMAT services, under no
circumstances should a member of the fire department or any employee of the
city assist in actual HAZMAT operations prior to or following arrival of the
HAZMAT team, other than for area evacuation or traffic control if necessary;
and
   D.   The fire chief will cause to have investigated by the proper authority
all hazardous materials/chemical related incidents that require the services of
a licensed HAZMAT team and any more minor incidents of this kind in which there
arises questions or suspicions of wrongdoing. (2000 Code § 13-250)
13-251: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COST OF HAZMAT TEAM:
The following apply to responsibility for costs:
   A.   Under no circumstances will any member of the fire department or any
employee of the city sanction, or any way recognize, for contractual purposes,
by other than those persons described in this article;
   B.   The individual, corporation or other entity, as described, deemed
responsible for the emergency by the authority in charge, whether that be city,
state or other, shall be responsible for payment of all hazardous related
activities. This pertains to all emergencies whether inside or out of the city
corporate limits;
   C.   Whenever possible, the responsible party will be made aware that they
will incur all HAZMAT service charges and an agreement to pay should be signed,
a copy of which will be provided to the HAZMAT team and to the responsible
party prior to their departure from the scene. In such cases that interchange
with the responsible party is impossible, a statement to that effect will be
attached to the agreement to pay and copies provided as above;
   D.   Agreements to pay will be turned in to the billing clerk as soon as
possible so that disposition of the bill can immediately begin. (2000 Code §
13-251)
CHAPTER 3
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
13-301: Purpose Of Civil Defense Organization
13-302: Department Of Civil Defense Created
13-303: Director Of Civil Defense; Powers And Duties
13-304: Further Powers And Duties
13-305: Civil Defense; Emergency Powers
13-306: Enforcement Of Laws And Ordinances
13-307: Service Without Compensation; Not Liable For Injuries
13-301: PURPOSE OF CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION:
The purpose of this chapter is to create a civil defense organization for the
city to be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies
endangering the lives and property of the people of such city. The duty of such
civil defense organization shall be the protection of the lives and health of
the citizens of the city and of property rights, both private and public, and
to perform all functions necessary and incident thereto. (2000 Code §
13-301)
13-302: DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL DEFENSE CREATED:
There is hereby established under the executive branch of the government of the
city a department of civil defense, which shall consist of:
   A.   A director of civil defense, who shall be appointed by the mayor of the
city and serve at his pleasure;
   B.   A civil defense advisory committee. This committee shall consist of the
mayor as chairperson and five (5) members appointed by the mayor and serving at
his pleasure. The committee shall select from its members a vice chairperson
and secretary. It shall hold such meetings as are directed by the mayor or the
director of civil defense. (2000 Code §
13-302)
13-303: DIRECTOR OF CIVIL DEFENSE; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The director of civil defense shall be the executive head of the department of
civil defense, and shall be responsible for carrying out the civil defense
program of the city. He shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed
for expenses incurred in the performance of his duties. It shall be the duty of
the director of civil defense, as soon as practicable after his appointment, to
perfect an organization to carry out the purposes set forth in this chapter. He
shall have all necessary power and authority to form committees or other bodies
and to appoint and designate the chairperson or chief officer of such bodies as
may be necessary to perfect such an organization. He shall have such further
duty and responsibility to cooperate with all civil defense agencies of other
governmental units, including the state and federal government. (2000 Code §
13-303)
13-304: FURTHER POWERS AND DUTIES:
The director of civil defense is further authorized to formulate written plans
and gather information and keep written records thereof to govern the functions
of the civil defense organization. (2000 Code §
13-304)
13-305: CIVIL DEFENSE; EMERGENCY POWERS:
In the event of an enemy caused emergency or emergency resulting from natural
causes, the director of civil defense, after due authorization from the city
council, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and
regulations relating to civil defense and, if necessary, take control of
transportation, communications, stocks of fuel, food, clothing, medicine and
public utilities for the purpose of protecting the civilian population. He
shall cooperate in every way with the activities of other governmental agencies
or civil defense organizations. If required by the mayor, he shall have control
over any and all funds allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating
distress conditions in the city. (2000 Code §
13-305)
13-306: ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The director of civil defense and other members of the civil defense
organization created by him shall have the power and authority to enforce the
laws of the state and ordinances of the city during the period of emergency,
and shall at such time have the further power to make arrests for violations of
such laws or ordinances. (2000 Code §
13-306)
13-307: SERVICE WITHOUT COMPENSATION; NOT LIABLE FOR INJURIES:
All members of the civil defense organization created hereunder shall serve
without compensation; and the city shall not be liable for any personal injury
received by any member of such organization while acting in line of duty. (2000
Code §
13-307)
CHAPTER 4
POLICE DEPARTMENT AND SERVICES
SECTION:
13-401: Police Department; Chief Of Police; Duties
13-401: POLICE DEPARTMENT; CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES:
   A.   There shall be a police department, the head of which shall be the
chief of police, appointed by the city manager for an indefinite term, and
removable by the manager. The chief of police shall be an officer of the city,
and shall have supervision and control of the police department. All police
officers shall be officers of the city.
   B.   It is the duty of the police department to apprehend and arrest on view
or on warrant and bring to justice violators of the ordinances of the city; to
suppress riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies which may come to their
knowledge, and generally to keep the peace; to serve warrants, writs,
executions and other processes properly directed and delivered to them; to
apprehend and arrest persons violating federal or state law as provided by law,
and to turn them over to proper authorities; and in all respects to perform all
duties pertaining to the offices of police officers. The police department
shall have charge of and operate the city jail. (2000 Code §
13-401)
CHAPTER 5
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
13-501: Unclaimed Property; Record; Disposal
13-502: Sale; Notice; Unclaimed Personal Property
13-501: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; RECORD; DISPOSAL:
All personal property which shall come into the possession of any police
officer which shall have been "found" or "stolen", or taken off the person or
out of the possession of any prisoner, or person suspected of or charged with
being a criminal, and which property shall not be known to belong to some
person laying claim thereto, shall be by the officer securing possession
thereof delivered into the charge of the chief of police. The chief of police
shall, in a permanent record book kept for that purpose, make a record
sufficient to identify the property, with the date and circumstances of the
receipt thereof, the name of the person from whom it was taken and the place
where it was found. The record shall also disclose the subsequent disposal
thereof giving the date of sale and name and address of the purchaser and the
amount for which it was sold. (2000 Code §
13-501)
13-502: SALE; NOTICE; UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY:
Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which shall remain in the
possession of the chief of police unclaimed, or the ownership of which shall
not be to him satisfactorily established for a period of thirty (30) days,
shall be sold, except such personal property that in the opinion of the city
manager can be more advantageously used for some department of the city
government. The proceeds of such sale shall be paid over to the city treasurer,
who shall issue his receipt therefor and deposit the same to the credit of the
general fund of the city. Ten (10) days before sales of such unclaimed
property, the chief of police shall sign and have posted in at least four (4)
public places in the city, one of which shall be the front door of the police
station, notices of the time, place and manner of such sale, and a general
description of the property to be sold. However, if, in the opinion of the city
manager, all or any portion of the personal property may be more advantageously
used by any city department, he shall so instruct the chief of police, in
writing, and the chief shall thereupon deliver the personal property designated
to that department of city government and make a permanent record of its
disposition. Any such personal property as shall be found by a person other
than a public official, which shall be delivered to any police officer for
"identification", if not claimed or identified within thirty (30) days, shall,
within ten (10) additional days thereafter, if requested by the finder, be
returned to him, and a record of such disposal made thereof. If any property
shall be sold as herein provided, the owner thereof shall take and recover
possession of the same from such purchaser, upon verified claim being
submitted, approved and allowed by the proper officers thereof. No police
officer or employee of the police department shall be permitted to purchase any
of such goods or property as herein defined. (2000 Code §
13-502)
TITLE 14
STREETS AND PUBLIC WORKS
CHAPTER 1
USE AND OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS
SECTION:
14-101: Trees And Shrubbery To Be Trimmed
14-102: Penalty For Violation Of Section
14-101 Of This Chapter
14-103: Unlawful To Injure Trees And Shrubbery
14-104: Unlawful To Obstruct Sidewalks, Parkways, Streets And Alleys With
Merchandise
14-105: Unlawful To Unduly Obstruct Sidewalks And Streets
14-106: Unlawful To Deposit Trash Upon Streets Or Sidewalks
14-107: Unlawful To Play On Sidewalks And In Streets
14-108: Vehicles Not To Be Washed On Street
14-109: Water, Mud From Vehicle Not To Drain Into Street
14-110: Water From Filling Stations And Other Businesses
14-111: Owner Or Occupant Not To Permit Sidewalk Or Sidewalk Area To Become A
Hazard
14-101: TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO BE TRIMMED:
The owner of any premises abutting on any street of this city shall trim all
trees and shrubbery growing in the parking, between the sidewalks and the
roadway, of any such street, and all trees and shrubbery growing on any part of
the premises adjacent to the sidewalks or any street or alley, in such manner
that the boughs or limbs thereof shall not obstruct free and convenient passage
and travel along the streets, sidewalks and alleys. When such premises is
occupied by some person other than the owner, such occupant shall trim the
trees and shrubbery in the same manner as hereinafter required of the owner.
Such trees and shrubbery shall be trimmed so that the lowest branches or
foliage shall not be lower than ten feet (10') above the roadway of a street or
alley, nor lower than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk. (2000 Code §
14-101)
14-102: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF SECTION 14-101 OF THIS CHAPTER:
Any owner or occupant who shall fail, refuse or neglect to trim trees and
shrubbery as provided in section
14-101 of this chapter, after receiving five (5) days' notice from the head of
the department in charge of streets to do so, shall be guilty of an offense
against the city. Every day that the said owner or occupant shall fail, refuse
or neglect to trim said trees or shrubbery, after the expiration of the five
(5) days' notice, shall be a separate offense. (2000 Code §
14-102)
14-103: UNLAWFUL TO INJURE TREES AND SHRUBBERY:
It is unlawful for any person to injure any tree or shrubbery on a street or
alley in the city; provided, that this shall not prohibit the lawful and proper
care and removal of such trees and shrubbery. (2000 Code §
14-103)
14-104: UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT SIDEWALKS, PARKWAYS, STREETS AND ALLEYS WITH
MERCHANDISE:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place upon or permit to
be placed upon the sidewalks, parkways, streets and alleys of the city any
goods, wares, articles of merchandise or any other obstruction, and leave the
same thereon; or to use the same as a place to carry on a business or trade.
(2000 Code §
14-104)
14-105: UNLAWFUL TO UNDULY OBSTRUCT SIDEWALKS AND STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or obstruct the
sidewalks of the city in any manner so as to interfere unduly with pedestrian
traffic thereon, or to use or obstruct the streets and alleys of the city in
any manner so as to interfere unduly with lawful traffic and parking thereon.
(2000 Code §
14-105)
14-106: UNLAWFUL TO DEPOSIT TRASH UPON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, throw or sweep
into or upon the streets, alleys, parking or sidewalks of the city, any paper,
rubbish, grass, weeds, tree trimmings, dirt, trash, crates, boxes or other
refuse of any kind. (2000 Code §
14-106)
14-107: UNLAWFUL TO PLAY ON SIDEWALKS AND IN STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to play on the sidewalks or upon the main
traveled portion of the streets and alleys of the city, except as may be
authorized by ordinance. (2000 Code §
14-107)
14-108: VEHICLES NOT TO BE WASHED ON STREET:
The washing of an automobile or other vehicle in any street of the city is
hereby prohibited. (2000 Code §
14-108)
14-109: WATER, MUD FROM VEHICLE NOT TO DRAIN INTO STREET:
No automobile or other vehicle shall be washed at any place within the city
where the water, dirt, mud or other substances removed therefrom by or during
the washing thereof, shall drain into or upon any street or sidewalk of the
city. (2000 Code §
14-109)
14-110: WATER FROM FILLING STATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESSES:
It is unlawful for any owner or operator of a filling station or other place of
business, or any agent or employee thereof, to cause or allow water, grease or
other fluid to flow or drain into, upon, over or across any sidewalk, parking,
street, alley or other public way. (2000 Code §
14-110)
14-111: OWNER OR OCCUPANT NOT TO PERMIT SIDEWALK OR SIDEWALK AREA TO BECOME A
HAZARD:
It is unlawful for the owner or occupant of property abutting upon a sidewalk
area to permit the sidewalk or sidewalk area adjacent to the property to become
a hazard to persons using the sidewalk, or sidewalk area. (2000 Code §
14-111)
CHAPTER 2
OBSTRUCTING DRAINAGE DITCHES
SECTION:
14-201: Drainage Ditches Not To Be Obstructed
14-202: Tin Horns, Culverts; How Placed
14-203: Repair Of Drainage Ditch
14-204: Curb And Guttering
14-201: DRAINAGE DITCHES NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED:
Any person, firm or corporation, or their agents or employees, are hereby
prohibited from placing any obstruction in drainage ditches or drains along the
streets and alleys of the city, and are prohibited from doing any act which
will obstruct the flow of water along such ditches or drains, including the
driving of automobiles or other vehicles across said drainage ditches or drains
when such action will in any way obstruct the flow of water along the same.
(2000 Code §
14-201)
14-202: TIN HORNS, CULVERTS; HOW PLACED:
Any person, firm or corporation, which now has a tin horn or culvert or other
drainage material, constructed in such manner so that it interferes unduly with
the flow of water along said drainage ditch, shall repair such tin horn,
culvert or other drainage material in such manner so that the same will not
interfere with the flow of such water along such streets and alleys. The city
manager is hereby directed to notify such person of the defective tin horn,
culvert or drainage material and request that the same be repaired. Upon
failure of the person, firm or corporation to make such repairs within four (4)
weeks after being so notified, then such person, firm or corporation shall be
deemed guilty of an offense. (2000 Code §
14-202)
14-203: REPAIR OF DRAINAGE DITCH:
Any person, firm or corporation, which now has a tin horn or culvert, or other
drainage material, constructed in such manner so that it interferes unduly with
the flow of water along the drainage ditch, shall repair such tin horn, culvert
or other drainage material in such manner so that the same will not interfere
with the flow of such water along such streets and alleys. The city manager is
hereby directed to notify such person of the defective tin horn, culvert or
drainage material and request that the same be repaired. Upon failure of the
person, firm or corporation to make such repairs within four (4) weeks after
being so notified, then such person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty
of an offense. (2000 Code §
14-203)
14-204: CURB AND GUTTERING:
   A.   Curb and guttering will be allowed to be constructed under the
conditions in this section.
   B.   All citizens within a block (defined as 1 side of the street from
corner to corner) may apply for a permit to construct curb and guttering. The
permit for such construction will be obtained at city hall for a fee as set by
the council, to be paid at the time of permit application. The permit will
designate the type of curb and guttering, specific dimensions, allowances for
drainage, and the means by which the curb and guttering will be tied to the
street surface.
   C.   Those blocks deciding on curb and guttering must ensure that all
aspects of the curb and guttering will be completely paid for by the citizens
of that block and also must ensure that it is agreed upon by all residents of
that block.
   D.   The curb and guttering must be constructed of cement, must be two feet
by six inches by six inches (2' x 6" x 6") and must round each corner.
   E.   The curb and gutter must be designed to tie in with the street surface
in such a way that neither the level of the street nor the street surface
itself is altered, unless otherwise approved in the permit.
   F.   The curb and gutter approval will be given only if the present drainage
of intersecting streets is not obstructed. The system by which drainage in the
curb and guttering area is to be handled should be specific and should allow
for underground springs as well as extensive runoff from large rains or melting
snow.
   G.   Repairs to curb and guttering as well as repair of any area of the curb
and guttering that separates from the street surface will be charged to those
persons living on the block at time of repair unless determined to be caused by
the street surface or maintenance thereof.
   H.   The ditch surface will be prepared for curb and gutter by the city.
Citizens are responsible for backfill from yard to curb and gutter.
   I.   The city will assist in the planning by request of any citizen groups
wishing to construct curb and guttering. (2000 Code §
14-204)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVING OVER CURB
SECTION:
14-301: Certain Vehicles Not To Be Driven Over Curbs Without Permit
14-302: Application; Deposit; Permit
14-301: CERTAIN VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN OVER CURBS WITHOUT PERMIT:
No person, firm or corporation, without permit as required herein, shall drive
or cause to be driven across any curb in the city, any vehicle which has an
axle load in excess of two thousand (2,000) pounds per axle. (2000 Code §
14-301)
14-302: APPLICATION; DEPOSIT; PERMIT:
If any person, firm or corporation desires to secure a permit to drive a
vehicle which is in excess of the weight limit set forth in section
14-301 of this chapter, across the curbs of the city, he shall make written
application for such permit to the city clerk, who shall transmit the
application to the city manager. The city manager shall require that an amount
of money estimated by him to be adequate to compensate the city for replacing
or repairing the curb if the same is damaged by the vehicle crossing the curb,
be deposited with the city clerk. After such deposit is made, the city manager
shall issue the permit. The deposit or any balance thereof, if not needed to
compensate the city for replacing or repairing the curb, shall be returned to
the applicant. (2000 Code §
14-302)
CHAPTER 4
OPENINGS IN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
14-401: Openings In Streets And Sidewalks; Application; Fee
14-402: Replacement And Inspection
14-403: Fee To Be Paid Into General Fund
14-404: Underground Crossings Of Streets, Alleys And Utility Easements
14-401: OPENINGS IN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to make an opening in a public
street or sidewalk of the city, is hereby required to make written application
for permit to make such opening with the city clerk of the city, and shall be
required to pay the sum as set by the council by motion or resolution to the
city clerk as an inspection fee. The city clerk shall transmit the application
to the city manager, who shall issue a permit therefor if he thinks the request
reasonable under the circumstances, and that the street or sidewalk will be
properly and promptly restored. If the city manager refuses a permit, the
applicant may appeal within one month to the council; and the city manager
shall issue the permit if the council approves the application. The council's
decision shall be final. Before the permit is issued, either the city manager
or the council may require the applicant to deposit with the city clerk an
amount of money estimated by the city manager or council to be adequate to
compensate the city for restoring the street or sidewalk properly if the
applicant fails to do so promptly. If the applicant restores the street or
sidewalk promptly and properly, the amount deposited shall be returned to him.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make an opening
in a street or sidewalk without a permit as provided herein. (2000 Code §
14-401)
14-402: REPLACEMENT AND INSPECTION:
After the person, firm or corporation has made such opening in the public
streets or sidewalks, the same shall be replaced in such manner as may be
prescribed by the city and as may be prescribed by the city manager. After such
replacement has been made, the person, firm or corporation making the opening
in said street or sidewalk shall notify the office of the city clerk that the
same is ready for inspection. Within twenty four (24) hours after such
notification, excluding Sundays and holidays, the city manager, or such person
as is designated by the city manager, shall inspect such replacement and either
approve or reject the same. If the same is rejected as not having conformed to
the rules and regulations prescribed by the city, such rejection shall be
communicated to the person having made said opening; and said person, firm or
corporation shall immediately make such replacement in conformity with the
rules and regulations prescribed by the city. (2000 Code §
14-402)
14-403: FEE TO BE PAID INTO GENERAL FUND:
The inspection fee which is required herein shall go into the general fund of
the city. (2000 Code §
14-403)
14-404: UNDERGROUND CROSSINGS OF STREETS, ALLEYS AND UTILITY EASEMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Before placing a pipeline, telephone or utility
company underground crossing facility on any city right of way, a permit must
be obtained, using standard forms furnished by the city clerk.
   B.   Forms: The city clerk is authorized to promulgate such forms as deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with this section.
   C.   Conditions, Requirements And Covenants: Any permit is subject to the
following conditions, requirements and covenants:
      1.   Applications for road crossings must be submitted to the city clerk
for approval by the city clerk, with a payment of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per crossing for an inspection fee made payable to the city. All telephone
companies and public utility companies shall be exempt from the inspection fee.
The applicant/contractor shall telephone the city clerk's office twenty four
(24) hours prior to actual construction if required by the city clerk so an
inspector can be at the site during construction. The applicant/contractor
shall have the right to maintain its facilities upon reasonable notice to the
city clerk or a designee.
      2.   Underground construction of pipelines, telephone company facilities
or utility lines (hereinafter collectively referred to as "utility lines") that
cross city highways or roads shall be bored, and no ditch or trench in the road
shall be opened by the applicant/contractor unless otherwise agreed to in
writing by the city.
      3.   When paralleling the roadway, utility lines shall be located within
five feet (5') of the right of way line or the fence line, unless otherwise
agreed to by the city.
      4.   All underground paralleling facilities shall be installed at a
minimum of thirty inches (30") below the surface, except buried power lines
which should be placed at a minimum depth of forty eight inches (48") below the
surface, and except telephone company facilities, which shall be installed at a
minimum of twenty four inches (24") below the surface. All overhead and
parallel installations shall not cross any city road nor any point of access to
the city road at a height of less than required by the corporation commission
of the state of Oklahoma.
      5.   All underground crossings shall be installed at a minimum of three
feet (3') below the elevation of the centerline of the road, or two feet (2')
below the elevation of the minimum of four feet (4') below the elevation of the
ditch. "High pressure pipelines" are defined as pipelines designed to operate
at pressure in excess of one hundred twenty five (125) psig.
      6.   All section and quarter section corner markers shall be protected.
No pipeline shall cross an intersection diagonally.
      7.   The applicant agrees to keep the road open to traffic unless
otherwise agreed to or approved by the city. The applicant or contractor shall
meet all applicable laws and regulations, including those in the manual on
uniform traffic control devices appropriate for the construction project
covered by this application.
      8.   The applicant will relocate said utility or pipeline, if and when it
interferes with highway construction or maintenance, upon written notice from
the city.
   D.   Design Methods: Applicant agrees to design pipeline road crossings
using one of the following methods:
      1.   When encased, casing shall extend from right of way to right of way.
      2.   If noncased, and of steel, pipe within the right of way shall be
superior to the pipe outside the right of way:
         a.   By being at least one grade better and of the same thickness; or
         b.   Being a minimum of one wall thickness greater and of the same
alloy; or
         c.   In the case of unequal diameters, being proven superior by use of
the pipe design formula as per 49 CFR part 192.105.
      3.   All plastic pipe shall be encased within the right of way.
      4.   When crossing a road, high pressure pipelines will be covered by a
concrete slab.
   E.   Nonliability: Applicant agrees to hold free and harmless the city for
any damage to person or property caused by its construction or maintenance of
any poles, posts, stubs, pipes, valves, wires and other property placed on or
under said roadways, pursuant to this application. Applicant further agrees to
be responsible for repairing all damages to the roadway caused by applicant's
construction. This responsibility includes, when and where appropriate,
applicant causing to be placed on the roadway sufficient gravel and/or chat
which will return the roadway where the cut or installation of facilities
occurred to a level surface, designed such that, after compacting, no
depressions in the roadway will result from applicant's installation.
   F.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00). Each day of violation shall constitute
a separate offense. (Ord. 242, 6-11-2009)
CHAPTER 5
PENALTY
SECTION:
14-501: Penalty
14-501: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this title,
by doing any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful thereby, or declared to
be an offense or misdemeanor thereby, or who shall fail to do any act required
by such provision, or who shall fail to do any act when such provision declares
such failure to be unlawful or to be an offense or misdemeanor, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
14-501)
TITLE 15
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
15-101: Citation Of Chapter
15-102: Traffic Code Controlling
15-103: Definitions
15-104: Adoption Of State Traffic Code
15-105: Security Verification Required
15-101: CITATION OF CHAPTER:
This chapter and all amendments hereto may be cited or referred to as the
TRAFFIC CODE, CITY OF STROUD, and may so appear upon all official documents,
records or instruments. (2000 Code §
15-101)
15-102: TRAFFIC CODE CONTROLLING:
Except as specifically provided by law as set forth in this chapter, the
traffic code shall be controlling in the use of city streets, alleys,
thoroughfares, parks, parkways or any other public rights of way or municipally
owned land, by pedestrians and by vehicles of every kind, whether self-
propelled or otherwise, and whether moving or at rest. (2000 Code §
15-102)
15-103: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein:
ALLEY: Any narrow highway ordinarily located in the interior portion of platted
blocks and ordinarily used for service or delivery purposes at the rear of
stores, dwellings or buildings.
AMBULANCE: A motor vehicle constructed, reconstructed or arranged for the
purpose of transporting ill, sick or injured persons.
BICYCLE: A device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels.
BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons, and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to, and including a highway if
there are buildings within six hundred feet (600') of the highway in use for
business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks
or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at
least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side, or three hundred feet
(300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
CENTER LANE: Any clearly marked center lane. If the center lane is not marked
and no cars are parked on the roadway, then the center lane is equally
distanced between the curbs or traveled portion of the roadway. In the event a
vehicle or vehicles are parked on one side of the roadway only, then the center
lane is equally distanced from the side of the parked vehicle or vehicles
toward the street and curb on the opposite roadway. If vehicles be parked on
each side of the roadway, then the center lane is equally distanced from the
edges of the parked vehicles.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of
access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such manner as
may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such
highway, street or roadway.
CROSSWALK: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs; or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway. "Crosswalk" also means any portion of a roadway at an
intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
DOUBLE PARK: Parking or stopping a vehicle on the roadway side of another
vehicle already parked adjacent to the edge or curbing of the roadway.
DRIVER OR OPERATOR: A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseeable occurrence of temporary duration causing or
resulting in an abnormal increase in traffic volume, cessation or stoppage of
traffic movement, or creation of conditions hazardous to normal traffic
movement, including fire, storm, accident, riot, or spontaneous assembly of
large numbers of pedestrians in such a manner as to impede the flow of traffic.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the fire department, police vehicles and
ambulances.
HIGHWAY: See definition of Street Or Highway.
INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadway
of two (2) streets, which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets join
at any other angle, may come in conflict; or
   B.   Where a street includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an
intersecting street, shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting street also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or
more apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such streets shall be
regarded as separate intersections.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LIMIT LINES: Boundaries of parking areas, loading zones and nontraffic areas
and lines indicating the proper place for stopping where stops are required.
LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: See definition of Controlled Access Highway.
LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or material. A freight
curb loading zone is a loading zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during
the loading or unloading of freight; a passenger curb loading zone is a loading
zone for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of
passengers.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
MOTORCYCLE, MOTOR SCOOTER AND MOTOR BICYCLE: A motor vehicle, other than a
tractor, having a seat or saddle for the use of the driver and designed to
travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but
excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME: Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean Central
Standard Time, or Daylight Saving Time, as may be in current use in the city.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of a public body
or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers, providing such loading and unloading is in
an authorized place.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the municipal police department, or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR ROADWAY: A way or place in private ownership or leading to
property in private ownership and used for vehicular traffic by the owner and
those having express or implied permission from the owner.
RAILROAD: A carrier of persons or property upon cars other than streetcars
operated upon stationary rails.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed and ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulders. In the event a street includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway, separately, but not to all such roadways,
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times, while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL ZONE: All streets or portions of streets immediately adjacent to a
school, or school ground, where the same is adjacent and for a distance of
three hundred feet (300') in each direction.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or at lateral lines
of the roadway and adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
STOP: When required, shall mean the complete cessation from movement.
STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
traffic signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY: A street, or boulevard or highway, or portion
thereof, at the entrances to which:
   A.   Vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to come to a full stop before entering or crossing; and
   B.   Stop signs are erected as provided in this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances,
either singularly or together, while using any highway or street for purpose of
travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR SIGNALS: Any device legally authorized and used for
the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
U-TURN: A turn by which a vehicle reverses its course of travel on the same
street.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of
one-fourth (1/4) mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is, or may
be transported, or drawn, upon a highway or street, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (2000 Code §
15-103)
15-104: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE:
The provisions of the state motor vehicle code, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
1-101 et seq., and the rules of the road, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
10-101 et seq., are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and
are enforceable by the city within the city limits as fully as if set out at
length herein. (2000 Code §
15-104)
15-105: SECURITY VERIFICATION REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall carry in
such vehicle, at all times, a current owner's security verification form
listing the vehicle, or an equivalent form which has been issued by the
department of public safety, and shall produce such form upon request for
inspection by any law enforcement officer or representative of the department
of public safety, and, in the case of collision, the form shall be shown upon
request to any person affected by such collision.
   B.   The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or operator's
security verification form or an equivalent form from the department of public
safety during operation of the vehicle:
      1.   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or
any agency or political subdivision thereof;
      2.   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of a business,
corporation or utility on the exterior, and which is in compliance with
provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes sections 7-600 through
7-607, according to the records of the state department of public safety which
reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance or fleet policy;
      3.   Any vehicle authorized for operation pursuant to a permit number
issued by the interstate commerce commission or the corporation commission;
      4.   Any licensed taxicab; and
      5.   Any vehicle owned by a licensed motor vehicle dealer.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
COMPULSORY INSURANCE LAW: The law requiring liability insurance in conjunction
with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in article VI,
chapter 7, and 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
7-606.
OPERATOR'S POLICY: An operator's policy of liability insurance which shall
insure the named person against loss from the liability imposed upon him by law
for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor vehicle not
owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in an owner's
policy.
OWNER'S POLICY: An owner's policy of liability insurance which:
      1.   Shall designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference
all vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted;
      2.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subsection 3 of this definition, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, operation or use of such vehicle;
      3.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws; and
      4.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
7-204.
SECURITY: 1. A policy or bond meeting the requirements of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section
7-204;
      2.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes section
7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond; or
      3.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section
7-503, having the equivalency of limits required under 47 Oklahoma Statutes
section
7-204 as acceptable limits for a policy or bond.
SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM: A form, approved by the state board for property
and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required by the
compulsory insurance law of the state of Oklahoma.
   D.   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall, while
operating or using such vehicle within the city boundaries, carry either an
operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a carrier,
providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon; or an equivalent
form issued by the state department of public safety, reflecting liability
coverage.
   E.   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by
the department upon request of any peace officer of the department shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
1-108 of this code and court costs.
   F.   A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be suspended
or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   G.   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form which has been issued by the department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   H.   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk shall forward an abstract to the state department of public safety within
ten (10) days reflecting the action taken by the court. (2000 Code §
15-105)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
15-201: Enforcement Of Traffic Laws; Establishment Of Traffic Control Division
15-202: Direction Of Traffic By Hand Or Voice
15-203: Direction Of Traffic By Unauthorized Persons
15-204: Obedience To Police And Fire Officials
15-205: Emergency And Experimental Regulations
15-206: Pushcarts, Riding Animals, Or Driving Animal Drawn Vehicles To Comply
With Title
15-207: Use Of Coasters, Roller Skates And Similar Devices Restricted
15-208: Public Officers And Employees To Obey Traffic Regulations
15-209: Persons Working On Streets; Exceptions
15-210: Maintenance And Construction Zones
15-211: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-212: Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-213: Accidents; Duty To Stop
15-214: Issuance Of Citation Tags
15-215: Failure To Obey Citation
15-216: Failure To Comply With Traffic Citations Attached To Parked Vehicle
15-217: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
15-218: Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citations
15-219: Disposition And Records Of Traffic Citations, Warrants And Complaints
15-220: Court Records; Abstract To Be Sent To State Department Of Public Safety
15-201: ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS; ESTABLISHMENT OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DIVISION:
It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department, or any officers
that are assigned by the chief of police, to enforce all street traffic laws of
this city and all the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this
city. Officers of the department shall make arrests for traffic violations,
investigate accidents and cooperate with other officers in the administration
of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the department
by this title and any other traffic ordinances of this city. (2000 Code §
15-201)
15-202: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY HAND OR VOICE:
   A.   Officers of the police department, or any officers designated by the
chief of police, are hereby authorized to direct traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances. In the event of a fire
or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   B.   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the
immediate vicinity. (2000 Code §
15-202)
15-203: DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS:
No unauthorized person shall direct or attempt to direct traffic, except in
case of emergency where no officer is present. (2000 Code §
15-203)
15-204: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official. (2000 Code §
15-204)
15-205: EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   The city manager, subject to any directions which the council may give
by motion or resolution, is empowered to adopt regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of this city and to make
temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than ninety (90) days.
   B.   The city manager may have traffic control devices tested under actual
conditions of traffic. (2000 Code §
15-205)
15-206: PUSHCARTS, RIDING ANIMALS, OR DRIVING ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES TO COMPLY
WITH TITLE:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(2000 Code §
15-206)
15-207: USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED:
No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk; and when so crossing, such person shall be subject to
all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon
any street while set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinances of this
city. (2000 Code §
15-207)
15-208: PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the service of the United States government, any state, county, city
or governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles. It is unlawful
for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this title, except as
otherwise permitted in this title by state statute. This title shall not apply
to the military forces of the United States and organizations of the national
guard when performing any military duty. (2000 Code §
15-208)
15-209: PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS; EXCEPTIONS:
Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title, except those
relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not apply to
persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in
work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and other
equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair of
public utilities. All street or highway and public utility operations shall be
protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flag persons. The
provisions of this title shall apply to any of the persons and vehicles
exempted by this section when traveling to and from such work. (2000 Code §
15-209)
15-210: MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION ZONES:
   A.   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the streets
of the city, and city personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized, as necessary, subject to control by the city clerk, to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance or
construction. In exercising this authority, the appropriate personnel,
contractor or utility company shall erect or cause to be erected proper control
devices and barricades to warn and notify the public that the street has been
closed to traffic.
   B.   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection A of this section and traffic control devices or barricades have
been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through,
under, over or around such traffic control devices or barricades, or otherwise
to enter the closed area. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
persons entering the closed area or zone for the protection of lives or
property. Persons having their places of residence or places of business within
the closed area may travel, when possible to do so, through the area at their
own risk.
   C.   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the city personnel,
contractor or utility company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected,
traffic control devices to warn and guide the public. Every person using the
street shall obey all signs, signals, markings, flag persons or other traffic
control devices which are placed to regulate, control and guide traffic through
the construction or maintenance area. (2000 Code §
15-210)
15-211: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to
the conditions stated in this section.
   B.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may do any of the
following when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or
ordinance, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      3.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as life or property is not
endangered; or
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions.
   C.   The exemptions granted in this section to an authorized emergency
vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle is making use of
audible and visual signals as required by law, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (2000 Code §
15-211)
15-212: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (2000 Code §
15-212)
15-213: ACCIDENTS; DUTY TO STOP:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person, or damage to any vehicle or property, shall
immediately stop his vehicle at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto
as possible, return to and remain at the scene of the accident until he has
given his name, address and the registration of his vehicle, and shall, upon
request, exhibit his driver's license to the person injured or the driver or
occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with, and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or making arrangement for the carrying of such persons to a physician,
surgeon or hospital for medical and surgical treatment if it is apparent that
this treatment is necessary, or if such is requested by the injured person.
Each such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person, or in which it is
apparent that damage to one vehicle or to the property is in excess of five
hundred dollars ($500.00), shall, as soon as practicable, report such accident
to a police officer or to the police department. If a driver makes out a
written report of the accident in the office of the police department as soon
as practicable after the accident, which report is to be forwarded to the state
department of public safety in accordance with state law, the driver shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section.
   C.   Any person failing to stop or to comply with any of the requirements of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may
be punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
15-213)
15-214: ISSUANCE OF CITATION TAGS:
   A.   The chief of police is hereby authorized and directed to supply police
officers with citation tags in sets, each set consisting of an original and at
least two (2) duplicate copies, for the purpose of giving notice to persons
violating any provision of this title.
   B.   Notice may be given by delivering the tags to the violator or by
affixing it to the vehicle involved in the violation.
   C.   Each citation tag shall direct the violator to appear and to present
such tag at a designated place on or before a date and hour specified thereon.
Each tag shall bear the registration number of the vehicle.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge the power of a
police officer to arrest any violator and take him into custody.
   E.   The city manager may require that the police officers use citation tags
furnished by the finance department and that such tags be serially numbered,
and may regulate the use and handling of the citation tags. (2000 Code §
15-214)
15-215: FAILURE TO OBEY CITATION:
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate his written
promise to appear, given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation,
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which citation was originally
issued. (2000 Code §
15-215)
15-216: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATIONS ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE:
If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking under the
traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic citation
affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five (5) days, the clerk of
the municipal court may send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and
warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five
(5) days, a warrant of arrest may be issued. On any occasion where two (2) or
more such traffic citations have been affixed on the same motor vehicle and the
traffic citations have been disregarded, a warrant of arrest may be issued
without sending the letter provided in this section. (2000 Code §
15-216)
15-217: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
   A.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where,
and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
   B.   The presumption in subsection A of this section shall apply only when
the procedure as prescribed in this chapter has been followed. (2000 Code §
15-217)
15-218: ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of
any traffic citation in any manner other than is provided by this chapter.
(2000 Code §
15-218)
15-219: DISPOSITION AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS, WARRANTS AND COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or any
traffic law of this city, shall deposit the original and a duplicate copy of
the citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the original
to be delivered to the municipal court.
   B.   Upon the filing of the original citation in the municipal court, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court or by other official
action by a judge of the court, including forfeiture of bail or by payment of a
fine.
   C.   The chief of police shall maintain a record of all warrants issued by
the municipal court which are delivered to the police department for service,
and of the final disposition of the warrants.
   D.   No member of the police department or other officer or public employee
shall dispose of, alter or deface a traffic citation or any copy thereof, or
the record of the issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint or
warrant, in a manner other than as required in this chapter. (2000 Code §
15-219)
15-220: COURT RECORDS; ABSTRACT TO BE SENT TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY:
   A.   The municipal judge shall keep a record of every traffic citation
deposited with or presented to the court, and shall keep a record of every
official action by the court or its traffic violations bureau in reference
thereto, including, but not limited to, a record of every conviction,
forfeiture of bail, judgment of acquittal, and the amount of fine or
forfeiture.
   B.   Within ten (10) days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this chapter, or other law
regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, the municipal judge or clerk
of the court in which the conviction was had or bail was forfeited shall
prepare and immediately forward to the state department of public safety a
certified abstract of the court's record of the case. An abstract need not be
made of any conviction involving the illegal parking or standing of a vehicle.
   C.   The abstract must be made upon a form furnished by the state department
of public safety and shall include the name and address of the party charged,
the number of his operator's or chauffeur's license, the registration number of
the vehicle involved, the nature of the offense, the date of hearing, the plea,
the judgment, whether bail was forfeited, and the amount of the fine or
forfeiture. (2000 Code §
15-220)
CHAPTER 3
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
15-301: Certain Vehicles Prohibited; Vehicles Injurious To Streets
15-302: Obstructive And Dangerous Vehicles
15-303: Equipment, All-Terrain Vehicles Prohibited
15-304: Mufflers, Cutouts
15-305: Width, Height, Length And Load
15-306: Inspection Of Vehicles
15-307: Seat Belts And Child Passenger Restraints
15-301: CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED; VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS:
No vehicle or object which injures or is likely to injure the surface of a
street, shall be driven or moved on any street. (2000 Code §
15-301)
15-302: OBSTRUCTIVE AND DANGEROUS VEHICLES:
No person shall drive any vehicle in such condition, so constructed, or so
loaded, as to cause delay or be likely to cause delay in traffic, or as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property, except by permit issued by the
chief of police and in accordance with the terms of such permit. (2000 Code §
15-302)
15-303: EQUIPMENT, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Every vehicle operated upon the streets of the city shall be equipped
as required by law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle upon a street of the
city which is not equipped as required by law. It is unlawful to fail to use
such equipment in the manner required by law, or to use it in a manner
prohibited by law. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle which has equipment
prohibited by law upon a street of the city.
   B.   All-terrain vehicles (ATV 4-wheelers) shall not operate on any city
street except for transporting agricultural or horticultural products or
livestock as defined by Oklahoma Statutes. (2000 Code §
15-303)
15-304: MUFFLERS, CUTOUTS:
No motor vehicles with an internal combustion engine shall be operated within
the city unless the exhaust from such engine is muffled by a suitable and
sufficient muffler. No muffler cutout or exhaust or vacuum whistle shall be
used on any motor vehicle while operating within the city, except that exhaust
whistles may be used on authorized emergency vehicles. (2000 Code §
15-304)
15-305: WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH AND LOAD:
No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
length, height, weight or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the chief of
police. (2000 Code §
15-305)
15-306: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   No person shall drive or move on any road, street or highway of this
city any motor vehicle, including motorcycles, trailers, semitrailers, or pole
trailers, which are licensed by the Oklahoma tax commission and operated on the
streets or highways of this city, or any combination thereof, unless the
vehicle is bearing a valid official inspection sticker issued by an official
inspection station licensed by the department of public safety. The provisions
of this section shall not apply to any house trailer, which requires a permit
to be moved upon the highways of this state.
   B.   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
15-306)
15-307: SEAT BELTS AND CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINTS:
   A.   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
this city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to
federal motor vehicle safety standard 208. For the purposes of this section,
"passenger car" shall not include trucks, truck tractors, recreational
vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles or vehicles used primarily for farm
use and licensed pursuant to state law, 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 1134.
   B.   Subsection A of this section shall not apply to an operator or
passenger of a passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a
written verification from a physician licensed in this state that he is unable
to wear a safety seat belt system for medical reasons. The issuance of such
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety seat belt
system.
   C.   Subsection A of this section shall not apply to an operator of a motor
vehicle who is a route carrier of the U.S. postal service.
   D.   No law enforcement officer shall make routine stops of motorists for
the purpose of enforcing subsection A of this section.
   E.   Any person convicted of violating subsection A of this section shall be
punished by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00), or the maximum amount allowed by
state law, and shall pay court costs.
   F.   As used in subsections F through K of this section, "child passenger
restraint system" means an infant or child passenger restraint system that
meets the federal standards for crash tested restraint systems as set by the
United States department of transportation.
   G.   Every driver when transporting a child under four (4) years of age in a
motor vehicle operated in this city shall properly secure the child in a child
passenger restraint or in a seat belt in the rear of the motor vehicle.
Children four (4) and five (5) years of age shall be protected by use of a
child passenger restraint system or a seat belt.
   H.   Subsection G of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other
motor vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to city
ordinance, state statute or federal law;
      2.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle; or
      3.   A driver of a vehicle if all of the seat belts in the vehicle are in
use; and
      4.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable to
be placed in such devices.
   I.   A law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to stop a vehicle if it
appears that the driver of the vehicle has violated the provisions of
subsection G of this section and to give an oral warning to the driver. The
warning shall advise the driver of the possible danger to children resulting
from the failure to install or use a child passenger restraint system or seat
belts in the motor vehicle.
   J.   A violation of the provisions of subsection G of this section shall not
be admissible as evidence in any civil action or proceeding for damages. In any
action brought by or on behalf of an infant for personal injuries or wrongful
death sustained in a motor vehicle collision, the failure of any person to have
the infant properly restrained in accordance with the provisions of this
section shall not be used in aggravation or mitigation of damages.
   K.   Any person convicted of violating subsection G of this section shall be
punished by a fine of ten dollars ($10.00), or the maximum amount allowed by
state law, and shall pay court costs. The fine shall be suspended in the case
of the first offense upon proof of purchase or acquisition by loan of a child
passenger restraint system. The fine need not be suspended if the child was
being transported in a motor vehicle already equipped with a child passenger
restraint system. (2000 Code §
15-307)
CHAPTER 4
SPEED REGULATIONS
SECTION:
15-401: Speed Limits Generally; Exceptions
15-402: School Zones
15-403: Speed Never To Exceed That Which Is Reasonable Or Prudent For Existing
Conditions
15-404: Minimum Speed Requirements; Exception
15-405: Obedience To Maximum And Minimum Speed Limits
15-401: SPEED LIMITS GENERALLY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than twenty five (25)
miles per hour upon any street or highway within the city except:
      1.   Emergency vehicles being lawfully driven as provided in this title;
      2.   When a different speed limit is otherwise designated and posted; or
      3.   When a different speed limit is established in this title.
   B.   The city council, by motion or resolution, may reduce or increase the
speed limits provided in this title, and when it does so, appropriate signs
shall be placed on such streets or parts of streets indicating the lower or
higher speed limit. (2000 Code §
15-401)
15-402: SCHOOL ZONES:
No vehicle shall be driven at a greater speed than twenty (20) miles per hour
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on
any street adjacent to any school in a designated school zone on days when
school is in session, unless a different speed limit or time is otherwise
designated and posted. (2000 Code §
15-402)
15-403: SPEED NEVER TO EXCEED THAT WHICH IS REASONABLE OR PRUDENT FOR EXISTING
CONDITIONS:
No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater or less than is reasonable
or prudent under the conditions then existing, taking into consideration among
other things, the conditions of the vehicle, the traffic, roadway surface or
width, the amount of light or darkness, the presence of pedestrians in or near
the roadways, and the obstruction of views. No person shall drive any vehicle
at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within the
assured clear distance ahead. (2000 Code §
15-403)
15-404: MINIMUM SPEED REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION:
No vehicle shall be driven at such an unreasonably slow speed in relation to
the effective maximum speed allowed as to constitute a hazard or to interfere
with the normal movement of other traffic, except when the slow speed is
unavoidable. (2000 Code §
15-404)
15-405: OBEDIENCE TO MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM SPEED LIMITS:
Where official signs and markings give notice of both maximum and minimum speed
limits in effect on any street, no vehicle shall be driven at rates in excess
of the maximum nor slower than the minimum, except as required by an authorized
officer or in obedience to posted official signs. (2000 Code §
15-405)
CHAPTER 5
DRIVING, OVERTAKING, PASSING
SECTION:
15-501: Changing Lanes
15-502: Driving On Right Side Of Roadway Required; Exceptions
15-503: When Overtaking On The Right Is Permitted
15-504: Overtaking A Vehicle On The Left
15-505: Limitations On Overtaking On The Left; Exception
15-506: Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Directions
15-507: One-Way Roadways And Rotary Traffic Islands
15-508: Following Too Closely
15-509: No Passing Zones
15-510: Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
15-511: Crossing Fire Hose
15-512: Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession Prohibited; Exceptions
15-513: Drivers In A Procession
15-514: Funeral Processions To Be Identified
15-515: Overtaking And Passing In School Zones
15-516: Overtaking And Passing School Bus
15-517: School Bus Requirements; Lights; Signs; Painting
15-518: Driving Of Vehicles On Sidewalk Prohibited; Exception
15-519: Limitations On Backing Vehicle
15-520: Limitation On Use Of Motorcycles, Bicycles And Motor Scooters
15-520-1: Minibikes, Coasters And Similar Devices
15-521: Required Motorcycle Equipment, Headgear
15-522: Special Speed Limitation On Motorcycles And Motor Scooters
15-523: Clinging To Vehicles Prohibited
15-524: Entering And Leaving Controlled Access Highways
15-525: Possession Of Valid Driver's License Required
15-526: Operation Of Vehicle On Invalid License Prohibited
15-527: Unlawful To Operate Vehicle Without State Vehicle License
15-528: Permitting Unauthorized Person To Drive Prohibited
15-529: Reckless Driving
15-530: Careless Or Negligent Driving, Stopping Or Parking
15-531: Requirement Of Any Person Driving A Vehicle On A Public Way To Operate
Same In A Careful And Prudent Manner
15-532: Driving While Under The Influence Of Drugs
15-533: Driving While Impaired Or Under The Influence Of Alcohol Or Other
Substance
15-534: Transporting Of Low Point Beer Except In Original Unopened Container
Prohibited; Exception
15-535: Unlawful Transportation Of Intoxicating Beverages; Penalty
15-536: Attention To Driving Required
15-537: Speed Contest Prohibited
15-538: Permits Required For Parades And Processions
15-539: Driving Through Safety Zone
15-540: Starting Parked Vehicle
15-541: Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors
15-542: Obstructions To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
15-543: Boarding Or Alighting From Vehicles
15-544: Unlawful Riding
15-545: Railroad Trains Not To Block Streets
15-546: Private Service Drives
15-547: Eluding Police Officer Prohibited
15-548: Truck Weight; Driving And Route Restrictions
15-549: Loads On Vehicles
15-550: Vehicle Approaching Or Entering Intersection
15-551: Vehicle Turning Left At Intersection
15-552: Vehicle Approaching A Yield Right Of Way Sign
15-553: Vehicle Entering Through Highway
15-554: Vehicles Facing Stop, Slow, Warning Or Caution Signal
15-555: Through Streets
15-556: Intersections Where Stop Or Yield Required
15-557: Stop Or Yield Sign Construction And Placement
15-558: Vehicle Entering Stop Intersection
15-559: Vehicle Entering Yield Intersection
15-560: Vehicle Entering Highway From Private Road Or Driveway
15-561: Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
15-562: Vehicles Entering Traffic From Parking
15-563: Emerging From The Alley, Driveway Or Building
15-564: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
15-565: Obedience To Signal Indicating Approach Of Train
15-566: Certain Vehicles To Stop At All Railroad Grade Crossings
15-501: CHANGING LANES:
   A.   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, in addition to all other rules consistent with this
section, a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety and has signaled for a
change of course.
   B.   Where streets or roadways do not have marked traffic lanes, vehicles
shall nevertheless keep in line or follow a straight course as nearly as
practical and shall not weave in and out or turn from side to side
unnecessarily. Vehicles shall move to the right or left only as necessary in
slowing or stopping adjacent to the curb, in passing slow moving vehicles or
making a proper approach for a turn, and this only after the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made safely and has signaled for a change
of course.
   C.   Upon a roadway which has been divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle
shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or
where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving
in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
   D.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway. Drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign. (2000 Code §
15-501)
15-502: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven to the
right of the center of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; and
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   B.   All vehicles shall keep to the right roadway on all streets or highways
which are divided into two (2) roadways.
   C.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (2000 Code §
15-502)
15-503: WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      1.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      2.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction; or
      3.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (2000 Code §
15-503)
15-504: OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the street or roadway until safely clear of
the overtaken vehicle.
   B.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (2000 Code §
15-504)
15-505: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT; EXCEPTION:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the street
or roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the completion of the
overtaking and passing without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every instance, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of
the roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction.
   B.   No vehicle at any time shall be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      1.   When approaching the crest of a grade, or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver's view along the street or highway is obstructed;
or
      2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any bridge,
viaduct or tunnel or when approaching within fifty feet (50') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing. (2000 Code §
15-505)
15-506: PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS:
Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to
the right. Upon roadways having a width for not more than one line of traffic
in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2)
the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (2000 Code §
15-506)
15-507: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   A.   The city manager, subject to such directions as the council may give by
ordinance or resolution, may designate any road, street, alley or highway, or
any separate roadway under their jurisdiction, for one-way traffic and shall
cause appropriate signs giving notice thereof to be erected.
   B.   Whenever the city manager designates any street or alley, or part
thereof, as a one-way street or alley, the city manager shall have placed and
maintained signs giving notice thereof; and no such regulation shall be
effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   C.   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts
of alleys so designated as one-way streets and alleys, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the direction indicated when signs indicating the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   D.   Upon roadways designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   E.   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island. (2000 Code §
15-507)
15-508: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway. (2000 Code §
15-508)
15-509: NO PASSING ZONES:
   A.   The state department of transportation, as regards state and federal
highways, and the city manager as regards all other streets, are hereby
authorized to determine those portions of any highway where overtaking and
passing to the left would be especially hazardous, and may, by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones.
When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver shall obey the directions thereof.
   B.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone as set
forth in subsection A of this section, no driver shall at any time drive to the
left side of the roadway within the no passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark the no passing zone throughout its length.
(2000 Code §
15-509)
15-510: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED:
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (2000 Code §
15-510)
15-511: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department
official in command. (2000 Code §
15-511)
15-512: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or
other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated as required in this chapter. This provision shall not
apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals
or police officers. (2000 Code §
15-512)
15-513: DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION:
Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the right
hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
close as is practical and safe. (2000 Code §
15-513)
15-514: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED:
A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by
the display upon the outside of each vehicle of such identifying insignia as
may be determined and designated by the police department. (2000 Code §
15-514)
15-515: OVERTAKING AND PASSING IN SCHOOL ZONES:
   A.   No driver of a vehicle shall pass any other vehicle which is in motion
and being driven in the same direction in any school zone between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on all days when schools
are in session.
   B.   Wherever a school zone is located on a multiple lane street which is
divided into three (3) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic or where the
right half of the roadway has been divided into two (2) or more lanes, or on
one-way streets, vehicles shall be allowed to pass slower moving vehicles being
driven in the same direction where passing does not involve a change of lane
movement. (2000 Code §
15-515)
15-516: OVERTAKING AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge schoolchildren, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, is to stop his vehicle before it reaches the school
bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed
past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for
the safety of such schoolchildren and other occupants. The red loading visual
signals shall be activated by the driver of the school bus whenever, and only
whenever, such vehicle is stopped on the street or highway for the purpose of
receiving or discharging schoolchildren.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway with separate roadways
need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a different
roadway or when upon a controlled access highway and the school bus is stopped
in a loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such highway and where
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
   C.   Occupants of the school bus shall have the right of way when crossing
the roadway immediately upon leaving the school bus. (2000 Code §
15-516)
15-517: SCHOOL BUS REQUIREMENTS; LIGHTS; SIGNS; PAINTING:
   A.   The provisions of this title shall be applicable only if the school bus
is painted yellow and bears upon the front and rear thereon a plainly visible
sign containing the words "SCHOOL BUS" in letters not less than eight inches
(8") in height which can be removed or covered when the vehicle is not in use
as a school bus.
   B.   The school bus shall be equipped with four (4) red alternately flashing
warning signal lights, two (2) of which shall be located high on the front and
two (2) high on the rear of the vehicle. The lights shall be a minimum of four
inches (4") in diameter and shall be widely separated. (2000 Code §
15-517)
15-518: DRIVING OF VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
No person shall drive any vehicle within or upon any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway. (2000 Code §
15-518)
15-519: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING VEHICLE:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with any other traffic. No
vehicle shall be backed into an intersection. (2000 Code §
15-519)
15-520: LIMITATION ON USE OF MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS:
   A.   No driver of a two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle or
bicycle shall carry any other person upon or within such vehicle on any street
or highway, except as provided in this section:
      1.   If any two (2) wheel or three (3) wheel motor vehicle with a wheel
diameter of twelve inches (12") or greater, or any bicycle, shall have either a
double seating device with double footrests or a sidecar attachment providing a
separate seat space within such sidecar attachment for each person riding
therein so that such person shall be seated entirely within the body of the
sidecar, then it shall be permissible for an operator who has attained the age
of sixteen (16) or older to carry a passenger; and
      2.   A demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his employee is
permissible.
   B.   No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of the
city.
   C.   No rider of a motorcycle, bicycle or motor scooter shall hold onto any
moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
   D.   A person operating a motor scooter, motorcycle, motor driven cycle or
motor bicycle shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto.
   E.   No driver of a motorcycle or motor scooter shall pass other vehicles in
between lanes of traffic traveling in the same direction. Authorized emergency
vehicles are excepted from the provisions of this subsection.
   F.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) shall operate any motorcycle,
motor bicycle or motor scooter within the city between and during the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of one day and four o'clock (4:00) A.M. of the next
day. (2000 Code §
15-520)
15-520-1: MINIBIKES, COASTERS AND SIMILAR DEVICES:
   A.   Defined: For the purpose of this section, a "minibike" or "coaster" is
defined to mean any self-propelled or motor driven cycle having less than an
eight inch (8") wheel rim, or less than a forty inch (40") wheelbase, or less
than a twenty five inch (25") seat height.
   B.   Prohibited Use On Sidewalks And Roadways: No person shall ride on or
operate any electric or gas powered minibike, coaster, toy vehicle or similar
device, excluding golf carts and electric wheelchairs, on any sidewalks or
roadways.
   C.   Parent Responsibility: Any parent, guardian or person who has custody
of a child under fifteen (15) years of age and the child violates this section
is liable for such minor's violation and will be subject to the same penalty as
any person above the age of fifteen (15).
   D.   Penalty: The penalty for violation of this section is by a fine of not
to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus the costs of the proceeding.
(Ord. 201, 4-14-2005)
15-521: REQUIRED MOTORCYCLE EQUIPMENT, HEADGEAR:
   A.   In addition to all other requirements, motorcycles and motor scooters
shall be equipped with the following:
      1.   Handlebars which do not exceed twelve inches (12") in height,
measured from the crown or point of attachment;
      2.   Two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle;
      3.   Brakes adequate to control the movement of the vehicle, to stop and
hold the vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes. One
means for applying the brakes shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the
front wheel, and one means shall be to effectively apply the brakes to the rear
wheels. All such vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the
vehicle which shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between
red and amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred feet (100')
to the rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be activated upon application
of the service brake;
      4.   A properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least the
maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle shall be provided;
      5.   A fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided
by the manufacturer;
      6.   One lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at
least three hundred feet (300') in the direction in which the vehicle is
proceeding, and one taillamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall
emit a red light plainly visible from at least three hundred feet (300') to the
rear. The lights required by this subsection shall be burning whenever the
vehicle is in motion during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to
one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to
insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles
on the streets are not clearly discernible at a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') ahead; and
      7.   A windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to protect
the operator from foreign objects. In lieu of the windshield, the operator
shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect him from
foreign objects.
   B.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall operate or ride upon
any vehicle covered under this section unless the person is equipped with and
wearing on the head a crash helmet of the type and design manufactured for use
by the operators of such vehicles. All crash helmets shall consist of lining,
padding and chinstraps and be of the type as not to distort the view of the
driver. While operating or riding on a vehicle covered hereunder, the
chinstraps shall be fastened.
   C.   No person may operate a motorcycle or motor scooter with the exhaust
system modified so that motor noise is increased greater than that of the
original muffler equipment provided by the manufacturers of the vehicle. (2000
Code §
15-521)
15-522: SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATION ON MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS:
No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed greater
than the speed limit legally posted. In no event nor at any time may an
operator under the age of sixteen (16) years operate a motorcycle or motor
scooter, including a motor driven bicycle, at a speed greater than thirty five
(35) miles per hour, or at any time or any speed when prohibited by state law.
(2000 Code §
15-522)
15-523: CLINGING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon a roadway. (2000
Code §
15-523)
15-524: ENTERING AND LEAVING CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAYS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access highway,
except at entrances and exits established by public authority. (2000 Code §
15-524)
15-525: POSSESSION OF VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the highways without
having in his possession at all times, when operating such motor vehicle, an
unrevoked or unsuspended operator's or chauffeur's license as required by the
laws of the state, unless such person is specifically exempted from such laws
by the provisions thereof. No person charged with violating this section shall
be convicted if he produces in court an operator's or chauffeur's license
issued to him and valid at the time of his arrest.
   B.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner in violation of
any restriction that may be imposed in a restricted license issued to him with
respect to the type of or special mechanical control devices required on a
motor vehicle, or any other restriction applicable to the licensee as the state
may determine. (2000 Code §
15-525)
15-526: OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON INVALID LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle when his privilege to do so is
canceled, suspended, revoked or denied. Any person convicted of violating this
section shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-108 of this code. Each act of driving on the streets or highways as
prohibited by this section shall constitute a separate offense. (2000 Code §
15-526)
15-527: UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE VEHICLE WITHOUT STATE VEHICLE LICENSE:
It is unlawful to operate a vehicle of any kind upon a street of the city
without a state vehicle license as may be required by law, or to fail to
display the state vehicle license as may be required by law. (2000 Code §
15-527)
15-528: PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE PROHIBITED:
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit any vehicle owned by him or under
his control to be driven upon any highway by any person who is not authorized
under the provisions of the laws of the state to operate such vehicle. (2000
Code §
15-528)
15-529: RECKLESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any vehicle in a wanton manner without regard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the sum not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00), including costs. (2000 Code §
15-529)
15-530: CARELESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING, STOPPING OR PARKING:
It is unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, park, cause to be parked,
or stop any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner, or in such a manner as
to endanger life, limb, person or property, or as to interfere with the lawful
movement of traffic or use of the streets. (2000 Code §
15-530)
15-531: REQUIREMENT OF ANY PERSON DRIVING A VEHICLE ON A PUBLIC WAY TO OPERATE
SAME IN A CAREFUL AND PRUDENT MANNER:
Any person driving a vehicle on a public road or way shall drive the same in a
careful and prudent manner and at a careful and prudent speed not greater than
nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface and width of the public way and any other conditions then existing.
(2000 Code §
15-531)
15-532: DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF DRUGS:
   A.   No person shall drive, operate, or be in actual physical control of,
any motor vehicle upon any highway who is under the influence of any substance
included in the uniform controlled dangerous substance act. The fact that any
person charged with a violation of this provision is or has been lawfully
entitled to use such controlled substance shall not constitute a defense.
   B.   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an offense and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
15-532)
15-533: DRIVING WHILE IMPAIRED OR UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR OTHER
SUBSTANCE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of alcohol or
low point beer, or other intoxicating substance as described in subsection C of
this section, to drive, operate or be in actual physical control of any motor
vehicle in the city.
   B.   Any person who operates a motor vehicle while his ability to operate
such motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption of alcohol, low point beer,
or other intoxicating substance as described in subsection C of this section,
shall be subject to punishment as provided in section
1-108 of this code.
   C.   No person who is:
      1.   Under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or low point beer;
      2.   Under the combined influence of alcohol or any other intoxicating
substance as provided in subsection C3 of this section; or
      3.   Under the influence of any other intoxicating substance to a degree
which renders such person incapable of safely driving or operating a motor
vehicle,
shall drive or operate a motor vehicle in the city.
   D.   No person who is a habitual user of or under the influence of any
narcotic drug barbiturate, amphetamine or marijuana, or who is under the
influence of any other drug to a degree which renders him incapable of safely
driving a motor vehicle, shall operate a motor vehicle within the city. The
fact that any person charged with a violation of this subsection is or has been
lawfully entitled to use such narcotic drug, barbiturate, amphetamine,
marijuana or other drug shall not constitute a defense against any charge of
violating this subsection.
   E.   As used in this section, "other intoxicating substance" or "drug" means
any controlled dangerous substance as defined in the uniform controlled
dangerous substances act and any other substance, other than alcohol, which is
capable of being ingested, inhaled, injected or absorbed into the human body
and is capable of adversely affecting the central nervous system, vision,
hearing or other sensory or motor functions.
   F.   Upon the trial of any criminal action or proceeding arising out of acts
alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or low
point beer, evidence of the amount of alcohol or low point beer in the person's
blood as shown by a chemical analysis of his blood or breath is admissible. For
the purpose of this section:
      1.   Evidence that there was five-hundredths of one percent (0.05%) but
less than ten-hundredths of one percent (0.10%) or less by weight of alcohol in
his blood is prima facie evidence that the person was not under the influence
of alcohol or low point beer;
      2.   Evidence that there was more than five-hundredths of one percent
(0.05%) but less than ten-hundredths of one percent (0.10%) by weight of
alcohol in the person's blood is relevant evidence of operating a motor vehicle
while his ability to operate such motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption
of alcohol or low point beer. No person shall be convicted of the offense of
operating a motor vehicle while his ability to operate such vehicle is impaired
by consumption of alcohol or low point beer solely because there was more than
five-hundredths of one percent (0.05%) by weight of alcohol in the person's
blood in the absence of additional evidence that such person's driving was
affected by the consumption of alcohol to the extent that the public health and
safety was threatened or that the person had violated a state statute or local
ordinance in the operation of a motor vehicle;
      3.   Evidence that there was ten-hundredths of one percent (0.10%) or
more by weight of alcohol in his blood shall be admitted as prima facie
evidence that the person was under the influence of alcohol or low point beer;
      4.   Percent by weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon grams
of alcohol per one hundred milliliters (100 ml) of blood; and
      5.   To be admissible, such evidence must first be qualified by
establishing that such specimen was obtained from the subject within not more
than two (2) hours of the arrest of the subject.
   G.   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
15-533)
15-534: TRANSPORTING OF LOW POINT BEER EXCEPT IN ORIGINAL UNOPENED CONTAINER
PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving vehicle upon
a public highway, street or alley any low point beer containing more than one-
half of one percent (0.05%) alcohol by volume and not more than three and two-
tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight, except in the original container which
shall not have been opened and from which the original cap or seal shall not
have been removed, unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear
compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a station wagon
or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not accessible to the
driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion. (2000 Code §
15-534)
15-535: UNLAWFUL TRANSPORTATION OF INTOXICATING BEVERAGES; PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any vehicle upon a
public highway, street or alley within the city any alcoholic beverage except
in the original container which shall not have been opened and the seal upon
which shall not have been broken and from which the original cap or cork shall
not have been removed, unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear
compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a vehicle
commonly known as a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment
which is not accessible to the driver or any person in the vehicle while it is
in motion. (2000 Code §
15-535)
15-536: ATTENTION TO DRIVING REQUIRED:
The operator of every vehicle while driving shall devote his full time and
attention to such driving. (2000 Code §
15-536)
15-537: SPEED CONTEST PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall engage in, aid or abet any motor vehicle speed contest
or exhibition of speed on any street or highway.
   B.   No person shall for the purpose of facilitating or aiding or as an
incident to any motor vehicle speed contest upon any street or highway, in any
manner obstruct or place any barricade or obstruction upon any street or
highway.
   C.   When three (3) or more persons assemble to witness or participate in an
unlawful speed contest, such assembly is unlawful assembly and any person who
participates in such unlawful assembly is guilty of an offense. (2000 Code §
15-537)
15-538: PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
No funeral, procession or parade containing two hundred (200) or more persons,
or fifty (50) or more vehicles, except the military forces of the United States
and the military forces of this state, shall occupy, march or proceed along any
street, except in accordance with a permit issued by the chief of police and
such other regulations as are set forth herein which may apply. (2000 Code §
15-538)
15-539: DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE:
No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone or
island. (2000 Code §
15-539)
15-540: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (2000 Code §
15-540)
15-541: OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so; nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers. (2000 Code §
15-541)
15-542: OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (2000 Code §
15-542)
15-543: BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (2000 Code §
15-543)
15-544: UNLAWFUL RIDING:
No person shall ride on any such vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise. (2000 Code §
15-544)
15-545: RAILROAD TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREETS:
It is unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad train
to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such a manner as to
prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time
longer than five (5) minutes, except that this provision shall not apply to
trains or cars in motion other than those engaged in switching. This section
shall not apply in case of engine failure or train accidents within the city
limits. (2000 Code §
15-545)
15-546: PRIVATE SERVICE DRIVES:
No vehicle or animal shall be driven through any private service driveway or
private service area except for the purpose of obtaining service or
merchandise. (2000 Code §
15-546)
15-547: ELUDING POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED:
No person operating a motor vehicle who has received a visual or audible signal
directing the operator to bring his vehicle to a stop shall wilfully increase
his speed or extinguish his lights or in any other manner attempt to or
actually elude such law enforcement officer. A visual or audible signal for the
purpose of this section means a red light and a siren from a law enforcement
officer driving a motor vehicle with insignia showing the same to be an
official police, sheriff or highway patrol car. (2000 Code §
15-547)
15-548: TRUCK WEIGHT; DRIVING AND ROUTE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The city manager, subject to any direction which the council may give
by motion or resolution, may prescribe routes through the city for the use of
trucks in general, trucks of particular kinds and/or other vehicles which are
not ordinary private passenger vehicles, passing through the city. Appropriate
and adequate signs shall be placed along such routes so that drivers of such
vehicles may follow the routes. When such signs are so erected and in place,
the driver of a truck or other vehicle for which a route has been prescribed,
as provided above, while passing through the city, shall keep on such route and
shall not deviate therefrom, except in case of emergency. Drivers of such
vehicles shall follow such routes so far as practicable also when driving
within the city and not merely through the city.
   B.   No loaded or partially loaded motor vehicle of one ton or more, and no
loaded or partially loaded truck tractor, and no loaded or partially loaded
semitrailer, or combination of such vehicles, shall be driven upon any of the
streets or roads in the city limits unless for the purpose of making a specific
pick up or delivery at a specific point in the city limits which requires
travel on streets, other than the following streets in the city:
      1.   All streets and highways that were formerly section line roads
except Seventh Street;
      2.   Turner Turnpike;
      3.   U.S. Highway 66;
      4.   First Avenue from Elm Street North to U.S. Highway 66; and
      5.   Third Avenue from Elm Street North to Olive Street.
The state laws on limitation of weights shall be applicable to the above
streets, roads and highways within the city limits.
   C.   No truck of one ton or more, no truck tractor or semitrailer shall be
driven along any streets, roads or highways in the city, except those set forth
specifically in subsection A of this section, except for the further purpose of
traveling to the residence of the driver or owner. (2000 Code §
15-548)
15-549: LOADS ON VEHICLES:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load unless
the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent the
covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway. Any vehicle loaded with sand, cinders or other
loose material susceptible to blowing or escaping by reason of wind shall have
the load covered or dampened so as to prevent the blowing or escaping of the
load from the vehicle.
   C.   This section shall not apply to trucks loaded with livestock, poultry
or agricultural products only, except baled agricultural products; provided,
that any such truck shall be so constructed or loaded as to prevent such
livestock or poultry from escaping therefrom. (2000 Code §
15-549)
15-550: VEHICLE APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION:
   A.   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an uncontrolled intersection
from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the
vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right as
otherwise stated in this chapter; however, the driver of a vehicle on a street
which is not a state or federal highway approaching an intersection with a
state or federal highway shall stop and yield the right of way to a vehicle
which has entered the intersection or which is so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   B.   The right of way rule declared in subsection A of this section is
modified at through highways as otherwise stated in this chapter. (2000 Code §
15-550)
15-551: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard. After so yielding and having given signal when and as
required by this title, the driver may make the left turn and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction
shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (2000 Code §
15-551)
15-552: VEHICLE APPROACHING A YIELD RIGHT OF WAY SIGN:
The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield right of way sign shall slow to a
reasonable speed for existing conditions of traffic and visibility, yielding
the right of way to all vehicles on the intersecting street or highway which
have entered the intersection or which are so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard. (2000 Code §
15-552)
15-553: VEHICLE ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAY:
Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by this title at the
entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right of way to other
vehicles which have entered the intersection from the through highway, or which
are approaching so closely on the through highway as to constitute an immediate
hazard. (2000 Code §
15-553)
15-554: VEHICLES FACING STOP, SLOW, WARNING OR CAUTION SIGNAL:
If two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution signs or
signals at an intersection and are approaching as to enter the intersection at
the same time, the following rules shall apply: If each vehicle is required to
stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right of way. If each
vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the
right of way. If each vehicle is required to take caution, the vehicle coming
from the right shall have the right of way. If one vehicle is required to slow
and the other to take caution, the one required to take caution shall have the
right of way. In any event, a vehicle which has already entered the
intersection shall have the right of way over one which has not entered the
intersection. (2000 Code §
15-554)
15-555: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   The city council may designate any street or part of a street a through
street.
   B.   Whenever the city council designates and describes a through street,
the city manager shall have placed and maintained a stop sign, or yield sign if
deemed more appropriate, on every street intersecting a through street, or
intersecting that portion thereof, unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic control signals.
   C.   At the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the
intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated,
stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the streets as may
be determined by the city manager if deemed desirable. (2000 Code §
15-555)
15-556: INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED:
The city council is hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections
upon other than through streets where particular hazards exist and to determine
whether:
   A.   Vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop
intersection, in which event it shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every
such place a stop is required; or
   B.   Vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a different street
as provided in this title, in which event it shall cause to be erected a yield
sign at every place where yield is required. (2000 Code §
15-556)
15-557: STOP OR YIELD SIGN CONSTRUCTION AND PLACEMENT:
Every stop or yield sign erected pursuant to this chapter shall bear the word
"Stop" or "Yield" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in height for a
stop sign and not less than seven inches (7") in height for a yield sign. Every
stop or yield sign shall at night be rendered luminous by steady or flashing
internal illumination, by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign,
or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop or
yield sign shall be located as close as practicable to the nearest line of the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no crosswalk,
then the sign shall be located at the nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
(2000 Code §
15-557)
15-558: VEHICLE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION:
Except when directed by a police officer or traffic control signal, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection, indicated by a stop sign,
shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection.
In the event there is no crosswalk, the driver shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line before entering the intersection. If there is no marked stop line,
then the driver shall stop at the point nearest the intersecting road where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on an intersecting roadway before
entering the intersection. A driver, after having stopped, shall yield the
right of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another
highway or road, or which is approaching so close as to constitute immediate
hazard; but the driver having so yielded may then proceed and the driver of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle so proceeding. (2000 Code §
15-558)
15-559: VEHICLE ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION:
The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in observance to such
sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing condition or shall stop
if necessary and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he is driving and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another road so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver having so yielded may then proceed and drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding. A driver who enters a yield intersection without stopping and has
or causes a collision with a pedestrian at a crosswalk or a vehicle in the
intersection shall prima facie be considered not to have yielded as required
herein. The provisions of this section shall not release the drivers of other
vehicles approaching the intersection at such a distance as not to constitute
immediate hazard from the duty to drive with due care to avoid a collision. The
driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for safety to stop
shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection
before entering the intersection. If there is no crosswalk, the driver shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, or if there is no stop line, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. (2000 Code §
15-559)
15-560: VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY:
The driver of a vehicle about to enter, leave or cross a highway from or into a
private road or driveway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway. (2000 Code §
15-560)
15-561: OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
responding to emergency calls, the driver of every vehicle shall yield the
right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway, clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in the position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   B.   The authorized emergency vehicle, while responding to emergency calls,
shall be equipped with and have in operation at least one lighted lamp
exhibiting a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of the vehicle and the driver
shall give an audible signal by siren or bell.
   C.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons using the highway. (2000 Code §
15-561)
15-562: VEHICLES ENTERING TRAFFIC FROM PARKING:
Any vehicle attempting to reenter traffic while parked at the curb shall yield
the right of way to oncoming traffic in the street approaching from the rear.
The parked vehicle shall proceed into the line of traffic only after the driver
has given the appropriate signal which indicates his intention of turning from
the curb and into the line of traffic. The vehicle shall in no event enter the
line of traffic until the driver has ascertained that no hazard exists. (2000
Code §
15-562)
15-563: EMERGING FROM THE ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right of
way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering
the roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway. (2000 Code §
15-563)
15-564: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (2000 Code §
15-564)
15-565: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN:
   A.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet
(15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he
can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      3.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such
distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
      4.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed. (2000 Code §
15-565)
15-566: CERTAIN VEHICLES TO STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS:
   A.   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of any
school bus carrying any schoolchild, or of any vehicle carrying explosive
substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing
at grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within
fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of
such railroad, and while so stopped, shall listen and look in both directions
along such track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, except as hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed
until he can do so safely. After stopping as required herein and upon
proceeding when it is safe to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall cross
only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing
gears while traversing such crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears
while crossing the track or tracks.
   B.   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed. (2000 Code §
15-566)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
15-601: Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices
15-602: Traffic Control Devices; Uniform Requirements
15-603: Obedience To Official Traffic Control Devices
15-604: When Official Traffic Control Devices Required For Enforcement Purposes
15-605: Traffic Control Signal Legend
15-606: Pedestrians; Signal Indicators; Regulations
15-607: Flashing Signals
15-608: Pedestrian Activated School Crossing Signals
15-609: Unauthorized Traffic Control Devices Prohibited
15-610: Defacement Of Traffic Control Devices
15-611: Play Streets; Authority To Establish
15-612: Play Streets; Restriction On Use
15-613: Designation Of Crosswalks And Safety Zones
15-614: Traffic Lanes
15-601: AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The city council, by motion or resolution, shall have placed and maintained
traffic control signs, signals and devices when and as required under the
traffic ordinances of this city to make effective the provisions of such
ordinances, and may have placed and maintained such additional traffic control
signs, signals and devices as it may deem necessary to regulate traffic under
the traffic ordinances of this city or under state law, or to guide or warn
traffic. (2000 Code §
15-601)
15-602: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the
manual of uniform traffic control devices approved by the state department of
public safety.
   B.   All signs, signals and devices required hereunder for a particular
purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and relative location
throughout the city. All traffic control devices erected and not inconsistent
with the provisions of state law or this chapter shall be official traffic
control devices. (2000 Code §
15-602)
15-603: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject
to the exemptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
title. (2000 Code §
15-603)
15-604: WHEN OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT
PURPOSES:
No provision of this chapter for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. If a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place. (2000 Code §
15-604)
15-605: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
The display of signal lights, arrows and words shall be deemed to have the
following meanings and requires the appropriate response on the part of
vehicular traffic and pedestrians:
   A.   Green alone, "Go":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited, may
proceed straight through or turn right or left, unless an official sign at such
place prohibits such turn, but any vehicle and any pedestrian lawfully within
the intersection or adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal displays green
shall have the right of way over such vehicular traffic; and
      2.   Pedestrian traffic, facing a green signal, may proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk, unless a "Walk" signal
indicator is operating;
   B.   Steady yellow or amber alone, "Caution":
      1.   The showing of such signal color following green shall constitute a
warning that the "Red" or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately
thereafter; and
      2.   Vehicles facing the signal shall stop before entering the near side
crosswalk or at the limit line, if it is marked, unless the vehicle is so near
the limit line when the "Caution" signal first flashes that a stop cannot be
made in safety, in which event vehicles may proceed cautiously through the
intersection and clear the same before the "Red" signal flashes;
   C.   Red alone, "Stop":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is shown alone. Except
where official signs are erected prohibiting such turns, vehicles in the right
traffic lane, after making a full stop as required, may enter the intersection
cautiously and make a right turn, but such vehicles shall yield the right of
way to any pedestrians or other traffic in the intersection and the turn shall
be made so as not to interfere in any way with traffic proceeding on a green
signal indication on the cross street; and
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal shall not enter or cross the roadway
when such movement interferes with traffic proceeding on a green signal
indication on the cross street, or when the movement cannot be made in safety.
No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the green or
"Go" is shown alone unless authorized to do so, by a pedestrian "Walk" signal;
   D.   Steady red with green arrow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal when in the proper traffic lane
may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by
the arrow, but shall yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If the movement
indicated by the green arrow is a left turn, the left turn shall be made only
on the red with green arrow signal; and
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian "Walk"
signal; and
   E.   Green arrows alone. Whenever vehicular traffic movements are controlled
by green arrows alone and not displayed with any other signal indication,
vehicles facing such signals may make the movements indicated by the green
arrows and the movements shall be made only when the green arrows are
displayed. (2000 Code §
15-605)
15-606: PEDESTRIANS; SIGNAL INDICATORS; REGULATIONS:
Special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "Walk", "Wait" or
"Don't Walk" shall regulate pedestrian movement as follows:
   A.   "Walk". Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by the
drivers of all vehicles; and
   B.   "Wait" or "Don't Walk". No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the "Walk" signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone
while the "Wait" signal is showing. (2000 Code §
15-606)
15-607: FLASHING SIGNALS:
   A.   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in
traffic signs or signals, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows:
      1.   "Flashing red". When a red light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject
to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign; and
      2.   "Flashing yellow". When a yellow light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection,
or pass such signal only with caution.
   B.   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. (2000 Code §
15-607)
15-608: PEDESTRIAN ACTIVATED SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS:
Whenever a pedestrian activated school crossing signal is provided, it requires
obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians as follows:
   A.   "Flashing yellow":
      1.    When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or pass
such signal only with caution; and
      2.   Pedestrians shall not proceed in conflict with traffic, but may
activate the signal control switch, and shall wait until steady red alone is
shown before entering the roadway or intersection controlled by the signal;
   B.   "Steady yellow alone":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection or pass the signal when
the red or "Stop" signal is exhibited; and
      2.   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or intersection on which the
signal controls vehicular traffic until steady red alone is shown;
   C.   "Steady red":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, and shall remain standing until
flashing yellow is shown alone;
      2.   Pedestrians may proceed across the road controlled by the signal,
and shall be given the right of way by the drivers of all vehicles; and
   D.   "Steady red and steady yellow combined":
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
flashing yellow signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that such
vehicular traffic shall remain standing until the flashing yellow is shown
alone; and
      2.   Pedestrians are thereby warned that the flashing yellow signal is
about to be shown, and shall not enter the signal controlled roadway or
intersection, or in a direction which conflicts with the movement of vehicular
traffic; but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing shall
proceed to the nearest sidewalk or safety island, and shall be given the right
of way by the drivers of all vehicles. (2000 Code §
15-608)
15-609: UNAUTHORIZED TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   B.   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   C.   This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private property
adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information which are
of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device may be removed without
notice. (2000 Code §
15-609)
15-610: DEFACEMENT OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
destroy, deface, molest, interfere, tamper, injure, knock down, remove or have
in his possession any traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal, or
an inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to any of the following persons when
acting within the scope and duty of their employment:
      1.   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any governmental agency; or
      2.   Any officer, agent, independent contractor, employee, servant or
trustee of any contractor, public utility or railroad company. (2000 Code §
15-610)
15-611: PLAY STREETS; AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH:
The city manager, subject to any directions which the council may give, shall
have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play street and to have
placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping to
protect the same. (2000 Code §
15-611)
15-612: PLAY STREETS; RESTRICTION ON USE:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street, or part thereof,
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street, or
portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area; and then any such driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof. (2000 Code §
15-612)
15-613: DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
The city manager, subject to any directions which the council may give, may:
   A.   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the
surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in its option there
is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such other
places as it may deem necessary; and
   B.   Establish safety zones or islands of such kind and character and at
such places as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (2000
Code §
15-613)
15-614: TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   The city manager, subject to any directions which the council may give,
may be authorized to have traffic lanes marked upon the roadway of any street
where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   B.   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement or otherwise authorized by
ordinance. (2000 Code §
15-614)
CHAPTER 7
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING GENERALLY
SECTION:
15-701: Illegal Parking Declared Public Nuisance
15-702: Application Of Standing Or Parking Regulations
15-703: Parking Time Limits May Be Established; Signs
15-704: Parking More Than Twenty Four Hours
15-705: Brakes; Motor Not To Be Left Running
15-706: Signs Or Markings Indicating Angle Parking
15-707: Obedience To Angle Parking Signs Or Markings
15-708: Parking In Spaces Marked Off
15-709: Permits For Loading Or Unloading At An Angle To The Curb
15-710: Hazardous Or Congested Places; Stopping, Standing, Parking
15-711: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
15-712: Blocking Of Intersection Or Crosswalk Prohibited
15-713: Standing Or Parking On One-Way Roadway
15-714: Standing Or Parking On Left Side Of One-Way Streets
15-715: Parking Adjacent To Schools
15-716: Parking Prohibited At Intersections
15-717: Parking In Alleys, Blocking Driveways
15-718: Entry On Private Property; Trespass; Evidence; Burden Of Proof
15-719: Truck Parking Prohibited
15-720: Double Parking
15-721: Parking Prohibited For Trucks Transporting Hazardous Materials
15-722: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
15-723: Method Of Parking, Standing Or Parking Close To Curb
15-724: Negligent Parking
15-725: Right Of Way To Parallel Parking Space
15-726: Handicapped Parking Restrictions
15-701: ILLEGAL PARKING DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any vehicle in violation of any regulation contained in this chapter governing,
limiting or prohibiting the parking or standing of a vehicle on any street or
public thoroughfare is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, and
each separate traffic citation issued as authorized herein for such violation
shall constitute a separate notice thereof to the owner or operator of such
vehicle. (2000 Code §
15-701)
15-702: APPLICATION OF STANDING OR PARKING REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable when it is necessary for
a vehicle to stop to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device. (2000
Code §
15-702)
15-703: PARKING TIME LIMITS MAY BE ESTABLISHED; SIGNS:
The city manager, subject to such direction as the council may give by motion
or resolution, may establish parking time limits or prohibit parking on
designated streets or parts of streets and have appropriate signs placed on the
streets. When the signs are in place, it is unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle in violation of the sign. No such time limits shall be effective unless
a sign is erected and in place at the time of the alleged violation. (2000 Code
§
15-703)
15-704: PARKING MORE THAN TWENTY FOUR HOURS:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street for a period of time longer than
twenty four (24) hours. No person shall park a vehicle on any public parking
lot owned or controlled by the city for a period of time longer than seventy
two (72) hours; however, the city manager may, under such rules, regulations or
directions as the city council may establish, grant special permission for a
person to park a vehicle on a public parking lot owned or controlled by the
city for a period of time in excess of seventy two (72) hours. This section
shall not affect parking limits established for shorter periods. (2000 Code §
15-704)
15-705: BRAKES; MOTOR NOT TO BE LEFT RUNNING:
Adequate brakes shall be set on all parked vehicles. No driver of a motor
vehicle shall leave the vehicle with the motor running while parked. (2000 Code
§
15-705)
15-706: SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING:
The city manager, subject to such direction as the city council may give by
motion or resolution, shall determine upon what streets and parts of streets
angle parking shall be permitted, and shall have such streets marked or signed.
(2000 Code §
15-706)
15-707: OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS:
On those streets which have been so signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings. (2000 Code §
15-707)
15-708: PARKING IN SPACES MARKED OFF:
In an area where parking spaces have been marked off on the surface of the
street, a driver parking a vehicle shall park it within a parking space as thus
marked off, and not on or over a line delimiting a space. (2000 Code §
15-708)
15-709: PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT AN ANGLE TO THE CURB:
   A.   The city manager is authorized to issue special permits to permit the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to
the owner of the vehicle, and shall grant to such person the privilege as
therein stated and authorized herein. The city manager may revoke such permits
at any time.
   B.   It is unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of any such permit. (2000 Code §
15-709)
15-710: HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES; STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING:
   A.   The city manager is hereby authorized to determine and regulate by
proper signs the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles when such stopping,
standing or parking would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
   B.   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, as
authorized in subsection A of this section, no person shall violate such signs.
(2000 Code §
15-710)
15-711: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except in emergencies or
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law
or the directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk, sidewalk area, or between the sidewalk and the
street;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant, except in a parking
space officially marked;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station, and on the side of street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of the entrance when properly signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; or
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or an unlawful distance away from a curb. (2000 Code §
15-711)
15-712: BLOCKING OF INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK PROHIBITED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed. (2000 Code §
15-712)
15-713: STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAY:
   A.   If a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
   B.   The city council may determine when standing or parking may be
permitted upon the left hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect
signs giving notice thereof. (2000 Code §
15-713)
15-714: STANDING OR PARKING ON LEFT SIDE OF ONE-WAY STREETS:
The city manager may have signs erected upon the left hand side of any one-way
street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles. When the signs are in
place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of any such signs.
(2000 Code §
15-714)
15-715: PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
   A.   The city manager may have signs erected indicating no parking upon
either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such
parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation.
   B.   No person shall park a vehicle in violation of any such signs. (2000
Code §
15-715)
15-716: PARKING PROHIBITED AT INTERSECTIONS:
The parking of vehicles at the curb where streets intersect shall be prohibited
fifteen feet (15') in advance of the crosswalk on the near side of such
intersection. (2000 Code §
15-716)
15-717: PARKING IN ALLEYS, BLOCKING DRIVEWAYS:
No person shall park a vehicle within a street or alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within a street or alley in such position
as to block a driveway entrance to any abutting property. (2000 Code §
15-717)
15-718: ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; TRESPASS; EVIDENCE; BURDEN OF PROOF:
   A.   No person shall make an entry with any vehicle upon real property owned
or legally occupied by another without the owner's or occupant's consent,
except where such private property is provided as public parking and the
general use of the property is not restricted by signs or proper markings.
   B.   Where entry is made upon real property owned or legally occupied by
another without the owner's or occupant's consent, except on unrestricted
public parking, and is complained of by the owner or legal occupant of the
premises, the burden is put upon the person making the entry to show that
permission for such entry was given. (2000 Code §
15-718)
15-719: TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or corporation to
park any of the following vehicles which exceed a weight limit of one ton on
any street or alley in the city, except as provided in subsection B of this
section:
      1.   Truck;
      2.   Bus;
      3.   Tractor;
      4.   Trailer;
      5.   Truck-trailer, semitrailer, or combination of any of the above; or
      6.   Any other commercial vehicle.
   B.   The vehicles listed in subsection A of this section may be parked
entirely on private property so long as they are in the area dedicated for use
as a public street and so long as they do not obstruct the usage of the streets
by other vehicles and pedestrians. They may also be parked on the following
streets:
      1.   All streets and highways that were formerly section line roads,
except Seventh Street;
      2.   Turner Turnpike;
      3.   U.S. Highway 66;
      4.   First Avenue from Elm Street North to U.S. Highway 66; and
      5.   Third Avenue from Elm Street North to Olive Street. (2000 Code §
15-719)
15-720: DOUBLE PARKING:
   A.   No driver shall double park or double stop a vehicle under the
following conditions:
      1.   Within fifty feet (50') of an intersection, except alley
intersections, or within ten feet (10') of an alley intersection;
      2.   Opposite a double parked or double stopped vehicle across the
street;
      3.   When such double parking or double stopping would or does block or
interfere materially with the normal movement of traffic;
      4.   When parking space adjacent to the curb is available;
      5.   When directed by a police officer to move on; or
      6.   In any position other than parallel to the curb and within two feet
(2') of the adjacent vehicle parked next to the curb.
   B.   A driver may double park or double stop a vehicle only as authorized in
this section. There must be a licensed driver in any vehicle while it is double
parked or double stopped.
   C.   A driver may double stop for the purpose of, but only while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers; subject,
however, to all the general conditions hereinabove set out.
   D.   A driver may double park for the purpose of, but only while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading or unloading of merchandise; subject,
however, to all the general conditions hereinabove set out. No such vehicle
shall be double parked longer than ten (10) minutes. (2000 Code §
15-720)
15-721: PARKING PROHIBITED FOR TRUCKS TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
It is unlawful to park, store or otherwise let stand a truck or other vehicle
which is used for the purpose of transporting or delivering flammable and
combustible liquids, as defined by the fire prevention code of the American
Insurance Association, and trucks or other vehicles which are used for the
transportation and delivery of liquefied petroleum gases in any area within the
city, except areas which are zoned industrial 3 and industrial 4. However, the
trucks and vehicles restricted in this section may be temporarily parked at
locations otherwise zoned for the purpose of loading and unloading flammable
and combustible liquids and liquefied petroleum gases for a period not to
exceed one and one-half (11/2) hours during any twenty four (24) hour period.
(2000 Code §
15-721)
15-722: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the purpose of:
   A.   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
   B.   Displaying advertising or displaying merchandise or other things for
sale or selling merchandise or other things; or
   C.   Washing, cleaning or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency. (2000 Code §
15-722)
15-723: METHOD OF PARKING, STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs, shall be so stopped or parked
with the right hand wheels of the vehicle parallel to and within eighteen
inches (18") of the right hand curb. Any vehicle stopped or parked upon the
left hand side of a one-way street where there are adjacent curbs shall be
parked or stopped with the left hand wheels parallel to and within eighteen
inches (18") of the left hand curb. (2000 Code §
15-723)
15-724: NEGLIGENT PARKING:
No person shall park, cause to be parked, stop or leave unattended any vehicle
as follows:
   A.   In a careless or negligent manner;
   B.   In such a manner as to endanger life, limb, person or property; or
   C.   In such manner as to endanger or interfere with the lawful traffic or
use of the streets. (2000 Code §
15-724)
15-725: RIGHT OF WAY TO PARALLEL PARKING SPACE:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle intending to occupy a parallel parking space
where a backing movement is necessary and which is being vacated by another
vehicle shall stop his vehicle to the rear of the parking space until the
vacating vehicle has cleared and entered normal traffic. He then shall be
deemed to have the right of way to such parking space over any other vehicle
attempting to park therein.
   B.   The first of two (2) or more vehicles to reach the rear boundary of an
unoccupied parallel parking space where a backing movement is necessary to
occupy, shall be deemed to have the right of way to such parking space. (2000
Code §
15-725)
15-726: HANDICAPPED PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in any
parking space on private property accessible to the public and where the public
is invited or public property that is designated and posted as a reserved area
for parking of motor vehicles of a physically disabled person, unless such
person has a physical disability insignia as under the provisions of 47
Oklahoma Statutes section 15-112, and such insignias are displayed as provided
in 47 Oklahoma Statutes section 15-112 or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
15-726)
CHAPTER 8
LOADING
SECTION:
15-801: Definitions
15-802: Curb Loading Zones; Designation
15-803: Loading Zones To Be Used Only For Designated Purpose
15-804: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In Passenger Curb Loading Zone
15-805: Stopping, Standing Or Parking In Freight Curb Loading Zone
15-806: Designation Of Public Carrier Stops And Stands
15-807: Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands Restricted
15-808: Stopping, Standing And Parking Of Buses And Taxis
15-801: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: A. A truck designated for delivery purposes with the name
of the owner or his business painted on both sides of the vehicle, regularly
used during normal business hours for the delivery and handling of merchandise
or freight and which bears a regular state commercial license tag; and
   B.   A passenger vehicle used regularly and actually engaged during normal
business hours in the delivery and handling of merchandise or freight, and
which bears a special numbered license plate issued by the city at the rear of
the vehicle attached to the state license plate, together with an identically
numbered decal, issued vehicle.
FREIGHT LOADING ZONES: All curb loading zones authorized and regularly used
exclusively for the loading and unloading of merchandise for storage, trade,
shipment or resale.
PASSENGER LOADING ZONES: All loading zones authorized and used regularly and
exclusively for the loading and unloading of passengers, except bus stops,
taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common carrier vehicles. (2000
Code §
15-801)
15-802: CURB LOADING ZONES; DESIGNATION:
   A.   The city manager, subject to any directions which the council may give
by ordinance or resolution, may determine the location of passenger and freight
curb loading zones, and shall have placed and maintained appropriate signs
indicating the zones and stating the hours during which the provisions of this
section are applicable.
   B.   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in violation of signs erected
in accordance with this section.
   C.   If any loading zone is established on request of any person, the signs
shall not be placed until the applicant pays to the city an amount of money
estimated by the city council to be adequate to reimburse the city for all
costs of establishing and signing the same. (2000 Code §
15-802)
15-803: LOADING ZONES TO BE USED ONLY FOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE:
No curb loading zone authorized and established as a passenger loading zone
shall be used as a freight loading zone, and no freight loading zone shall be
used as a passenger loading zone except as may be specifically provided by law.
(2000 Code §
15-803)
15-804: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a passenger curb loading zone
for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers, during the hours when the regulations applicable to
such curb loading zones are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed
three (3) minutes. (2000 Code §
15-804)
15-805: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a commercial curb
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pick up and loading of materials during hours when
the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall the
stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes.
Vehicles using any commercial loading zone shall be subject to the licensing
requirements and regulations provided by this title.
   B.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any commercial vehicle which is waiting to enter the zone. (2000
Code §
15-805)
15-806: DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS:
The city manager may establish loading zones for common carriers, including,
but not limited to, bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other
passenger common carrier motor vehicles, on such public streets in such places
and in such number as it shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and
convenience to the public. Every such loading zone shall be designated by
appropriate signs. (2000 Code §
15-806)
15-807: USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS RESTRICTED:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, other than a bus in a bus stop,
or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand has
been officially designated and the appropriate signs are in place. The driver
of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping
does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter
the zone. (2000 Code §
15-807)
15-808: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXIS:
   A.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
   B.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
   C.   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches (18") from the
curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede
the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   D.   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers. (2000 Code §
15-808)
CHAPTER 9
TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION:
15-901: Turning Markers Or Indicators
15-902: Designation Of Restricted Turns
15-903: Obedience To No Turn Signs
15-904: U-Turns
15-905: Position And Method Of Turning
15-906: Turning Movements And Required Signals
15-907: Means Of Giving Turn Signals
15-908: Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals
15-909: Turns Into Or From Alleys
15-901: TURNING MARKERS OR INDICATORS:
   A.   The city manager, subject to any directions which the council may give
by motion or resolution, is authorized to place markers, buttons or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at such intersections. The course to be traveled, as so
indicated, may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
   B.   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed within
an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications. (2000 Code §
15-901)
15-902: DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED TURNS:
The city council is hereby authorized to determine those street intersections
at which drivers of vehicles shall not make right, left or U-turns, and shall
have proper signs placed at the intersections. The making of the turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours. Where
turns are restricted during certain hours pursuant to this section, the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when turns are
permitted. (2000 Code §
15-902)
15-903: OBEDIENCE TO NO TURN SIGNS:
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-turn
is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall not disobey the directions of any
such sign. (2000 Code §
15-903)
15-904: U-TURNS:
   A.   Prohibited Locations: The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the
vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in the city
at the following locations:
      1.   At intersections controlled by traffic control devices or signals
unless such turns are specifically authorized;
      2.   Where a police officer is directing traffic, except at the latter's
direction; or
      3.   At any other location where an official "no U-turn" has been placed
and is maintained;
      4.   At any midblock location other than an intersection.
   B.   Manner Of Making U-Turns: A U-turn may be made only when it can be made
in safety and without interfering with other traffic. No person shall make a U-
turn except in the following manner:
      1.   By approaching the intersection as closely as practical to the right
curb or edge of the roadway, the driver giving and continuing to give a signal
for a left turn until the turn is completed, proceeding to make the turn across
the intersection;
      2.   In one continuous movement without stopping or backing the vehicle;
      3.   By yielding the right of way at all times to all vehicles until such
turn is completed; and
      4.   Without constituting a hazard to or interfering with any other
vehicle. (2000 Code §
15-904)
15-905: POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows:
   A.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and the execution of a
right turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge
of the roadway;
   B.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
the approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the street nearest the center thereof by passing to the right of the centerline
where it enters the intersection. After entering the intersection, the left
turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection; or
   C.   Left Turns, On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection, as
nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon roadway being entered. (2000 Code §
15-905)
15-906: TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS:
   A.   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required in section
15-905 of this chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left, slow or stop when
required, shall be given continuously during not less than the last one hundred
feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before turning or stopping.
   C.   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
the signal. (2000 Code §
15-906)
15-907: MEANS OF GIVING TURN SIGNALS:
   A.   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by
means of hand or arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps, or mechanical device of a
type approved by the Oklahoma department of public safety, except as provided
in subsection B of this section.
   B.   A vehicle shall be equipped with, and the required signal given by,
signal lamps or devices when:
      1.   The body or cab of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle projects
twenty four inches (24") or more to the left of the center of the steering
wheel;
      2.   Under any condition where a hand and arm signal would not be visible
both to the front and rear of the vehicle; or
      3.   The rear limit of the body of a vehicle or the load of any vehicle
projects fourteen feet (14') or more beyond the center top of the steering
post. (2000 Code §
15-907)
15-908: METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
   A.   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
   B.   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward; and
   C.   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward with palm to the
rear. (2000 Code §
15-908)
15-909: TURNS INTO OR FROM ALLEYS:
   A.   No vehicles shall turn left when proceeding into or proceeding out of
an alley, except when necessary to enter a one-way street, and no vehicle shall
cross any street or highway when proceeding into or proceeding out of any
alley, except as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Left turns may be made when proceeding out of an alley if a traffic
survey conducted by the traffic engineer shows that such turn may be made
safely and official signs are erected authorizing such turns.
   C.   The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply to bus
terminals used by licensed and authorized bus lines. (2000 Code §
15-909)
CHAPTER 10
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
15-1001: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic Control Signals
15-1002: Pedestrian Right Of Way At Crosswalks
15-1003: Pedestrians To Use Right Half Of Crosswalk
15-1004: Crossing At Right Angles
15-1005: When Pedestrians Shall Yield
15-1006: Pedestrians Walking Along Roadways
15-1007: Pedestrians Prohibited From Soliciting Rides, Business Or Donations
From Vehicle Occupants
15-1008: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
15-1009: Crossing Prohibited
15-1010: Obedience Of Pedestrians To Railroad Signals
15-1001: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as provided for in this
title, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter. (2000 Code §
15-1001)
15-1002: PEDESTRIAN RIGHT OF WAY AT CROSSWALKS:
   A.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way by slowing down or stopping,
if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when:
      1.   The pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling; or
      2.   The pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite edge of
the roadway as to be in danger.
The provisions of this subsection are not applicable under conditions where
pedestrians are required to yield pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety or
walk or run into the path of the vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
   C.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk, or any unmarked
crosswalk, or at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, the
driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake to
pass such stopped vehicle. (2000 Code §
15-1002)
15-1003: PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK:
Pedestrians, when crossing the street at a crosswalk, shall move, whenever
practicable, upon the right half of the crosswalk. (2000 Code §
15-1003)
15-1004: CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES:
No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at right
angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except in a
crosswalk. (2000 Code §
15-1004)
15-1005: WHEN PEDESTRIANS SHALL YIELD:
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   The provisions of this section are not applicable where pedestrian
crossings are prohibited. (2000 Code §
15-1005)
15-1006: PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall, when practical, walk only on the left side of the roadway, or
its shoulder, facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction,
and shall yield to approaching vehicles. (2000 Code §
15-1006)
15-1007: PEDESTRIANS PROHIBITED FROM SOLICITING RIDES, BUSINESS OR DONATIONS
FROM VEHICLE OCCUPANTS:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for purpose of soliciting a ride,
donations, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall:
      1.   Stand in any street, roadway or park and stop or attempt to stop and
engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting contributions or
the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a
street;
      2.   Sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any vehicle;
      3.   Hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir or gift; or
      4.   In any other manner, while standing in the street or roadway,
attempt to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other similar
purpose. (2000 Code §
15-1007)
15-1008: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person on the roadway. (2000 Code §
15-1008)
15-1009: CROSSING PROHIBITED:
Between adjacent intersections, at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall not cross any divided highway having a median in the center
thereof, except in a crosswalk. (2000 Code §
15-1009)
15-1010: OBEDIENCE OF PEDESTRIANS TO RAILROAD SIGNALS:
No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed. (2000 Code §
15-1010)
CHAPTER 11
BICYCLES
SECTION:
15-1101: Application Of Bicycle Regulations
15-1102: Application Of Traffic Laws To Bicycles
15-1103: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
15-1104: Riding On Bicycles
15-1105: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
15-1106: Speed Of Bicycle
15-1107: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
15-1108: Carrying Articles
15-1109: Parking
15-1110: Riding On Sidewalks
15-1111: Lamps And Equipment On Bicycles
15-1101: APPLICATION OF BICYCLE REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon
any street or upon any public way, or upon any path set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated in this chapter. (2000 Code
§
15-1101)
15-1102: APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS TO BICYCLES:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this state and the traffic provisions of this title applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and
except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature are
inapplicable to such persons. (2000 Code §
15-1102)
15-1103: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the directions
of such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians. (2000 Code §
15-1103)
15-1104: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   A.   No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (2000 Code §
15-1104)
15-1105: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   A.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle proceeding in the same direction.
   B.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two (2)
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
   C.   If usable paths for bicycles are provided adjacent to a roadway,
bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use the roadway. (2000 Code §
15-1105)
15-1106: SPEED OF BICYCLE:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (2000 Code §
15-1106)
15-1107: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley or driveway shall, upon
approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the alley or driveway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area. Upon entering the roadway, the bicycle operator shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadways. (2000 Code §
15-1107)
15-1108: CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article which
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handlebars. (2000 Code
§
15-1108)
15-1109: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against the building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (2000 Code §
15-1109)
15-1110: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   B.   The city council, by motion or resolution, is authorized to have
erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles
thereon by any person; and when such signs are in place, no person shall
disobey the same.
   C.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (2000 Code §
15-1110)
15-1111: LAMPS AND EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES:
   A.   Bicycles in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the front
which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five hundred
feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear
when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500')
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least one
hundred feet (100').
   C.   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use, any
siren or whistle.
   D.   Bicycles shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (2000 Code §
15-1111)
CHAPTER 12
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
15-1201: Purpose And Effect Of Impoundment Provisions
15-1202: Place Of Impoundment
15-1203: Duration Of Impoundment
15-1204: Police Granted Authority To Impound Vehicles
15-1205: Disabled Vehicles
15-1206: Vehicles On Bridge
15-1207: Arrest And Detention Of Driver Of Vehicle
15-1208: Vehicle Constituting Traffic Hazard
15-1209: Illegal Trespass By Vehicle
15-1210: Vehicles Parked Overtime
15-1211: Vehicles Blocking Fire Exits Or Hydrants
15-1212: Vehicles Parked In Intersection
15-1213: Stolen Vehicles; Recovery By Police
15-1214: Vehicles With Outstanding Traffic Citations
15-1201: PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS:
The impoundment of vehicles under authority of the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed as an enforcement procedure for protection of the public
peace, safety and welfare, and the safeguarding of property, and shall be used
generally for the prevention and removal of traffic hazards, prevention and
abatement of public nuisances arising from traffic law violations, protection
of the public rights in the use of streets and thoroughfares from obstructions
placed and left in derogation of those rights, and for safeguarding and
protecting recovered stolen vehicles. (2000 Code §
15-1201)
15-1202: PLACE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
Every vehicle that is impounded under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed to the nearest garage or place of safekeeping designated by the city
council, and to no other place. (2000 Code §
15-1202)
15-1203: DURATION OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided, any vehicle impounded under the authority
of this chapter shall be stored and held safely until an order for its release
is received from an officer of the traffic violations bureau or other proper
police officer.
   B.   The order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned upon
the payment by the person to whom the release is issued of all impoundment
costs and accrued storage charges assessed against the vehicle.
   C.   No order of release of an impounded vehicle shall be issued until all
fines and costs due the city because of traffic law or other law violations
involving the vehicle have been paid. (2000 Code §
15-1203)
15-1204: POLICE GRANTED AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized within the limits set
forth in this chapter to impound vehicles under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated. No impoundment shall be valid unless made under order of an
authorized police officer and in strict adherence with the procedures required
in this chapter. (2000 Code §
15-1204)
15-1205: DISABLED VEHICLES:
A disabled vehicle upon a street or highway may be impounded under the
following circumstances:
   A.   If left unattended and improperly parked on street or highway and
constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
or
   B.   If the person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
such extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal and the
vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic or a hazard.
(2000 Code §
15-1205)
15-1206: VEHICLES ON BRIDGE:
An unattended vehicle left upon any bridge, viaduct or causeway, or in any tube
or tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hazard,
may be impounded. (2000 Code §
15-1206)
15-1207: ARREST AND DETENTION OF DRIVER OF VEHICLE:
Whenever the driver or person in charge of any vehicle is placed under arrest
and taken into custody and detained by police under circumstances which leaves
or will leave a vehicle unattended on any street or highway, the vehicle may be
impounded. (2000 Code §
15-1207)
15-1208: VEHICLE CONSTITUTING TRAFFIC HAZARD:
A vehicle left unattended upon any street, alley or thoroughfare and so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic shall be impounded. (2000 Code §
15-1208)
15-1209: ILLEGAL TRESPASS BY VEHICLE:
   A.   An unattended vehicle found to be in violation of this title may be
impounded when the required complaint has been properly made and filed as
provided in this section.
   B.   If a violation of the provisions of this title occurs, the owner or
legal occupant who complains shall sign a complaint against the person parking
the vehicle on the owner's or legal occupant's property, or if the identity of
the person parking the vehicle is unknown, then the complaint may be filed
against the registered owner of the vehicle. The complaint shall be verified
and shall allege that the complaining party is the owner or legal occupant of
the property upon which the vehicle is parked or standing.
   C.   Upon filing of the complaint by the property owner or legal occupant,
and if there appears to be proper cause to believe the provisions of this title
have been violated, the police department shall cause the vehicle to be
impounded from the property and placed in storage. (2000 Code §
15-1209)
15-1210: VEHICLES PARKED OVERTIME:
Any unattended vehicle which has been parked for more than one hour in excess
of the time allowed for parking in any place shall be impounded, and any
vehicle parked in violation of section
15-704 of this title, regarding more than twenty four (24) hours, shall be
impounded. (2000 Code §
15-1210)
15-1211: VEHICLES BLOCKING FIRE EXITS OR HYDRANTS:
Any vehicle illegally parked in such a manner that it blocks a fire escape
ladder, device or exit or blocks ready access to a fire hydrant shall be
impounded. (2000 Code §
15-1211)
15-1212: VEHICLES PARKED IN INTERSECTION:
Any unattended vehicle illegally parked in any street intersection shall be
impounded. A disabled vehicle in an intersection with the person in charge of
the vehicle being present, shall be moved out of the intersection and to the
nearest available legal parking space at the street curbing. (2000 Code §
15-1212)
15-1213: STOLEN VEHICLES; RECOVERY BY POLICE:
   A.   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered owner
cannot be found within a reasonable time, not exceeding one hour, or cannot be
determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in the
vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen cars,
the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place to impoundment and
the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of the
place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police department.
   B.   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within the period of one hour
from the time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is
unable or unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified, the
vehicle may be impounded. (2000 Code §
15-1213)
15-1214: VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
Any vehicle for which two (2) or more citations have been issued pursuant to
this title for violation of an ordinance, and have not been presented as
required, may be impounded if parked in violation of any provision of this
title. (2000 Code §
15-1214)
CHAPTER 13
PENALTIES
SECTION:
15-1301: Obedience To Traffic Code
15-1302: Penalties
15-1301: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE:
   A.   It is an offense against the city for any person to do any act
forbidden or to fail to perform any act required by this title.
   B.   It is an offense against the city for the parent of any child or for
the guardian of any ward to authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this title.
   C.   It is an offense for any person to authorize or knowingly to permit any
vehicle registered in his or her name to be driven or to stand or to be parked
in violation of any of the provisions of this title. (2000 Code §
15-1301)
15-1302: PENALTIES:
Every person violating any of the provisions of this title containing the
traffic laws of the city shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined or punished as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
15-1302)
CHAPTER 14
COMPRESSION BRAKES
SECTION:
15-1401: Definitions
15-1402: Use Of Engine Compression Brake Prohibited
15-1403: Signage
15-1404: Penalty
15-1401: DEFINITIONS:
ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE: Shall mean any device that utilizes air compression
and/or rapid release of compressed air in the cylinders of diesel engines to
slow or retard vehicle speed. (Ord. 289, 6-13-2013)
15-1402: USE OF ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of a motor vehicle to engage, or allow to
be engaged, operate, or use an engine compression brake, or any similar
mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the deceleration of any vehicle
which results in the emission of excessive and loud noise from the vehicle,
while the vehicle is operated on any public roadway within the corporate limits
of the City of Stroud, Oklahoma. (Ord. 289, 6-13-2013)
15-1403: SIGNAGE:
The City is authorized to place traffic control signs and/or devices in the
appropriate locations as needed which say "Engine Compression Braking
Prohibited within City Limits". (Ord. 289, 6-13-2013)
15-1404: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or
incarceration of a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both. Each
violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 289, 6-13-2013)
CHAPTER 15
UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
SECTION:
15-1501: Definition
15-1502: Requirements
15-1501: DEFINITION:
A utility terrain vehicle (UTV) is defined as a vehicle designed for operation
off of the highway, suspended on four (4) tires, has a steering wheel for
steering control and has one seat to accommodate a driver and at least one
passenger seat sitting side by side. This vehicle shall also have headlamp
lights and brake lights. This definition does not include all terrain vehicles
(ATVs) or motorcycle dirt bikes. (Ord. 331, 8-10-2017)
15-1502: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The operator shall be a licensed driver, who shall be at least sixteen
(16) years of age.
   B.   UTVs may be operated twenty four (24) hours per day on the City streets
of Stroud, Oklahoma.
   C.   All other traffic laws applicable to automobiles or trucks shall be
applicable to UTVs. (Ord. 331, 8-10-2017)
TITLE 16
TRANSPORTATION
CHAPTER 1
RAILROADS
SECTION:
16-101: Railroads To Improve Streets And Alleys
16-102: Sidewalks To Be Constructed By Railroads
16-103: Railroad Trains Not To Block Streets
16-104: Climbing On Moving Trains
16-105: Speed Limit
16-106: Penalty
16-101: RAILROADS TO IMPROVE STREETS AND ALLEYS:
When a railway occupies any portion of a street with its tracks running in a
general direction of such street, either on or adjacent thereto, the railway
company shall improve the space between its tracks and two feet (2') on either
side thereof in the same manner that the remainder of the street is to be, or
has been, improved, or with such other satisfactory material as the council by
motion or resolution may approve. In case any railway company shall occupy an
alley with its track or tracks, the company shall improve, gutter, drain and
grade such alley, and shall surface or pave it with the same material which is
to be, or has been, used on the alley, or with such other satisfactory material
as the council by motion or resolution may approve. When more than one track
crosses a street within a distance of one hundred feet (100'), measuring from
inside rail to inside rail, the railroad company shall grade, gutter, drain and
curb the street area between its tracks, and surface or pave it with the same
material which the city is to use or has used, on the street. Railroad
companies shall keep all such improvements made by them in a good state of
repair at all times. (2000 Code §
16-101)
16-102: SIDEWALKS TO BE CONSTRUCTED BY RAILROADS:
Railway companies shall construct sidewalks crossing their rights of way, using
the same material as is used in adjacent sidewalks insofar as this is
practicable under the circumstances. They shall construct sidewalks on both
sides of the streets when both sides are used by pedestrians. The company shall
keep such sidewalks in a good state of repair at all times. (2000 Code §
16-102)
16-103: RAILROAD TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREETS:
It is unlawful for the directing officer or person in charge of any railroad
train or railroad car to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such
manner as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period
of time longer than five (5) minutes, unless the railroad train or car is
involved in an accident or having engine trouble. (2000 Code §
16-103)
16-104: CLIMBING ON MOVING TRAINS:
It is unlawful for any person to climb upon, hold to or in any manner attach
himself to, any railway train, locomotive or railway car, while such is in
motion, within the city, unless such person is acting in line of duty. (2000
Code §
16-104)
16-105: SPEED LIMIT:
It is unlawful to drive, pull, move or operate a locomotive, train, or any
other rolling stock of a railroad at a speed of more than twenty five (25)
miles per hour within the corporate limits of the city. (2000 Code §
16-105)
16-106: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall perform any unlawful act as defined
by any provision of this chapter, or who shall otherwise violate any provision
of this chapter, shall be guilty of misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
16-106)
CHAPTER 2
TAXIS AND OTHER VEHICLES FOR HIRE
SECTION:
16-201: Taxicab Defined
16-202: Registration
16-203: Application For Registration
16-204: Certificate
16-205: Inspection
16-206: Operation Of Taxi While Intoxicated Prohibited
16-207: Cab Stand
16-208: Public Liability Insurance
16-209: License Fee
16-210: Chauffeur's License And Violation Of Law
16-211: Penalty
16-201: TAXICAB DEFINED:
The term "taxicab", as used in this chapter, shall be construed to mean any and
all motor vehicles used by any person, firm or corporation within the city
limits for hire. (2000 Code §
16-201)
16-202: REGISTRATION:
All taxicabs and other vehicles offered to or used by the public for hire
within the city limits shall be registered with the city clerk. (2000 Code §
16-202)
16-203: APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION:
Any person, firm or corporation using a taxicab or motor vehicle for hire, as
mentioned in this chapter, shall file his application in writing with the city
clerk showing:
   A.   The name of the owner;
   B.   The name of the operator of such vehicle;
   C.   The purpose for which such vehicle is offered to or used by the public;
   D.   The serial number or engine number of each such motor vehicle; and
   E.   A description of such vehicle by make and model. (2000 Code §
16-203)
16-204: CERTIFICATE:
When such application is filed, the city clerk shall register such taxi or
vehicle in a book to be kept by him for such purpose, and shall issue to the
owner thereof a certificate showing such registration and the purpose for which
such taxi or vehicle is offered to the public for hire. Such certificate shall
be at all times carried in the taxi or vehicle and displayed in a place visible
by passengers of such vehicle. Such certificate may be transferred from one
vehicle to another by the owner to whom the certificate was granted upon giving
notice to the city clerk of such transfer, and by registering the serial number
of the motor and description of the vehicle to which the certificate is
transferred. (2000 Code §
16-204)
16-205: INSPECTION:
Each taxicab shall be inspected at least once every six (6) months by a
competent mechanic and his certificate of inspection shall be displayed in
plain sight within the vehicle, showing that brakes, tires, steering apparatus,
horn and lights have been inspected and found to be in good condition. Such
certificate of inspection shall be signed by the mechanic making the inspection
and by the chief of police every six (6) months. The chief of police may
require an additional inspection by a competent mechanic of any such motor
vehicle at any time he deems it necessary. (2000 Code §
16-205)
16-206: OPERATION OF TAXI WHILE INTOXICATED PROHIBITED:
No person shall be permitted to operate a taxicab while under the influence of
intoxicating liquors, and for this purpose, the drinking of any alcoholic
beverage in any amount, shall be construed and considered enough to make such
driver under the influence of intoxicating drink. (2000 Code §
16-206)
16-207: CAB STAND:
No person, firm or corporation shall be permitted to use the parking areas of
the city in which to park the taxicab vehicles, or from which to solicit
business, except in such places as the council shall from time to time
designate. (2000 Code §
16-207)
16-208: PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE:
   A.   All owners and operators of taxicabs and vehicles for hire, as herein
designated, shall purchase, and have in full force and effect at all times
during which such taxi or vehicle is operated within the city, a policy of
public liability insurance covering any person, firm or corporation who might
suffer injury or damage by reason of negligence of the owner or operator of the
motor vehicle or vehicles for hire, arising from the ownership or operation
thereof. The public liability insurance shall be for the following minimum
limits:
      1.   For bodily injury to any one person, one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00);
      2.   For bodily injury to two (2) or more persons arising out of any one
accident, two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00); and
      3.   For property damage, fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
   B.   In addition thereto, all taxis shall be required to carry minimum limit
liability insurance coverage required to fully comply with the financial
responsibility laws of the state. There shall be no maximum limits for the
amount of such insurance carried. A certificate showing the above insurance
coverage shall be deposited with the city clerk for each taxicab operated for
hire within the city. (2000 Code §
16-208)
16-209: LICENSE FEE:
At the time of registration of the taxicab and for the purpose of defraying the
expenses of police supervision, inspection and issuance of certificate herein
provided for, the owner of each taxicab shall pay a yearly license fee as set
by the council for the first vehicle and a fee as set by the council for each
additional vehicle. The payments shall be for the remainder of the fiscal year
of payment of license fees as provided in this chapter and there shall be
license fees for each year thereafter. (2000 Code §
16-209)
16-210: CHAUFFEUR'S LICENSE AND VIOLATION OF LAW:
Any person operating a taxicab shall be required to possess a chauffeur's
license issued by the state department of public safety. If the operator of any
such vehicle shall be convicted in any court within the state for the violation
of any law pertaining to the possession, use or sale of intoxicating liquors
while operating the motor vehicle, his permit to operate the taxicab within the
city or any other vehicles for hire shall immediately and automatically be
revoked. Such person shall not be permitted to operate a vehicle for hire
within the city for a period of one year from that date. Upon two (2) such
convictions, the person shall not be permitted to operate such motor vehicle
within the city again. (2000 Code §
16-210)
16-211: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions or sections
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the city and, upon
conviction or a plea of guilty thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
16-211)
CHAPTER 3
AIRPORT
SECTION:
16-301: Standards And Regulations
16-301: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   There is hereby adopted the Minimum Standards for Stroud Municipal
Airport to be effective April 10, 2014. The provisions of such Minimum
Standards may be amended from time to time by resolution of the City of Stroud,
Oklahoma.
   B.   There is hereby adopted the Rules and Regulations for Stroud Municipal
Airport to be effective April 10, 2014. The provisions of such Rules and
Regulations may be amended from time to time by resolution of the City of
Stroud, Oklahoma.
   C.   The provisions of said Minimum Standards for Stroud Municipal Airport
and the Rules and Regulations for Stroud Municipal Airport are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter.
   D.   No less than three (3) copies of such Minimum Standards and such Rules
and Regulations shall be on file in the Office of the City Clerk and available
for public inspection during normal City Hall business hours. In addition, such
Minimum Standards and Rules and Regulations shall be publicly posted at Stroud
Municipal Airport with copies being available for public inspection and
distribution. (Ord. 295, 4-10-2014)
TITLE 17
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
17-101: Application For Utility Service
17-102: Penalty For Connecting To System Without Permit
17-103: Service Pipes And Lines; How Installed
17-104: Separate Service
17-105: Bills; When Payable, Delinquency
17-105-1: Utility Billing; Notices; Discontinuation Of Services
17-105-2: Allocation And Application Of Utility Payments
17-106: Rights Reserved To Interrupt Service
17-107: City Not Liable
17-108: Damaging Equipment
17-109: To Be Used Only On Premises
17-110: Interference With Mains, Fire Hydrants
17-111: Tampering With Meters Unlawful
17-112: Evidence Of Violation Of Tampering
17-113: Discontinuance Of Service For Tampering
17-114: Unlawful To Climb Upon Or About Water Tower
17-115: Procedure For Governing Board To Fix Future Utility Rates
17-116: Right Of Access To Utility Meters
17-117: Trimming Of Trees And Shrubs
17-118: Ambulance Service Subsidization Fee
17-101: APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICE:
Every person, firm or corporation desiring to have his premises connected with
any of the city utilities, water, electric, sewer or trash collection, shall
make application to the city clerk, shall sign a contract therefor upon a
printed form to be furnished for that purpose, and shall pay to the clerk the
regular fees and deposits for installation of the service. The clerk shall
issue a permit authorizing any regular plumber or electrician to make the
proper connections for water, sewer or electric service. (2000 Code §
17-101)
17-102: PENALTY FOR CONNECTING TO SYSTEM WITHOUT PERMIT:
Any person, whether as owner, plumber, electrician, servant, agent or employee,
who shall make any connection to the water, sewer or electric system without
first having secured a permit as provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
17-102)
17-103: SERVICE PIPES AND LINES; HOW INSTALLED:
All service pipes or lines shall be located in such manner that the supply for
each separate house or premises shall be controlled by a separate stopcock or
switch so placed as to be readily accessible from the outside of the house.
(2000 Code §
17-103)
17-104: SEPARATE SERVICE:
Every separate premises supplied must have its own separate service connection
with the mains or lines, and the premises so supplied shall not be allowed to
supply water, sewer or electricity to any other premises. (2000 Code §
17-104)
17-105: BILLS; WHEN PAYABLE, DELINQUENCY:
   A.   All bills for water, electricity, sewer, garbage, and all other monthly
charges made by the city, shall be payable to the city clerk or such other
person as is designated by the city manager at the office of the city clerk on
the first day of each month. If a bill is not paid on or by the tenth day of
the month following that in which the water, electricity or other services were
used, the bill will be declared to be delinquent. A penalty of seven percent
(7%) of the amount due on any delinquent bill will be charged, and the city
clerk or other designated person is hereby directed to collect such penalty at
the time the bill is paid. The utility bill shall not be considered paid in
full until any penalties are also paid.
   B.   If any bill is not paid by four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on the fifteenth
day of the month, service may be discontinued beginning on the sixteenth day of
the month following the month in which the utility service was used. The
superintendent of the department, or such other person as the city manager may
designate, shall discontinue the city service to the premises after written
notice. The utility service shall not be turned on again until all arrearages
are paid in full, together with the penalty as above specified for shutting off
and turning on the city service. (Ord. 220, 4-12-2007)
   C.   If the superintendent of the department, or other designated person,
goes to the premises to shut off the service and the occupant pays the
superintendent or person prior to his shutting off the service, there shall be
added to the bill the sum as set by the council for the trip made by the
superintendent or person to shut off such services. All bills, penalties and
fees collected as hereinabove specified shall be paid over to the city clerk.
Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the city from instituting suit
for the recovery of any delinquent accounts.
   D.   The city clerk may not accept payment of a water bill without payment
of the sewer service charge, nor shall the clerk accept payment of a sewer bill
without payment of the water bill. The failure to pay any utility bill in
accordance with subsections A and B of this section shall be grounds for
discontinuing any or all of the utility services furnished to the customer
whose bill is delinquent. (2000 Code §
17-105)
17-105-1: UTILITY BILLING; NOTICES; DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICES:
   A.   The city and the Stroud utilities authority are hereby authorized and
directed, with regard to invoices issued concerning utility customers, to take
the following actions:
      1.   In the event the invoiced utility services are not paid by the tenth
day of the month in which the invoice is generated, a "disconnect notice" shall
be mailed to the utility customer;
      2.   In the event the invoiced utility services, including late fees, are
not paid within five (5) days of the mailing of the "disconnect notice", the
utility services shall be disconnected without further notice to the utility
customer;
      3.   In the event the tenth day of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday
or legal holiday, the due date shall be extended to the next business day
thereafter;
      4.   The "disconnect notice" shall be in a form prescribed by the city
and the Stroud utilities authority.
   B.   All late fees and reconnection fees as they currently exist shall
remain in full force and effect.
   C.   Failure of the utility customer to pay the entire amounts due or
incurred shall require the city and the Stroud utilities authority to terminate
services currently in effect as set forth hereinabove.
   D.   This section is made applicable as it pertains to each utility bill and
shall not be based on the number of utility accounts held in any single
customer's name. (Ord. 233, 8-14-2008)
17-105-2: ALLOCATION AND APPLICATION OF UTILITY PAYMENTS:
   A.   Definitions:
UTILITIES: The procurement or sale of electricity, water, sewage or garbage
disposal services sold by the city of Stroud or the Stroud utilities authority,
whether one or more.
UTILITY ACCOUNT: An account opened by an end user or purchaser of electricity,
water, sewage or garbage disposal services sold by the city of Stroud or the
Stroud utilities authority, whether the same shall be one or more services
purchased.
UTILITY CUSTOMER: The end user or purchaser of electricity, water, sewage or
garbage disposal services, regardless of the number of services purchased,
whether one or more.
UTILITY SERVICES: Those products or services sold to the public at large, such
as electricity, water, sewage or garbage disposal services. (Ord. 231, 6-12-
2008)
   B.   Payments Applied To: The city and the Stroud utilities authority are
hereby authorized and directed with regard to all payments made by utility
customers on their outstanding utility bills, to apply any amounts received
from the said utility customers: first to charges incurred for ambulance
subsidization fees and fees associated with certain natural disasters; and,
secondly, the remaining amounts received shall be applied on outstanding
charges for electricity, water, sewage and garbage removal fees incurred.
   C.   Terminate Services: Failure of the utility customer to pay the entire
amounts due or incurred shall require the city and the Stroud utilities
authority to terminate services currently in effect in accordance with the
existing policies and procedures.
   D.   Applicability: This section is made applicable as it pertains to each
utility bill and shall not be based on the number of utility accounts held in
any single customer's name. (Ord. 230, 5-8-2008)
17-106: RIGHTS RESERVED TO INTERRUPT SERVICE:
The city reserves the right to shut off the supply of water or electricity
without notice, for repairs, extensions, nonpayment of rates, or for any other
reason, and no liability shall attach therefrom. (2000 Code §
17-106)
17-107: CITY NOT LIABLE:
The city shall not be liable for any damage caused by the breaking of any pipes
or fixtures, stoppage or interruption of water or electricity, or for any
defect in the system. (2000 Code §
17-107)
17-108: DAMAGING EQUIPMENT:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to destroy or injure any water
pipe, hydrant, faucet, electric light wire, pole, transformer, or other
electrical, sewer or water equipment erected or placed by or belonging to the
city. (2000 Code §
17-108)
17-109: TO BE USED ONLY ON PREMISES:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to take any water or electricity
from any main, pipe or wire, except for use on the premises where the same is
located. (2000 Code §
17-109)
17-110: INTERFERENCE WITH MAINS, FIRE HYDRANTS:
It is unlawful and an offense for any person to disturb, interfere with, open,
operate, close, turn on, turn off, attach any pipe or hose to, or connect
anything with any fire hydrant, or any stopvalve or stopcock belonging to the
city. However, this section shall not apply to any member of the fire
department when in the lawful discharge of his duties as such, or to any person
endeavoring to prevent or put out any fire in any lawful manner. (2000 Code §
17-110)
17-111: TAMPERING WITH METERS UNLAWFUL:
The tampering with water or electrical meters or meter boxes of the city, or
the placing of any bypass connection on or around the meters, or the use of any
other device tending to interfere with the proper registration of same is
unlawful. (2000 Code §
17-111)
17-112: EVIDENCE OF VIOLATION OF TAMPERING:
Evidence of the violation of section
17-111 of this chapter from information by a meter reader or other qualified
employees of the city, duly supported by affidavit or photograph, shall be
deemed prima facie evidence of the intent on the part of the person or persons
responsible for a residential/commercial utility account to violate the
provisions of section
17-111 of this chapter. (2000 Code §
17-112)
17-113: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR TAMPERING:
The superintendent of the department in charge, or his authorized
representative, is hereby directed to discontinue service to any person, firm
or corporation, found guilty of violation of section
17-111 of this chapter. Service shall not be resumed until the estimated cost
of the service that was used and diverted shall have been paid in full. (2000
Code §
17-113)
17-114: UNLAWFUL TO CLIMB UPON OR ABOUT WATER TOWER:
It is unlawful for any person to climb upon or about any city water tower or
standpipe, except in line of duty. (2000 Code §
17-114)
17-115: PROCEDURE FOR GOVERNING BOARD TO FIX FUTURE UTILITY RATES:
The mayor and city council, acting either as the governing board of the city or
as trustees of the Stroud utilities authority, may establish future rates for
utility services by ordinance, motion or resolution, as the case may be. (2000
Code §
17-115)
17-116: RIGHT OF ACCESS TO UTILITY METERS:
The city and the Stroud utilities authority, and any of their employees or
representatives, shall have the right to enter on any premises and grounds in
order to access any utility meters or equipment. Any person who wilfully
obstructs such access to meters or equipment shall be guilty of an offense.
(2000 Code §
17-116)
17-117: TRIMMING OF TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   In an effort to maintain utility easements and rights of way, the city
will try to maintain a minimum of twenty feet (20') of clearance from any
electrical wire or guywire from all trees, shrubs, bushes, fencing and other
structures in the city utility easements and rights of way that are part of the
municipal electric system. The city has the right to trim or remove any tree
that is in, or growing into, the city utility easement or right of way.
   B.   The trimming or removal of any tree in the city utility easement or
right of way shall be the decision of the electric supervisor. Notification
will be given to the property resident and/or owner and request made that
written permission be given for said tree trimming or removal. Refusal to sign
said resident and/or owner permission form will be referred to the city
manager; however, the ultimate decision making authority, regardless of
consent, lies with the city manager. In the event of an emergency, no
notification will be given to trim a tree or shrub that has in some way caused
or is causing an electrical outage.
   C.   Trees or shrubs that are grown in the city utility easements or rights
of way will be removed in the event of a repair or improvements to city water
and sewer lines. Notification will be given to the property owner for the need
to remove said plantings. Fences that are built onto the city utility easement
or right of way can and will be taken down in the event of a repair or
improvement to the city water or sewer lines. The repair or replacement of said
fence will be the responsibility of the property owner. (Ord. 208, 3-24-2006)
17-118: AMBULANCE SERVICE SUBSIDIZATION FEE:
   A.   The city and the Stroud utilities authority are hereby authorized and
directed to charge a fee in such amount as established by resolution of the
city council, per utility bill per month issued by the Stroud utilities
authority for the subsidization of any ambulance service contracted for by the
city and/or the Stroud utilities authority. This expense shall only be
applicable to each address which has utility service, and should multiple
utility services be connected at the same address, then in that event, the
utility customer shall receive one bill per address for ambulance services.
   B.   The provisions set forth in subsection A of this section shall be
effective with the incurrence of utility services effective May 1, 2008, and
shall be effective until repealed.
   C.   This section is made applicable as it pertains to each utility bill and
shall not be based on the number of utility accounts held in any single
customer's name. (Ord. 228, 4-29-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
17-201: Application To Make Connection To Water Mains; Tap Charge
17-202: Connections To Be Made In Accordance With Ordinance And Law
17-203: Water Deposit Required
17-204: Controlling The Quantity Of Fluoride In The Public Water Supply
17-205: Water Rates
17-206: Water Shortages; Declaration Of Emergency
17-207: Restriction On Water Use In Emergency
17-208: Proclamation And Notice Of Emergency
17-209: Grievances With Water Restrictions
17-210: Penalties
17-201: APPLICATION TO MAKE CONNECTION TO WATER MAINS; TAP CHARGE:
Any person desiring to make a connection to a water main of the city is
required to file a written application with the city clerk to make the
connection. A charge shall be levied for each new tap on the water mains of the
city, the amount to be set by resolution or motion of the council. Upon receipt
of the connection or tap charge, the city clerk is directed to issue such
permit. (2000 Code §
17-201)
17-202: CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ORDINANCE AND LAW:
Any person, firm or corporation who connects to the water mains of the city in
violation of this chapter or other ordinances of the city or the laws of the
state will be denied further water service until such ordinances and laws are
complied with. (2000 Code §
17-202)
17-203: WATER DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
Any person who desires to use water supplied by the city or Stroud utilities
authority shall put up with the city clerk as a meter deposit the amount which
is required by resolution or motion of the council. The council may establish
classifications of customers, such as residences, mobile homes and various
types of businesses for different deposit requirements. (2000 Code §
17-203)
17-204: CONTROLLING THE QUANTITY OF FLUORIDE IN THE PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY:
In order to protect the health and welfare of the citizens of the city, from
and after May 11, 1981, the quantity of fluoride in the public water supply
shall be controlled in such manner that the amount present in the water served
to the public shall be in conformity with the policy, and subsequent changes
thereto, established by the Oklahoma state board of health. (2000 Code §
17-204)
17-205: WATER RATES:
   A.   Residential And Commercial Customers: The water rate schedule for
residential and commercial customers shall be as set by the council by motion
or resolution. (2000 Code §
17-205; amd. Ord. 263, 8-11-2011)
   B.   Commercial Agriculture Users:
      1.   The term "commercial agriculture user" shall mean any person or
entity engaged in any type of agriculture pursuit for profit, although hobby
farms would also be included within this definition.
      2.   To further qualify as a "commercial agriculture user" for water rate
purposes as defined at subsection B1 of this section the user would be required
to meet the following criteria:
         a.   The physical location of the site shall be within the city limits
of Stroud, Oklahoma; and
         b.   The physical location of the site used for agriculture pursuits
must be of a size of no less than four (4) acres; and
         c.   The minimum annual (calculated on a continuous uninterrupted 12
month period of time) usage shall be not less than four million (4,000,000)
gallons annually.
      3.   It shall be the duty of the commercial agriculture user to provide
proof of the size of the area where the water is used in order to be qualified
for the commercial agriculture user rate.
      4.   The rate to be charged to the commercial agriculture user shall be
one dollar ninety cents ($1.90) per one thousand (1,000) gallons used and a
meter fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00) per month, charged each and every
month.
      5.   In the event the commercial agriculture user did not use four
million (4,000,000) gallons of water per annum for two (2) consecutive twelve
(12) month time periods, the utility customer rate would automatically revert
to the commercial rate then in effect.
      6.   In the event the agriculture use of water increased to four million
(4,000,000) gallons per annum the utility user would then again be eligible for
the commercial agriculture rate.
      7.   All other current rates for setting meters and the commercial rate
user base rate shall also apply.
      8.   The commercial agriculture rate shall apply only to treated water.
(Ord. 264, 11-10-2011, eff. 11-10-2011)
17-206: WATER SHORTAGES; DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   Whenever an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water due to
inadequate supply, limited treatment or distribution capacity or failure of
equipment or material, the city manager, or his designee, is hereby authorized
to restrict or prohibit the use of water from the city water system.
   B.   An emergency exists whenever the city manager, or his designee,
reasonably determines that the city water system is unable or will within sixty
(60) days become unable to supply the full commercial and domestic needs of the
users thereof, including adequate fire protection. (2000 Code §
17-206)
17-207: RESTRICTION ON WATER USE IN EMERGENCY:
   A.   Upon the determination that such an emergency exists, the city manager,
or his designee, shall issue a proclamation declaring the emergency and setting
out with particularity an order restricting use of water from the city system.
The order may:
      1.   Restrict water usage during certain periods of the day or week or
according to any orderly and nondiscriminatory scheme; and
      2.   Prohibit usages not essential to public health and safety. The order
may be revised from time to time as the city manager, or his designee, deems
necessary.
   B.   A duly proclaimed emergency shall continue and the terms of the
proclamation shall be in force for thirty (30) days or until such time as the
city manager or his designee shall cause to be published a proclamation that
the emergency has ended, whichever is shorter, unless the board, by resolution
approved by a majority of all its members, votes to terminate the emergency and
proclamation upon a different date. (2000 Code §
17-207)
17-208: PROCLAMATION AND NOTICE OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   The proclamation required by section
17-207 of this chapter shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city and the community channel on cable television or, if there is no
such newspaper in which the proclamation may be published within twenty four
(24) hours after the emergency arises, publication shall be by posting a copy
of the proclamation in ten (10) prominent places in the city. The emergency
shall be in full force and effect upon publication. Substantial compliance with
this section is sufficient to effect the emergency.
   B.   Whenever a sudden or unexpected event so reduces the availability of
water or water pressure as to create an immediate threat to public health or
safety, the notice of the proclamation may be given by any reasonable means,
including electronic means. The emergency shall be in full force and effect
upon such notice. However, if any means other than that required in subsection
A of this section is used, the proclamation shall be republished in accordance
with subsection A of this section within twenty four (24) hours of the first
notice. (2000 Code §
17-208)
17-209: GRIEVANCES WITH WATER RESTRICTIONS:
Any person feeling aggrieved by a proclamation of the city manager, or his
designee, shall have the right to present the matter to the next regular or
special meeting of the city council or to any emergency session called to
discuss the water emergency. The board may exempt such aggrieved person, wholly
or in part, from compliance with the proclamation order upon a showing that
compliance creates an immediate threat to the person's health or safety. The
ruling of the council by a majority vote of all its members shall be final and
binding as to the continuance of any terms of the proclamation. Until and
unless the action of the city manager, or his designee, is modified or revoked
by action of the council, all water users shall be bound by the proclamation.
(2000 Code §
17-209)
17-210: PENALTIES:
Any person who in any manner directly or indirectly violates or permits others
under his supervision, custody or control to violate any term of a duly
published proclamation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any violation of the
provisions of the proclamation of the city manager, or his designee, or action
of the board, shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment as provided in
section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
17-210)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRIC SERVICE
SECTION:
17-301: Electric Deposit Required
17-302: Provision Of Service; Rules For Initiating Service
17-303: Additional Supply To Points Beyond Meter
17-304: Electric Rates
17-305: Adjustments
17-306: Use Of Backup Generators
17-301: ELECTRIC DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
Any person who desires to use electricity supplied by the City shall put up
with the City Clerk as a meter deposit the amount which is required by
resolution or motion of the Council. The Council may establish classifications
of customers, such as residences, mobile homes and various types of businesses
for different deposit requirements. (2000 Code §
17-301)
17-302: PROVISION OF SERVICE; RULES FOR INITIATING SERVICE:
When the City is requested to provide electric power at an installation in the
City and the City is serving the area where such installation is to be made,
the following rules shall apply with regard to such request and installation:
   A.   For AC 60 HZ, single-phase, 120/240 volt service, no charge will be
made;
   B.   For the following electrical installations:
      1.   3-phase electrical service;
      2.   208 wye/120 voltage;
      3.   277/480 voltage;
      4.   120 y voltage; or
      5.   Any other unusual type of electrical requirements or voltage which
require special lines or equipment,
the City Manager, or person designated by the City Manager, shall prepare an
estimate of the cost of equipment and labor to make such installation, and the
entity requesting such service shall be required to do one of the following, or
a combination of the same:
         a.   Pay to the City an installation charge, not to exceed the
estimated cost for such installation; and
         b.   Enter into a contract with such customer for such period of time
so as to permit the City to be compensated for the costs of such installation
and to make charges to compensate the City for the cost of such installation if
the customer is disconnected before the end of such contract period. (2000 Code
§
17-302)
17-303: ADDITIONAL SUPPLY TO POINTS BEYOND METER:
When an electrical customer requests a separate supply or other voltages of
electrical current at other points beyond the initial delivery and metering
point, the customer will be charged the cost of installing the additional
equipment, and separate meters shall be installed at such additional points of
delivery and the electrical current separately metered and billed at each point
of delivery. (2000 Code §
17-303)
17-304: ELECTRIC RATES:
All electric current billed by the City shall be on the meter rates as set by
the Council by motion or resolution. (2000 Code §
17-304)
17-305: ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   If the results of any meter test, whether requested by the customer or
performed at the option of the City, show that a meter registers inaccurately
by more than two percent (2%) fast or slow, the City will correct the
customer's utility bills, using the percent of error as the factor for
calculating adjustments:
      1.   Fast Meters: The City shall credit to the customer's account the
amount overcharged during previous billing periods, not to exceed six (6)
months.
      2.   Slow Meters: The City may charge for the electricity or water
consumed, but not included in bills previously rendered, for a period not to
exceed six (6) months.
      3.   Clerical, Technical Errors: If a meter or account record is found to
have an incorrect register, connection, multiplier, or constant, or if a meter
is found not to register or to have been registering intermittently for any
period, or if a clerical error of any nature has been made on the account, the
error shall be corrected and the account adjusted. Billable usage may be
estimated based on such information as is available from the City records and
as is deemed reasonable in comparison to previous usage at the same account or
similar usages at comparable accounts.
   B.   When the error is adverse to the customer, a credit adjustment will be
made to the account for the amount charged due to incorrect metering or due to
errors in billing calculations for the period of time that the bills were in
error, but not to exceed six (6) months. When the error is adverse to the City,
the City may charge the customer not to exceed six (6) months. (Ord. 200, 2-10-
2005)
17-306: USE OF BACKUP GENERATORS:
   A.   The City of Stroud, Oklahoma, does hereby enact this section regulating
the use of portable and stationary electric generators, prohibiting the use of
portable and stationary electric generators after disconnection of electrical
utilities for non-payment of utility services and establishing penalties for
violation of this section.
   B.   The connection of portable and stationary electrical generation
devices, if not properly installed, may lead to the death or injury of persons
servicing the units and can further lead to serious damage of the electrical
delivery device if not properly installed. As such, it is necessary to
establish rules, regulations and penalties for unauthorized or improper
installation of these devices.
   C.   Generators for temporary back-up service shall not be considered a
primary power source if City electrical services are operating and available
and shall be permitted as long as the generator cannot be interconnected or
linked in any manner to the City's permanent service. A permit and inspection
is required to use any generator for back-up electrical service for any
structure using the City electrical system.
   D.   Portable generating sources may only be connected through an approved
disconnect switch. This switch must positively disconnect the utility feed
before connecting the generator to the customer load.
   E.   Portable or stationary generators shall not be used for the replacement
of electrical service when a service has been disconnected for non-payment of
utility services.
   F.   1. Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, is punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this Code.
      2.   In addition to proceedings under subsection F1 of this section, the
City is entitled to pursue authority to pursue all other criminal and civil
remedies to which it is entitled under authority of Oklahoma Statutes or other
ordinances against a person continuing the prohibited acts.
      3.   Each day that this section is violated shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be treated as such. (Ord. 290, 11-14-2013)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER SERVICE
SECTION:
17-401: Conformance To Rules And Regulations
17-402: Inspection
17-403: Persons To Comply With Rules And Regulations
17-404: Charge To Be Made For Permit
17-405: Compliance With Ordinances And Laws
17-406: Sewer Service User Charges
17-407: Nonresident Users
17-408: Water Deposits For Sewer
17-409: Prohibited Discharges
17-410: Permits Required
17-411: New Sewers And Connections
17-412: Discharges
17-413: Interceptors Required
17-414: Penalty
17-401: CONFORMANCE TO RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All connections to the sewers of the City shall conform to the rules and
regulations prescribed by the City and the (IPC) International Plumbing Code
2009. (Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
17-402: INSPECTION:
It is the duty of the plumbing inspector, or other person to be designated by
the City Manager, to inspect the sewer connection after it is completed by the
applicant. If the person doing the inspecting under authority of the City
disapproves the connection and finds that it does not conform to the rules and
regulations of the City, he shall notify the applicant of his disapproval, and
the applicant shall immediately comply with the objections of the inspector.
(Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
17-403: PERSONS TO COMPLY WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS:
No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter make any connection on any
public sewer or any connection on any private sewer which in turn is connected
with a public sewer, without complying with the rules and regulations herein
set out. No person, firm or corporation shall connect more than one building to
a single lateral leading to the public sewer system of the City. (Ord. 280, 2-
14-2013)
17-404: CHARGE TO BE MADE FOR PERMIT:
A charge prescribed by section
17-403 of this chapter for each connection made on the sanitary sewer system of
the City, regardless of whether the connection is made on what has heretofore
been designated as a public sewer or a private sewer, is hereby levied for the
right of the person, firm or corporation to make the connection to the sanitary
sewer system of the City. It is hereby declared to be the duty of the City
Clerk to make this collection for issuing a permit to the applicant. Fees for
each application shall be set from time to time by the Stroud City Council.
(Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
17-405: COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES AND LAWS:
Any person who connects to the sewers of the City in violation of this chapter
or any other ordinance of the City or of the laws of the State will be denied
further sewer service until such ordinances and laws are complied with. It
shall be the duty of the plumbing inspector, or other person designated by the
City Manager, to disconnect any sewer and water which have not been connected
in compliance with the ordinances and laws. (Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
17-406: SEWER SERVICE USER CHARGES:
   A.   Charges: For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance of the
sanitary sewerage system of the City and for other purposes, there is hereby
fixed and established charges for the use of the sanitary sewerage system to be
levied against each respective user thereof with the City in such amounts and
according to such classifications of users as the Council by resolution or
motion may determine. A copy of the current charges in effect shall be kept on
file in the City Clerk's Office.
   B.   Calculation Of Sewer Charges: Rates for sewer charges shall be set from
time to time by the City Council as set in subsection A of this section.
There shall be separate procedures for commercial and residential use charges.
      1.   Commercial accounts, use charges, shall be based on their usage of
water on a month to month basis.
      2.   Residential accounts, shall be charged as follows: The monthly user
charge will be based upon the average monthly water usage during the months of
November, December, January, February and March and each residential
contributor shall pay a monthly user fee based upon the average number of
gallons of water used each month for said five (5) month period. (Ord. 309, 9-
10-2015)
17-407: NONRESIDENT USERS:
All users of the City sanitary sewerage system having connections outside the
corporate limits of the City shall be charged one and one-half (11/2) times the
scheduled rates currently in effect, as set by the Council. The City does not
obligate itself to furnish sanitary sewer service to any persons whomsoever,
but will furnish such service as is reasonable within its discretion and
financial ability to do. (Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
17-408: WATER DEPOSITS FOR SEWER:
All deposits made by users of City water, as required by the City ordinances to
guarantee payment of water bills, may be also applied to pay delinquent sewer
service charges of the user who made the deposit. (Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
17-409: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      1.   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      2.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      3.   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   B.   All discharges shall be prohibited except those that meet the criteria
for "domestic wastewater". (BOD) biochemical oxygen demand concentration shall
not exceed two hundred ten milligrams per liter (210 mg/L) (maximum limit for
average domestic wastewater). (SS) suspended solids shall not exceed two
hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/L) (maximum limit for average domestic
wastewater).
   C.   All industrial discharges are prohibited. At the present time, there
are no industrial users in the City. If an industrial user should desire to
locate in the City and make use of the sewerage system, an industrial user
system will be initiated in accordance with EPA and State regulations at that
time to compensate for the use of the system.
   D.   Any new connections from inflow sources into the sanitary sewer
portions of the sewer system shall be prohibited. (Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
17-410: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Contributing Industries And Pretreatment Requirements:
      1.   The following pollutants shall not be introduced into a publicly
owned treatment works (POTW) facility, defined in 40 CFR 403.3(o) as any
devices and systems used in storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of
municipal sewage and industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to a POTW
treatment plant. The term also means the municipality as defined in section 502
(4) of the Act, which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and from
such treatment works.
         a.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW
facility, including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than sixty degrees Celsius (60°C) (140°F) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
         b.   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0, unless the works are
specifically designed to accommodate such discharges;
         c.   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause
obstruction to the flow in the POTW, resulting in interference;
         d.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (e.g., BOD),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference with the POTW;
         e.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
POTW resulting in interference but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds forty degrees Celsius (40°C)
(104°F) unless the approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves
alternate temperature limits;
         f.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
         g.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems; and
         h.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW.
      2.   The permittee shall require any indirect discharger to the treatment
works to comply with the reporting requirements of sections 204(b), 307, and
308 of the Act, including any requirements established under 40 CFR part 403.
      3.   The permittee shall provide adequate notice of the following:
         a.   Any new introduction of pollutants into the treatment works from
an indirect discharger which would be subject to sections 301 and 306 of the
Act and/or sections 40 CFR 405 - 499 if it were directly discharging those
pollutants;
         b.   Any substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants
being introduced into the treatment works by a source introducing pollutants
into the treatment works at the time of issuance of the permit; and
         c.   Any notice shall include information on: 1) the quality and
quantity of effluent to be introduced into the treatment works and 2) any
anticipated impact of the change on the quality or quantity of effluent to be
discharged from the POTW. (Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
17-411: NEW SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the City Building Code and other applicable
rules and regulations of the City.
   B.   All new sanitary sewage works shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the Oklahoma State Department of Health
regulations.
   C.   When a public sewer becomes available within two hundred feet (200'),
the building sewer shall be connected to the sewer within sixty (60) days.
(Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
17-412: DISCHARGES:
No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   A.   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfide.
   B.   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow in
a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers,
ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood,
plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
   C.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include any pollutant identified by the
Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ).
   D.   Any waste water having a pH less than 5.0 or greater than 9.0 or waste
water having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment, and/or personnel of the waste water treatment system.
   E.   Any waste water having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the (WWTP) waste water treatment plant resulting in interference,
but in no case waste water with a temperature at the introduction into the WWTP
which exceeds forty degrees Celsius (40°C) or one hundred four degrees
Fahrenheit (104°F).
   F.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the City and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the City and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge
permit by the City. (Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
17-413: INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED:
   A.   For the purposes of this section the word "interceptor" shall mean a
device designed and installed so as to separate and retain deleterious,
hazardous or undesirable matter from normal waste and permit normal sewage or
liquid waste to discharge into the sewer system by gravity.
   B.   In any building, establishment, house, garage, place where vehicles are
washed or repaired, restaurants, service stations, car wash, grocery store,
school, other facilities that prepare any type of food products, nursing home,
assisted living centers, hospitals and any other place where sand, dirt,
gravel, oil, gasoline, grease or other grainy, deleterious or insoluble matter
is washed or discharged into the sanitary sewer system of the City, the drain
into which such materials are discharged shall be equipped with a sand trap or
interceptor which shall be so designed and constructed as to be readily
accessible for cleaning and inspection and that part of the discharge line
which is within the trap or interceptor leading from such interceptor to the
sewer, shall at all times be equipped with a water seal or vertically downward
turned elbow of ninety degrees (90°) and not less than ten inches (10") in
length below the bottom of the outlet of such interceptor.
   C.   The Waste Water Superintendent shall perform bi-annual inspections or
whenever in the judgment of the Waste Water Superintendent of the City, there
is reason to believe that this section is being violated, the Waste Water
Superintendent or any of the employees of the Waste Water Department on the
orders of the Superintendent, shall have the right and duty at all reasonable
times during daylight hours to enter such place for the purpose of inspecting
the same to determine whether in fact this section is being violated. The
refusal to admit the Waste Water Department employee(s) into any such place for
the purpose above mentioned by any owner, tenant, manager or occupier of any
such place shall be considered a violation of this section. (Ord. 280, 2-14-
2013)
17-414: PENALTY:
   A.   A person who continues prohibited discharges is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, is punishable as provided in section
1-108 of this Code.
   B.   In addition to proceeding under authority of subsection A of this
section, the City is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies
to which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against
a person continuing prohibited discharges.
   C.   The City reserves the right to terminate service to any customer that
fails to pay bills when due or discharges any prohibited wastes into the sewer
system. (Ord. 280, 2-14-2013)
CHAPTER 5
REFUSE, GARBAGE COLLECTION
SECTION:
17-501: Definitions
17-502: System Of Storing Garbage And Trash
17-503: Additional Regulations On Storing And Picking Up Waste
17-504: Containers And Dumpsters
17-505: Collection Schedule; Fees
17-506: Garbage Billings With Electric Bills
17-507: Dumpsters In Volume Commercial Establishments
17-508: Scattering Garbage Or Trash
17-509: Nuisance
17-509-1: City Courtesy Dumpsters
17-510: Penalty
17-501: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BULKY WASTE: Waste material generated by residences that include large,
cumbersome, or heavy items that are not normally put into bags or boxes for
disposal, including, but not limited to, furniture, appliances, carpet,
mattresses, box springs, bicycles and large quantities of unbundled brush.
COMMERCIAL CONTAINER: A container or dumpster or a size agreed upon between the
business, commercial or industrial customer and the city, such dumpster to be
furnished by the city or its contractor.
COMMERCIAL WASTE: Waste material generated by commercial establishments, but
does not include bulky waste or industrial waste generated by an industry and
hazardous material as is listed or characterized as such by the United States
EPA or the appropriate state authority, including, but not limited to, the
department of environmental quality.
RESIDENTIAL CONTAINER: A ninety five (95) gallon cart to be furnished by the
city or its contractor and, for excess residential waste, plastic garbage bags
and other receptacles which may be approved by the sanitation officer or the
city manager.
RESIDENTIAL WASTE: Waste material that is typically generated by a residence in
normal quantities that is reasonably containerized and shall include garbage,
rubbish, ashes, grass clippings and tree limbs tied and bundled in lengths not
to exceed four feet (4'). (2000 Code §
17-501)
17-502: SYSTEM OF STORING GARBAGE AND TRASH:
It shall be the duty of the occupant of each dwelling where refuse or garbage
is being picked up at the time of the passage of this chapter, or occupant of
each business or industrial establishment, to comply with the provisions of
this chapter pertaining to the storage of refuse and garbage:
   A.   All residential waste from dwellings shall be stored in such container
as hereinabove referred to. Refuse and garbage on the scheduled day of pick up
shall be located at a single place on each premises, which place shall be
easily accessible to the street or alley from which collections are made.
Refuse or garbage in excess of that which will fit into such container may be
placed in plastic garbage bags and placed alongside such cart on the day for
scheduled pick up of garbage at such dwelling. The city or its contractor
reserves the right to refuse to collect garbage and trash in containers which
are not easily accessible;
   B.   "Bulky waste", as defined in section
17-501 of this chapter, shall be brought by occupant to a large dumpster or
dumpsters at city hall or property adjacent thereto, and deposited therein. Any
such person making any deposit in the large dumpster shall pay the sum of three
dollars ($3.00), or as otherwise set by the council by motion or resolution,
for each pickup load, or part thereof, or the equivalent thereof, placed in the
large dumpster. Such sum shall be paid to the city clerk's office during office
hours and to the police dispatcher during hours when the city clerk's office is
closed;
   C.   For business, commercial or industrial establishments, all garbage for
business, commercial or industrial establishments shall be served by a city or
contractor owned ninety five (95) gallon cart or dumpster type receptacle.
Trash dumpsters shall be located outside of the building, shall be ratproof and
shall have waterproof lids. Business, commercial or industrial dumpsters shall
be single or multiple units of sufficient capacity to fully contain all trash
accumulated between collection periods with the lids or covers closed.
Business, commercial and industrial trash containers located outside of
buildings shall not be located directly under downspouts or eaves where they
will be deluged with water during storms. No business, commercial or industrial
trash containers located in any alley shall block traffic in the alley. All
commercial waste shall be stored inside of such container or dumpster.
Commercial waste placed therein shall be baled or placed in baskets, boxes or
hampers which can be dumped without the necessity of collectors gathering up
loose trash or handled in such manner as may be approved by the sanitary
officer, or, if none, appointed by the city manager. Heavy paper or cardboard
boxes may be nested or stacked within a trash container;
   D.   No person shall damage, destroy or remove from the premises of a
dwelling or the premises of a business, commercial or industrial establishment
any city owned or contractor owned garbage container or dumpster. If any such
container (cart) or dumpster is stolen, lost or needs to be replaced for any
reason, other than negligence of the city or its contractor, such shall be done
by the occupant of the residence or the owners or lessees of any such business,
commercial or industrial establishment;
   E.   No person shall deposit any refuse or waste in any container or
dumpster which serves a residence or business owned or occupied by another as a
residence, or into a dumpster that serves a business establishment owned or
leased by another;
   F.   In addition to the regulations set forth above, in order to protect the
public health, storage of garbage shall be in such manner as is approved by the
sanitary officer or if none appointed, the city manager. (2000 Code §
17-502)
17-503: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS ON STORING AND PICKING UP WASTE:
It shall be the duty of the occupant or occupants of each dwelling, and of the
occupant or occupants of each business, commercial or industrial establishment,
to comply with the provisions of the chapter pertaining to the storage of
garbage or waste:
   A.   The placement or parking of vehicles in alleys where trash containers
are located or in the city right of way so as to deny access to the bin is
expressly prohibited. The city or its contractor reserves the right to refuse
to collect garbage and waste in containers or dumpsters which are not easily
accessible by reason of parked cars or other such obstructions. The placement
of any items on the ground beside the container or dumpster that would normally
be placed in the container thereby causing litter is expressly prohibited,
except on the scheduled day of pick up. Refuse that is in excess of what will
fit in the container may be placed in plastic garbage bags alongside the
container for pick up. The occupant will take any action necessary to see that
such garbage bag is not broken and the garbage scattered;
   B.   For business, commercial or industrial establishments, all garbage and
waste from business, commercial or industrial establishments shall be placed in
the container or dumpsters provided. Cardboard boxes which are placed in the
dumpsters may be nested or broken down. The same restrictions and prohibitions
that apply to dwellings in subsection A of this section shall apply to
business, commercial and industrial establishments covered by this section;
   C.   No person shall damage, destroy or remove from the premises of a
dwelling or the premises of a business, commercial or industrial establishment
any container or dumpster. The placement of any items on or around the
container or dumpster that would thereby cause damage to private property or to
a garbage truck is expressly prohibited. Any malicious mischief, such as moving
or defacing, setting fire to container or dumpster contents, or causing the
contents of the container or dumpster to burn by the placement of hot ashes in
the container or dumpster, is expressly prohibited;
   D.   In addition to the regulations set forth above, in order to protect the
public health, storage of garbage shall be in such manner as is approved by the
sanitary officer, and if none appointed, then the city manager. (2000 Code §
17-503)
17-504: CONTAINERS AND DUMPSTERS:
All containers and dumpsters shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition at
all times and shall be kept free of rodents, pests and stinging insects.
Whenever a container or dumpster has deteriorated or has been damaged and is no
longer sanitary, rodentproof or capable of retaining its load, it shall be
repaired or replaced by the occupant or occupants. When an occupant fails to
repair or replace unsatisfactory containers or dumpsters after notice of this
condition has been given by the city or its contractor, further collections
will be discontinued until proper containers or dumpsters have been provided.
The city or its contractor shall not be responsible for cleaning of containers
and dumpsters where the character of the contents is such that ordinary efforts
of dumping and shaking will not completely free the contents from the container
or dumpster. It shall be the responsibility of the occupant or occupants of the
premises to clean all containers and dumpsters of all residual deposits which
cannot be dislodged by the ordinary effort of dumping and shaking. (2000 Code §
17-504)
17-505: COLLECTION SCHEDULE; FEES:
   A.   It is declared to be the policy of the city to collect garbage and
refuse from each dwelling, business, commercial or industrial establishment,
cafe, eating house, grocery or market in accordance with a schedule adopted by
the city council.
   B.   The occupants of each premises shall pay the fees monthly to the city
for the removal of such refuse. Such fees shall be set by resolution or motion
of the council, so long as it has a lease on the sanitation system, for such
classes of users as the council or the Stroud utilities authority may set.
(2000 Code §
17-505)
17-506: GARBAGE BILLINGS WITH ELECTRIC BILLS:
If electric and water accounts for a premises are billed to separate persons,
the garbage fee will be to the individual maintaining the electric accounts.
(2000 Code §
17-506)
17-507: DUMPSTERS IN VOLUME COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
Dumpster containers shall be used for all volume commercial establishments.
(2000 Code §
17-507)
17-508: SCATTERING GARBAGE OR TRASH:
No person shall molest garbage or trash cans or containers and no person, other
than duly authorized employees of the city, shall open such cans or containers
without the express permission of the owner. (2000 Code §
17-508)
17-509: NUISANCE:
The storage of garbage and trash in cans and containers prescribed by this
chapter and the regular collecting thereof by the sanitation department, upon
payment of fees and charges provided in this chapter, is hereby declared to be
essential to the efficient operation of the department and to prevention of
disease and protection of public health. Scattering of garbage and trash,
storage of garbage or trash except in cans and containers prescribed by this
chapter, or the accumulation of garbage or trash by reason of nonpayment of
fees or charges for its removal, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
a violation of this chapter. Under no circumstances shall garbage or trash be
dumped or stored on any street or any alley or on any lot, without being placed
in proper cans or containers as prescribed herein. Under no circumstances shall
industrial wastes or manure be dumped or stored on any street or in any alley.
(2000 Code §
17-509)
17-509-1: CITY COURTESY DUMPSTERS:
   A.   The city courtesy dumpsters will not longer be located north of city
hall at 221 West 2nd Street (formerly T.H. Rogers Lumber Company yard). The new
location shall be a fenced area located near the city animal control shelter,
west of the water treatment plant located at 1201 East 7th Street (between
Allied Road and Route 66).
   B.   The courtesy dumpsters will be monitored by an attendant to make sure
only approved items are dumped. The following shall not be allowed in the
dumpsters:
      1.   Tires;
      2.   Batteries;
      3.   Hazardous chemicals;
      4.   Construction materials;
      5.   Brush, branches;
      6.   Paint (unless filled with kitty litter to absorb liquid);
      7.   Metal;
      8.   Furniture;
      9.   White goods (appliances, refrigerators, stoves, water heaters, air
conditioning units and like durable items).
   C.   The courtesy dumpster business hours are:
      1.   Sunday and Monday, closed;
      2.   Tuesday through Friday, eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon, and one o'clock (1:00) P.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M.;
      3.   Saturday, eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) noon.
   D.   The police department will no longer provide a key for accessing the
dumpster after business hours. Persons dumping after hours are subject to a
fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for illegal dumping.
   E.   The courtesy dumping fees shall be as follows: (Ord. 243, 8-13-2009,
eff. retroactive to 7-1-2009)
      1.   Current City Utility Customers: A current utility bill from the city
of Stroud and a photo ID must be presented to the attendant prior to dumping.
Stroud utility customers may dump one pickup load per month for no charge and
an additional charge as set by resolution of the city council for each
additional pickup load. The fee must be paid at city hall prior to dumping and
a receipt must be shown.
      2.   Nonutility Customers: Customers who do not have a utility account
with the city shall be required to pay and present a receipt from city hall
prior to dumping. A charge as set by resolution of the city council per pickup
load will apply. (Ord. 243, 8-13-2009, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2009; amd. 2011
Code)
      3.   Other: Current city utility customers who present a utility bill
with a photo ID may dump one pickup load per month of household trash or debris
at the city of Prague landfill at no cost. Refuse which may be dumped at the
city of Prague landfill may not contain commercial or construction debris.
(Ord. 243, 8-13-2009, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2009)
17-510: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of any
section or part of a section of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense
against the city and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as provided in
section
1-108 of this code. (2000 Code §
17-510)
CHAPTER 6
UTILITY USE PERMITS
SECTION:
17-601: Title
17-602: Definitions
17-603: Utility Use Permit Required
17-604: Application For Permit
17-605: Issuance Of Permit
17-606: Liability And Indemnification
17-607: Liability Insurance And Bonds
17-608: Obligations Of Permittee
17-609: Grant Of Authority
17-610: Conditions For Use Of Streets And Alleys
17-611: Erection, Removal And Joint Use Of Poles
17-612: Safety Requirements
17-613: Complaints
17-614: Preferential Or Discriminatory Practices Prohibited
17-615: System Construction And Extension
17-616: Maps, Plats And Reports
17-617: Term Of Permit; Renewals
17-618: Rates
17-619: Permit Fees
17-620: Transfers
17-621: Procedure; Public Hearing
17-622: Procedure On Termination Of Permit
17-623: Revocation Of Permit
17-624: Amendments
17-625: Acceptance
17-626: Interpretation
17-601: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the UTILITY PERMIT CHAPTER. (2000 Code §
17-601)
17-602: DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this chapter, the definitions of capitalized terms and
the construction of words and phrases shall be in conformity with the code and
ordinances of the city and with the constitution, statutes and laws of the
state. In addition, the following definitions and rules of construction shall
be observed, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the legislative
body or the context clearly requires otherwise:
CUSTOMER OR CUSTOMERS: Any person or entity receiving utility service from and
as a customer of the permittee.
GROSS REVENUES: Any and all compensation and other considerations received
directly by a permittee from customers in payment for regularly furnished
utility service, including initial lump sum payments, if any, and connection
charges, exclusive of any taxes on services furnished by the permittee imposed
directly on the customer by the city or by the state, or any other governmental
unit, and collected by the permittee for such governmental unit.
PERMIT: A utility use permit issued by the city pursuant to this chapter.
PERMITTEE: Any person, firm, association or corporation to whom a permit has
been issued by the city.
UTILITY SERVICE: The providing or furnishing of power, light, heat, gas,
electricity, water, sanitary sewer, telephone or cable television service by
the permittee to a customer.
UTILITY SYSTEM: The equipment, fixtures and facilities of the permittee
utilized to provide utility service to customers. (2000 Code §
17-602)
17-603: UTILITY USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person, firm, association or corporation shall construct, operate or
maintain a utility system within the city involving the use of any streets,
alleys, easements or ways of the city without having first procured a utility
use permit from the city.
   B.   Permittees holding a valid permit and who propose to extend, revise,
improve or conduct maintenance or repair operations with respect to permittee's
utility system within the city shall not be required to obtain any additional
permit under this chapter, provided notice is duly given to the city of such
proposed operations or improvements in the manner hereinafter set forth in this
chapter. (2000 Code §
17-603)
17-604: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The application for a permit shall be made in writing to the city clerk, and
shall contain the following information:
   A.   Applicant's name, mailing address, street address (if different from
mailing address), telephone number, and names of persons authorized to act on
behalf of applicant with respect to the permit;
   B.   A statement showing whether applicant is an individual, corporation,
association or partnership, and the names and addresses of partners or
principal officers, as the case may be;
   C.   A statement that the applicant, by acceptance of the permit, will
comply with all ordinances of the city and accepts all the terms of the permit
and regulations imposed by the ordinances and code of the city;
   D.   A plat in accordance with section
17-616 of this chapter, showing the general location of all pipelines, buried
lines, poles, wires, lines, installations and facilities used or to be used
within the municipal limits of the city, particularly those located or to be
located in, on, under or over streets, alleys, easements and ways of the city;
   E.   The date on which the utility system was placed in operation or is
proposed to be placed in operation;
   F.   In the instance of proposed construction or expansion of a utility
system, a general description of the project, including the location of such
installations or improvements, and the estimated time of commencement and of
completion of such work;
   G.   Evidence that applicant has duly received from state and federal
regulatory agencies any licenses, consents or other authorizations necessary
under applicable law for the applicant to construct, maintain and operate the
utility system, if applicable;
   H.   Evidence that applicant currently has in force the liability insurance
and bonds required pursuant to section
17-607 of this chapter; and
   I.   A copy of applicant's current schedule of rates or rate tariff,
applicable or to be applicable to customers within the city. (2000 Code §
17-604)
17-605: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The city clerk, acting on behalf of the city, shall issue a permit upon
completion of the following:
   A.   Satisfactory showing by the applicant that it has complied with all the
provisions of this chapter which are applicable at the time of issuance of the
permit; and
   B.   A public hearing has been held as herein required and the city has
determined that the applicant's legal, character, financial, technical and
other qualifications are satisfactory, and in the instance of proposed
construction, that applicant's construction arrangements are feasible, adequate
and in the best interests of the city and its inhabitants; provided, that
subject to subsection A of this section and the submittal of a properly
completed application pursuant to section
17-604 of this chapter, with respect to utilities already doing business within
the city under existing franchises or gross receipts tax ordinances on the
effective date hereof, such public hearing shall not be required. (2000 Code §
17-605)
17-606: LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION:
The permittee shall indemnify and hold harmless the city at all times during
the term of the permit against all damages, including, but not limited to,
damages arising out of the installation, maintenance and operation of the
permittee's utility system, whether or not any act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed or prohibited by the permit and this chapter, and all
reasonable expenses of the city incurred in defending itself; provided,
however, that in the event of any claim or claims being prosecuted against the
city, the permittee shall have the right to defend against the same, and to
settle or discharge same in such manner as it may see fit, and the city shall
give prompt written notice to the permittee of the presentation or prosecution
of such claims. (2000 Code §
17-606)
17-607: LIABILITY INSURANCE AND BONDS:
The permittee, during the term of the permit, shall have and maintain a general
public liability insurance policy, under the terms of which the permittee shall
be insured to the extent of not less than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for any injury to any one person, one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for injuries per occurrence, and five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for damage or injury to any property, in connection with the
construction, operation and maintenance of permittee's utility system. In lieu
of insurance, the permittee shall be allowed to provide evidence satisfactory
to the city council of self-insurance by demonstrating financial capabilities
adequate to cover such losses. Any such insurance policies, and any such plan
of self-insurance shall make the city an additional insured, and shall cover
the permittee and the city for any injury or damage sustained by any persons
from any negligent act committed by the permittee, or any of its agents or
employees, during the course of installation, maintenance or operation of its
utility system within the city. The permittee shall also have and maintain any
bonds required by the state or any state or federal regulatory agency for the
operation of its utility system, and shall provide evidence thereof to the city
upon reasonable request. Any insurance or bonds required hereunder shall be
executed by companies authorized to do business in the state, and current
certificates of insurance shall be furnished to the city. (2000 Code §
17-607)
17-608: OBLIGATIONS OF PERMITTEE:
The permittee shall in full compliance with the standards and regulations
applicable to such permittee by the state and federal regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction:
   A.   Maintain its utility system in a good and safe condition;
   B.   Render efficient service to customers, including, but not limited to,
promptly making repairs to minimize service interruptions, insofar as
reasonably possible, and by maintaining either an office, or a local or toll
free telephone number whereby customers may contact permittee to register
complaints, advise of service interruptions or mechanical malfunctions and
otherwise avail themselves of permittee's services; and
   C.   Cooperate with the city in case of emergency or disaster to help assure
the shutoff of malfunctioning utility lines or facilities and the prompt repair
or restoration of service, in coordination with the city's efforts to maintain,
repair or restore the use of streets, alleys and utilities of the city. (2000
Code §
17-608)
17-609: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
During the term of the permit, the permittee is granted the right and privilege
to use the public ways of the city in order to engage in the business of
operating its utility system in the city, and for that purpose, to erect,
install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain, operate and retain
in, over, under, upon, across and along any public street, alley or easement
now laid out or dedicated, or which may be hereinafter dedicated, and which is
described in the application of permittee, within the city, such poles, wires,
cables, conductors, ducts, conduit vaults, manholes, pipelines, pumping
stations, and such other property as may be reasonably necessary and pertinent
to permittee's utility system, and in addition, to use, operate, maintain or
provide similar facilities or properties rendered or leased from other persons,
firms or corporations, including, but not limited to, a public utility or other
grantee franchised or permitted to do business in the city. Provided, this
right shall be nonexclusive, and the city shall have the right to grant a
similar use and permit to others, and the right to grant other uses of streets
and alleys of the city. (2000 Code §
17-609)
17-610: CONDITIONS FOR USE OF STREETS AND ALLEYS:
The permittee shall be subject to the following conditions with respect to the
use of the streets, alleys and ways of the city:
   A.   Use: All transmission and distribution lines, structures and equipment
erected or maintained by the permittee within the city shall be located at the
places authorized by the city, and so located as to cause minimum interference
with the proper use of streets, alleys and easements, and to cause minimum
interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of adjoining property
owners. The permittee shall give the city notice of any proposed change or
construction of equipment prior to making such changes, and shall furnish
construction plans to the city regarding the type of facilities intended to be
constructed, and the particular location thereof;
   B.   Restoration: In the case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk,
driveway or other surface, the permittee shall, at its own cost and expense and
in a manner approved by the city, promptly replace and restore any public
paving, sidewalk, driveway or surface of any street, alley or easement
disturbed so as to leave it in as good a condition as before the work was
commenced, failing which the city shall, after providing reasonable notice to
permittee, be entitled to make such restoration and the permittee shall be
liable for the reasonable cost thereof;
   C.   Relocation: In the event that at any time during the period of the
permit the city shall elect to change the grade of or alter any street, alley
or easement, upon reasonable notice by the city, the permittee shall move, re-
lay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, lines and other fixtures at its own
expense;
   D.   Temporary Removal Of Wire For Building Moving: The permittee shall,
upon the request of any person holding a building removal permit issued by the
city, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit moving of buildings, the
expense of which shall be paid by the person requesting the same. The permittee
shall be authorized to require such payment in advance. The permittee shall be
entitled to be given at least forty eight (48) hours notice to arrange for
temporary wire changes;
   E.   Tree Trimming: The permittee shall be authorized to trim trees upon and
overhanging streets, alleys, sidewalks and public easements so as to prevent
the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires, cables and
other equipment of the permittee. All trimming shall be subject to the
supervision and direction of the city and at the expense of the permittee; and
   F.   Placement Of Fixtures And Equipment: The permittee shall not place
poles, cable, pipelines or other fixtures where such equipment will interfere
with telephone wire or conduit, water hydrants, water or sewer mains, gas lines
or other public utilities existing at the time of placement. The city shall
have and retain the right to reasonably regulate the erection or construction
of any transmission line or pipeline structure or equipment and to designate
where such lines shall be placed. Permittee shall file with the city clerk
construction plans at least fourteen (14) days prior to installation, except in
case of emergency or of repairs to existing equipment, when notice reasonable
under the circumstances shall be given. (2000 Code §
17-610)
17-611: ERECTION, REMOVAL AND JOINT USE OF POLES:
   A.   No poles, conduits, or other wire holding structures shall be erected
or installed by the permittee after the effective date hereof without prior
approval of the city, acting through its engineer or utilities manager, as to
location, height, type of structure and other pertinent aspects. The location
of any poles, conduit or wire holding structure of the permittee shall not be a
vested right and such structures, conduit or poles shall be moved or modified
by the permittee at its own expense upon order and upon reasonable notice by
the city.
   B.   Where poles, conduits or other wire holding structures of any public
utility or of the city are available for use by the permittee, the city may
require the permittee to use such poles, conduits and structures if the
permission and consent of such public utility or the city can be obtained by
the permittee, the structure is adequate for such use, and if the terms of the
use available to the permittee are reasonable under the circumstances.
   C.   Where a public utility serving the city desires to make use of the
poles, conduits or other wire holding structures of the permittee, but
agreement therefor with the permittee cannot be reached, the city, by action of
the city council, may require the permittee to permit such use for such
consideration and upon such terms as the council shall determine to be just and
reasonable, if such use is found not to unreasonably interfere with the
permittee's operation; and provided further, that such use shall meet the
minimum safety standards of the applicable provisions of the national
electrical safety code.
   D.   Where city owned utility poles are available for use by the permittee,
the permittee shall pay the city the same pole rental per annum as paid by the
permittee for the use of poles owned by other public utilities. (2000 Code §
17-611)
17-612: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The permittee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install
and maintain is equipment and installations as required by the Oklahoma
corporation commission or other state or federal regulatory body having
jurisdiction over permittee, so as to impose no unreasonable risk of harm to
the public, and shall employ and have available methods and devices commonly
used in permittee's industry to adequately respond to failures and accidents
which are likely to cause damage, injuries or nuisance to the public. Provided,
in the event permittee is not subject to the jurisdiction of a state or federal
regulatory agency with respect to its operations and the safety thereof, then
permittee shall cause all of its installations to be made and operated in
accordance with the building, electrical and other safety codes of the city and
of the national electrical safety code, as adopted by the corporation
commission of Oklahoma (NESC). Provided further, in the event there is a
conflict between the applicable provisions of the safety codes of the city and
of the NESC, the provisions of the NESC shall prevail.
   B.   All structures and all lines, equipment and connections in, over, under
and upon the streets and alleys, wherever situated or located, shall be at all
times kept and maintained in a safe, suitable, substantial condition and in
good repair and order.
   C.   The permittee shall have and maintain either a local telephone number
or a toll free telephone number where members of the public can call permittee
to report failures or dangerous situations with respect to permittee's
operations and facilities, and shall have a sufficient number of employees
within a reasonable distance of the city so as to be able to provide safe,
adequate and prompt service to customers and respond to emergencies or outages
in a reasonable time. (2000 Code §
17-612)
17-613: COMPLAINTS:
Permittee shall use its reasonable efforts to respond to and resolve complaints
of customers and of residents of the city regarding permittee's service,
operations or facilities. Should a complaint be unresolved, the city shall have
the right to meet jointly with the permittee and the person registering the
complaint, in an effort to fully discuss and resolve such matters. Nothing
herein shall be construed as creating an obligation on the part of the city to
arbitrate or settle any dispute or complaint. (2000 Code §
17-613)
17-614: PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
The permittee shall not, with respect to rates, charges, service facilities,
rules, regulations or other aspects of its service, make or grant any
preference or advantage to any person or subject any person to any prejudice or
disadvantage, or unreasonably discriminate against any person. Nothing herein
shall be deemed to prohibit the establishment of a graduated scale of charges
and classified rates, based on a rational basis or scheme of classification, to
which any customer coming within such classification would be entitled. (2000
Code §
17-614)
17-615: SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION AND EXTENSION:
   A.   Where permittee is the only provider of its particular service or type
of service within the city, permittee shall use its best efforts to extend its
facilities so as to provide service to all persons in the city requesting such
service, provided such extension is technically, physically and economically
feasible, as reasonably determined by the permittee.
   B.   Each permittee under this chapter, whether or not permittee is a sole
provider of service, shall, as a condition of retaining its permit, promptly
advise the city in writing of any and all extensions to its system within the
city, and shall provide the city clerk with drawings or plats showing the
general location of such extensions, so as to allow the city to have and
maintain an up to date plat of the generalized location of all of permittee's
facilities within the city. (2000 Code §
17-615)
17-616: MAPS, PLATS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Each permittee shall file annually with the city clerk, not later than
ninety (90) days after the end of the permittee's fiscal year, a report
summarizing:
      1.   In the case of permittees not subject to a gross receipts tax or
franchise tax as provided in subsection 17-619B of this chapter, the gross
revenues received by permittee for its operations within the city for such
fiscal year; or
      2.   In the case of permittees subject to the provisions of subsection
17-619B of this chapter, the gross revenues required to be reported under such
franchise or gross receipts tax ordinance. Further, such report shall indicate
any changes in the officers, partners or management personnel occurring since
the permittee's last report.
   B.   Each permittee shall provide to the city clerk a current plat or map
showing the general location of its utility system within the city, on a yearly
basis. In addition, permittee shall provide the city clerk with maps or plats
regarding system extensions as required in subsection 17-615B of this chapter.
The maps or plats shall be and remain the personal property of the permittee,
shall be used only to provide general information as to the location of the
utility system and shall be used by the city only to perform generalized
planning for the maintenance and growth of its infrastructure. It is hereby
declared in the interests of protecting the health, welfare and safety of the
general public that the aforementioned maps shall not be construed to be public
records, and therefore shall not be available to the public, except as required
under the Oklahoma open records act. The city or its employees shall not
knowingly allow the maps or plats to be used in any way that may cause any harm
to the permittee through damages to the permittee's facilities or through
allowing any unfair competitive advantage to any utility.
   C.   Nothing herein shall serve to relieve or be construed to relieve the
city or any member of the public from obligations imposed under 63 Oklahoma
Statutes sections 142.1 through 142.11, the underground facilities damage
prevention act, or similar applicable laws regarding use of the Oklahoma "one
call" system. (2000 Code §
17-616)
17-617: TERM OF PERMIT; RENEWALS:
   A.   Each permit issued hereunder shall be issued for an initial term of one
year from its date.
   B.   Permits shall be renewable for an additional term of one year, and may
continue to be renewed from year to year, so long as permittee remains in
compliance with this chapter.
   C.   Permits shall be deemed to be automatically renewed from year to year
without any further action on the part of the permittee, so long as permittee
continues to pay the fees provided for herein, and otherwise continues to
perform in accordance with this chapter. (2000 Code §
17-617)
17-618: RATES:
Rates charged for the public services provided by permittee shall be subject to
review and regulation by the city (unless exclusive jurisdiction thereof is
vested in an agency of the state or federal government), in accordance with
Oklahoma constitution article 18, section 7, and with this code and ordinances
of the city, and other applicable provisions of the constitution and laws of
the state. With respect to rates over which the city has power to regulate, no
rate changes shall become effective until approved by the city council after
public hearing. (2000 Code §
17-618)
17-619: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section, in
consideration of the issuance of the permit and the granting of the privileges
thereunder, the permittee shall pay to the city the sum of not to exceed three
percent (3%) of the gross revenues derived by the permittee from operation of
its utility system within the city for the year in which the permit is in
effect. The fee shall be payable in arrears, in quarterly installments, on or
prior to the tenth of the months of January, April, July and October, as
applicable, commencing on the first day of the calendar quarter next following
the issuance of the permit, and quarterly thereafter so long as the permit is
in effect, and the proceeds thereof shall be placed in the general revenue fund
of the city.
   B.   In lieu of the fee imposed by subsection A of this section, any
permittee:
      1.   Subject to payment of the city gross receipts tax pursuant to
ordinance 143, or other ordinance of the city imposing a tax on the gross
receipts from residential and commercial sales of gas, electricity or water
within the city; or
      2.   Subject to a franchise tax pursuant to a franchise from the city
duly granted in accordance with article 18, section 5(a) of the Oklahoma
constitution, and approved by city voters at an election held for that purpose,
shall be permitted to pay such tax, and the payment of such tax shall be deemed
to be in lieu of payment of the fee imposed by this chapter, and in full
satisfaction thereof.
   C.   The city shall have the right to have access to, and to audit the books
and records of any permittee, with respect to determining the fees payable
pursuant to this chapter. The exercise of audit rights by the city shall not
unreasonably interfere with permittee's ordinary business operations. (2000
Code §
17-619)
17-620: TRANSFERS:
The permit shall not be transferable, except with the express consent of the
city council after public hearing. Nothing herein shall prevent the permittee
from pledging its assets as security for the purpose of obtaining financing.
(2000 Code §
17-620)
17-621: PROCEDURE; PUBLIC HEARING:
Any public hearing required herein shall be held only after notice thereof is
authorized by the city council, and notice is published at least twice on two
(2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, with
the first publication thereof being at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing, and with a copy of the notice being mailed to the permittee at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing. The notice shall state the matter to be
heard, the time and place of the hearing, and that at the hearing any
interested person may appear and be heard. The cost of publication of such
notice shall be borne by the person requesting the hearing, if other than the
city. The city council shall review the results of the public hearing and shall
approve the issuance of the permit by the city clerk upon a showing that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied by the applicant. (2000 Code §
17-621)
17-622: PROCEDURE ON TERMINATION OF PERMIT:
Upon the termination of the permit, whether by revocation, expiration by virtue
of nonpayment of fees, or other causes, the right of the permittee shall cease,
and it shall, subject to the provisions of section
17-626 of this chapter, and unless constrained by obligations under the rules
and regulations of a state or federal regulatory agency having jurisdiction
thereof, within the earliest reasonable time, remove its property and
facilities from the streets, alleys and easements of the city, and shall
restore the surface of such ways to their previous condition. (2000 Code §
17-622)
17-623: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   In addition to all other rights and powers of the city arising by
virtue of the permit issued by virtue of this chapter, which permit is deemed
to be revocable and nonexclusive, or under other applicable laws, the city
shall have the right to revoke any permit and all rights and privileges
thereunder in the event that the permittee:
      1.   Wilfully violates any provision of this chapter or this code,
including, but not limited to, failure to pay the permit fee within thirty (30)
days after the date the fee is due to the city;
      2.   Becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its just and owing
debts, or is adjudged bankrupt; or
      3.   Attempts to evade any of the provisions of this chapter or of the
permit by any fraud, deceit or misrepresentation upon the city.
   B.   The city shall not exercise its right of revocation until after the
conduct of a public hearing, affording the permittee an opportunity to appear
and be heard. (2000 Code §
17-623)
17-624: AMENDMENTS:
This chapter, including the fees imposed hereunder, shall be subject to
amendment by action of the city council from time to time as such council shall
deem appropriate. (2000 Code §
17-624)
17-625: ACCEPTANCE:
By acceptance of a permit, the permittee shall be deemed to have agreed to, and
accepted in full, the provisions of this chapter, and the obligations imposed
on the permittee herein. (2000 Code §
17-625)
17-626: INTERPRETATION:
The provisions of this chapter shall not impair the rights of permittees under
existing contracts with the city. If any section, sentence, clause, paragraph
or other portion of this chapter shall conflict or be inconsistent with the
provisions of a written franchise, utility use permit or other contract between
the city and a permittee in effect as of the effective date hereof, then the
provisions of the earlier agreement shall control. Further, if or to the extent
any section, sentence, clause, paragraph or other portion of this chapter shall
conflict or be inconsistent with the applicable rules and regulations of a
state or federal regulatory agency having general jurisdiction over permittee
and its operations, then the applicable rules and regulations of such
regulatory agency shall control. (2000 Code §
17-626)
CHAPTER 7
POWER LINE SITING AND DESIGN BOARD
SECTION:
17-701: Created
17-702: Membership
17-703: Plans, Application
17-704: Underground Lines
17-705: Nonapplicable To Existing Franchisees
17-701: CREATED:
   A.   There is hereby created the city power line siting and design board.
Such board is established pursuant to the directives of house bill 1739 passed
by the Oklahoma state legislature in 2008. Said HB 1739 provides for a right
for electric utilities to use the street and alleyways of the city subject to
and in compliance with the lawful safety requirements of the municipality as to
the matter of constructing and maintaining facilities along, upon, under, and
across thoroughfares.
   B.   The city power line siting and design board is hereby established by
the city to develop valid construction standards and safety rules for the use
of public ways in the city by all utilities, including the city electric
department.
   C.   According to the provisions of HB 1739, cities are directed to
establish methods to encourage the orderly development of electric services,
conserve natural resources, minimize unnecessary use of the public rights of
way, avoid needless and wasteful duplication of electric facilities within the
state and provide safe, economical and cost effective electric service to
retail consumers.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the city power line siting and design board to
ensure that the purposes of HB 1739 are achieved by reviewing all applications
for power line distribution construction in the city. The board shall review
all applications and will approve the application or amend the application by
providing the methods that shall be used to accomplish the construction so that
the construction meets the goals of the retail electric consumer cost
reduction, safety and service efficiency act of 2008. (Ord. 236, 11-16-2010)
17-702: MEMBERSHIP:
The members of the power line siting and design board shall include the city
manager, the public works director, and four (4) members of the community
appointed by the mayor, with confirmation by the city council. The initial
terms for appointed positions one through four (4) will be for one, two (2),
three (3) and four (4) years respectively, with appointments thereafter being
for four (4) year periods of time. The members will appoint a chairperson from
among the members appointed by the mayor and city council. The board will meet
from time to time at the call of the chairperson and on the last Tuesday of
each month. (Ord. 236, 11-16-2010)
17-703: PLANS, APPLICATION:
All construction of all power lines within the city shall be constructed only
after submission of plans for such construction to the city power line siting
and design board. Such plans may be carried out by a utility only after
approval of the construction by the board, with final approval provided by the
city council or the Stroud utilities authority. The city council may approve or
disapprove a recommendation of the board, but it may not amend any
recommendation. It may send an application back to the board for further
review. (Ord. 236, 11-16-2010)
17-704: UNDERGROUND LINES:
HB 1739 found that duplicate overhead power lines are a safety hazard and
should not be permitted. It is therefore the goal of the governing body of the
city that power lines constructed in the future should be underground wherever
possible, and the city power line siting and design board should take all
measures needed to ensure the use of underground facilities by utilities. The
board shall ensure that use of the rights of way are done in such a manner as
to ensure the public safety and the best use of limited rights of way area as
mandated by HB 1739. (Ord. 236, 11-16-2010)
17-705: NONAPPLICABLE TO EXISTING FRANCHISEES:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to electric utilities that hold
a valid franchise for operations in the city. (Ord. 236, 11-16-2010)
