THE VILLAGE, OK
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 772, passed 11-20-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AND ENACTING A NEW CODE OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE, OKLAHOMA PROVIDING FOR THE
REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE
VIOLATION THEREOF PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE AND PROVIDING
WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE
Section 1. The Code entitled "Code of Ordinances, City of The Village,"
published by the City of The Village consisting of Chapters 1 through 26, each
inclusive, is hereby adopted.
Section 2. All penal ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before December 5, 2022, and not included in the Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein are repealed.
Section 3. The repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not be construed
to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent
ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4. Whenever in such Code or in any other ordinance of the city, or in
any rule, regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the city
under authority duly vested in him, or it, any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or the doing of any act
is required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, or an
offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefore, the
violation of any such provisions of such code or any other ordinance of the
city of such rule, regulation or order shall be punished as indicated below:
   (1)   If the violation is a Class A offense, it shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), or by imprisonment not
exceeding sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment
   (2)   If the violation is a Class B offense, it shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   If any act or omission is declared to be a Class A or Class B offense, it
shall be punishable as provided in subsection 4 (1) or (2). In the absence of
any penalty or classification being specified, an offense shall be a Class B
offense.
   The provisions above notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that
established by state statute for the same offense. Except as otherwise
provided, every day any violation of this Code or any other ordinance of the
city or any rule regulation or order shall continue, shall constitute a
separate offense. The penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty
is expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any Code section whether
or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to
the penalty prescribed above, the city may pursue other remedies such as
abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief, and revocation of licenses or
permits.
Section 5. Additions or amendments to the Code, when passed in the form as to
indicate the intention of the city to make the same a part of the Code, shall
be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code
includes the additions and amendments.
Section 6. Ordinances adopted after December 7, 2020, that amend or refer to
ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if they
amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 7. The continuance in effect of non-penal, temporary and/or special
ordinances and parts of ordinances, although omitted from the Code, shall not
be affected by such omission there from and the adoption of the Code shall not
repeal or amend any such ordinance or part of any such ordinance. Among, but
not limited to, the non-penal, temporary and/or special ordinances not repealed
or amended by the adoption of the code, are the following: Ordinances creating,
opening, dedicating, vacating, or closing specific streets, alleys and other
public ways naming or changing the names of specific streets and other public
ways establishing grades of specific streets and other public ways authorizing
or relating to specific issues of bonds creating or relating to specific sewer
and paving districts and other specific local improvement districts making
special assessments for local improvements annexing territory to or excluding
territory from the city calling or providing for special election approving or
authorizing specific contracts with the state or with others authorizing lease,
sale or purchase of property granting rights-of-way or other rights and
privileges to specific railroad companies or others granting a specific public
utility or any other person, firm or corporation the right or privilege of
constructing lines in the streets and alleys or of otherwise using the streets
and alleys, granting a franchise to a specific public utility, or regulating a
specific public utility or amending the zoning map, or including specific
property within or deleting specific property from any zoning district or
classification or affecting the city budget or relating to salaries of city
officers or employees.
Section 8. Whereas, it being necessary for the preservation of the public
health, peace, and safety of the City of The Village, Oklahoma, an emergency is
declared to exist and by reason thereof this ordinance shall take full force
from and after its adoption.
   PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE, OKLAHOMA,
this 5th day of December 2022, after compliance with notice requirements of the
Open Meeting Law (Title 25, O.S. § 301, et seq).
            _______________________________
            SONNY WILKINSON, MAYOR
ATTEST:
_________________
CITY CLERK
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY this 5th day of December 2022.
            _______________________________
            CITY ATTORNEY
CHARTER
Art. I.      Incorporation, Form of Government, Powers §§ 1--3
Art. II.      The Council, §§ 4--19
Art. III.      City Manager and Administrative Departments, §§ 20--25
Art. IV.   Department of Finance, fiscal Affairs, §§ 26--33
Art. V.      Municipal Court, §§34
Art. VI.   Elections, §§ 35--40
Art. VII.   Recall, §§ 41--45
Art.VIII.   Miscellaneous Provisions, §§ 46--59
Art. IX.   Amendment, §§ 60, 61
Art. X.      Succession in Government, §§ 62--65
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the City of the City of The Village, exercising the powers
of home rule granted to us by the Constitution and laws of the State of
Oklahoma, in order to provide for more efficient, adequate, and economical
government, do hereby ordain, ratify, and establish this Charter of the City of
The Village, Oklahoma.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, POWERS
Sec. 1. Incorporation, annexation, merging.
   When this charter goes into effect, the Town of The Village, Oklahoma, shall
become a city, and within the corporate limits as now established or as
hereafter may be established, shall be a municipal body politic and corporate
in perpetuity under the name of the "City of The Village, Oklahoma", the city
shall be the legal successor of the town and as such, it shall succeed to and
possess all the property and rights belonging to the town, and shall be liable
for all debts and other obligations for which the town is legally bound at the
time of the succession in government.
   The City of The Village, Oklahoma, may not be annexed by any other city or
be merged into a combined county-city government or other governmental unit
unless a majority of the qualified electors of the City of The Village voting
on the question at an election approve such annexation or merging.
Sec. 2. Form of government.
   The municipal government provided by this charter shall be known as the
"council-manager government'. All powers of the city shall be exercised in the
manner prescribed by this charter, or, if the manner is not thus prescribed,
then in such manner as the council may prescribe.
Sec. 3. Powers of the city.
   The city shall have all powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises,
and immunities granted to cities by the state constitution and law, and all the
implied powers necessary to carry into execution all the powers granted. Except
as prohibited by the state constitution and law, the city shall have all
municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, franchises and immunities of
every name and nature whatsoever.
   The city shall have power to adopt a corporate seal and to alter it at
pleasure, to sue and to be sued, and to make contracts. It shall have power to
acquire property within or without its corporate limits for any city purpose,
including public utilities, works and ways, in fee simple or any lesser
interest or estate, by purchase, gift, devise, lease, condemnation or other
legal means and to hold, maintain, improve, enlarge, manage, control, operate,
lease, sell, convey or otherwise dispose of, such property as its interests may
require, including public utilities, works and ways. It shall have power to
issue bonds in the manner and within the limitations prescribed by the state
constitution and law. It shall have power, within the limits prescribed by the
state constitution and law, to accept and administer federal and state grants-
in-aid and to do everything necessary to accomplish the purpose or purposes for
which such grants may be made. It shall have power to ordain and to enforce
local legislation, consistent with the state constitution and law, for the
proper organization and functioning of the city government, for the
preservation and enforcement of good government and order, for the protection
of health, life, morals, and property, for the prevention and summary abatement
and removal of nuisances, and otherwise for the promotion of the common
welfare. It shall have power to grant, extend and renew franchises in
accordance with the state constitution and law.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this charter shall not be deemed to
be exclusive or limiting and in addition to powers enumerated herein or implied
hereby, the city shall have all powers which, under the state constitution and
law, it would be competent for this charter specifically to enumerate.
   Provisions of state law relating to matters which may be regulated by cities
operating under charters, shall be in effect only insofar as they are
applicable and are not superseded by this charter or by ordinance.
ARTICLE II. THE COUNCIL
Sec. 4. Council: Created, number of members, qualifications.
   As soon as practicable after this charter goes into effect, the council by
ordinance shall create five (5) wards, and by ordinance may change the ward
boundaries from time to time. There shall be a council of five (5) members,
which shall consist of one councilman from each of the five (5) wards of the
city. Only qualified electors residing in the city and, at the time of their
election, in the respective wards from which they are candidates, shall be
qualified for the offices of councilman. Removal of a councilman from one (1)
ward or precinct to another within the city after his election, or a change in
ward or precinct boundaries shall not disqualify him from completing the term
for which he was elected. No councilman may hold any office or position in the
city government by appointment by the city manager.
Sec. 5. Mayor and vice mayor.
   At the first meeting after the time prescribed for the beginning of the
terms of newly elected councilmen, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the
council shall elect from its membership a mayor and a vice mayor, who shall
serve until the time prescribed for the beginning of the terms of the next
newly elected councilmen and until their respective successors have been
elected and qualify.
   The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council and shall certify to the
correct enrollment of all ordinances and resolutions passed by it. He shall be
recognized as the head of the city government for all ceremonial purposes and
by the governor for purposes of military law. He shall have no regular
administrative duties except that he shall sign such written obligations of the
city as the council may require. As a councilman, he shall have all powers,
rights, privileges, duties, and responsibilities of a councilman, including the
right to vote on questions.
   The vice mayor shall act as mayor during the absence, disability, or
suspension of the mayor, or, if a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor, until
another mayor is elected by the council from its membership for completion of
the unexpired term and qualifies. If the office of vice mayor becomes vacant,
the council shall elect from its membership another vice-mayor for completion
of the unexpired term.
Sec. 6. Councilmen: Compensation.
   Each councilman shall be paid a salary of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per
month.
Sec. 7. Council: Powers.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all powers of the city,
including the determination of all matters of policy, shall be vested in the
council. Without limitation of the foregoing, the council may:
   (1)   Appoint and remove the city manager as provided in this charter
   (2)   By ordinance, enact municipal legislation
   (3)   Raise revenue and make appropriations, regulate bond elections, the
issuance of bonds, sinking funds, the refunding of indebtedness, salaries and
wages, and all other fiscal affairs of the city, subject to the provisions of
the state constitution and law and this charter
   (4)   Establish or adopt a pension, retirement and/or social security system
or systems for any or all groups of the officers and employees in the service
of the city, either alone or in cooperation with the state or federal
government or both
   (5)   Inquire into the conduct of any office, department, or agency of the
city, and investigate municipal affairs.
   (6)   Appoint or elect and remove its own subordinates, the members of the
personnel board, the members of the planning commission, the members of the
board of adjustment, and other quasi-legislative, quasi-judicial or advisory
officers and authorities, now or when and if established, or prescribe the
method of appoint or electing and removing them
   (7)   Grant pardons for violations of the charter and ordinances, including
the remission of fines and costs, upon the recommendation of the municipal
judge
   (8)   Regulate elections, the initiative and referendum, and recall, within
the limits prescribed by the state constitution and law and this charter
   (9)   Regulate the organization, powers duties and functions of the
municipal court and of the minor violations bureau, when and if established,
within the limits prescribed by the state constitution and law and this charter
   (10)   Create, change, and abolish all offices, departments, and agencies of
the city other than the offices, departments and agencies created by this
charter and assign additional powers, duties and functions to offices,
departments and agencies created by this charter.
Sec. 8. Council not to interfere in appointments and removals.
    Neither the council, the mayor nor any of its other members may direct or
request the appointment of any person to, or his removal from, office or
employment by the city manager or by any other authority, or, except as
provided in this charter, participate in any manner in the appointment or
removal of officers and employees of the city. Except for the purpose of
inquiry, the council and its members shall deal with the administrative service
solely through the city manager and neither the council not any member thereof
may give orders on administrative matters to any subordinate of the city
manager either publicly or privately.
Sec. 9. City clerk to be clerical officer of council.
   The city clerk, hereinafter provided for, shall also serve as clerical
officer of the council. He shall keep the journal of its proceedings, and shall
enroll in a book or books kept for the purpose all ordinances and resolutions
passed by it shall be custodian of such documents, records and archives as may
be provided by applicable law or ordinance shall be custodian of the seal of
the city and shall attest, and affix the seal to, documents when required in
accordance with applicable law or ordinance.
Sec. 10. Council: Induction into office, meetings.
   The terms of office of councilmen shall begin at 7:30 p.m. on the first
Monday in May following their election. The council shall hold a meeting at
that time, and those whose terms are beginning shall be inducted into office.
If a councilman-elect fails to qualify within one (1) month thereafter, his
office shall become vacant, and the council shall fill the vacancy. The council
shall hold at least one (1) regular meeting every month at such times as it may
prescribe by ordinance or otherwise. The mayor or any three (3) councilmen may
call special meetings. All meetings of the council shall be open to the public,
and the journal of its proceedings shall be open to public inspection.
Sec. 11. Council: Absences to terminate membership.
   It the mayor or any other councilman shall be absent from more than one-half
of all the meetings of the council, regular and special, held within any period
of four (4) consecutive months, he shall thereupon cease to hold office.
Sec. 12. Councilmen: Removal.
   The mayor or any other councilman may be removed from office for any cause
specified by applicable state law for the removal of officers and by the method
or methods prescribed thereby and may also be removed by recall as provided in
this charter.
Sec. 13. Council: Vacancies.
   The council, by majority vote of its remaining members, shall fill vacancies
in its own membership for the unexpired terms provided that, if a vacancy
occurs before the beginning of a regular filing period for candidates for
councilmen, and the unexpired term extends beyond 7:30 p.m. on the next first
Monday in May, then a councilman for that place shall be elected at the
election of that year to serve the rest of the unexpired term beginning at 7:30
p.m. on said first Monday in May.
Sec. 14. Council: Quorum, rules, yeas, and nays.
   A majority of all of the members of the council shall constitute a quorum,
but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day or from time to time. The
council may determine its own rules. On the demand of any member, the vote on
any question shall be by yeas and nays and shall be entered in the journal.
Sec. 15. Ordinances: Enacting clause.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the council shall be, "Be it
ordained by the Council of the City of The Village, Oklahoma," and of all
ordinances proposed by the voters under their power of initiative, "Be it
ordained by the People of the City of The Village, Oklahoma,"
Sec. 16. Ordinances: Passage, when in effect.
   Every proposed ordinance shall be read, and a vote of a majority of all the
councilmen shall be required for its passage. The vote on final passage of
every ordinance shall be by yeas and nays and shall be entered in the journal.
The mayor shall have no power of veto. Within ten (10) days after its passage,
every ordinance except an emergency ordinance shall be published in full or by
number and title in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. Every
ordinance except an emergency ordinance, so passed and published, shall become
effective thirty (30) days after its final passage and publication unless it
specifies a later time provided that an ordinance granting a franchise to a
public utility shall not go into effect until it has been published in full in
a newspaper of general circulation within the city and has been approved at an
election by a vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting on the
question.
Sec. 17. Ordinances: Emergency.
   An emergency ordinance is an ordinance which in the judgment of the council
is necessary for the immediate preservation of peace, health, or safety, and
which should become effective prior to the time when an ordinary ordinance
would become effective. Every such ordinance shall contain, as a part of its
title, the words, "and declaring an emergency': and in a separate section,
herein called the emergency section, shall declare the emergency. The council
shall vote on the emergency section separately and must adopt the section by a
vote of at least four-fifths of all the members of the council, which vote
shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be entered in the journal. An emergency
ordinance shall take effect upon passage unless it specifies a later time.
Sec. 18. Ordinances: Adoption by reference.
   The council by ordinance may adopt by reference codes, ordinances,
standards, and regulations relating to building, plumbing, electrical
installations, milk and milk products, and other matters which it has power to
regulate otherwise. Such code, ordinance, standard or regulations so adopted
need not be enrolled in the book of ordinances, but a copy shall be filed and
kept in the office of the city clerk. The city clerk shall keep copies of all
such codes, ordinances, standards, and regulations in force for distribution or
sale at their approximate cost.
Sec. 19. Ordinances: Codification.
   The ordinances of the city shall be codified and published in book or
pamphlet form at least every ten (10) years unless the council, by uses of a
loose-leaf system and process of amendment, keeps the code up to date. Titles,
enacting clauses, and emergency sections may be omitted from the code and
temporary and special ordinances and parts of ordinances, which are to be
repealed by the code, shall be omitted from the code. The ordinances and parts
of ordinance included in the code may be revised, rearranged, and reorganized
and the code may contain new matter, provisions of the state constitution and
law relating to the city and provisions of this charter. A copy of the
published code shall be filed in the office of the city clerk after the council
adopts the code by ordinance, but the code need not be enrolled in the book of
ordinances.
ARTICLE III. CITY MANAGER AND ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
Sec. 20. City manager: Appointment, term, qualifications, removal.
   There shall be a city manager. The council shall appoint him for an
indefinite term by a vote of a majority of all its members.
   It shall choose him solely on the basis of his executive and administrative
qualifications. At the time of his appointment, he may not be a resident of the
city or state but, during his tenure of office, he shall reside within the
city. Neither the mayor nor any other councilman may be appointed city manager
or acting city manager during the term for which he shall have been elected nor
within two (2) years after the expiration of his term. The council may suspend
or remove the city manager at any time by a vote of a majority of all its
members.
Sec. 21. Acting city manager.
   If the city manager is absent from the city or is unable to perform his
duties, if the council suspends the city manager, or if there is a vacancy in
the office of city manager, the council may appoint an acting city manager to
service until the city manager returns, until his disability or suspension
ceases, or until another city manager is appointed and qualified as the case
may be. The council may suspend or remove an acting city manager at any time.
Sec. 22. City manager: Powers and duties.
   The city manager shall be chief executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the city government. He shall execute the laws and
ordinances and administer the government of the city and shall be responsible
therefore to the council. He shall:
   (1)   Appoint, and when deemed necessary for the good of the service, lay
off, suspend, demote or remove all directors, or heads, of administrative
departments and all other administrative officers and employees of the city,
except as otherwise provided by this charter, and except as he or the council
by ordinance may authorize the head of a department, and officer or an agency
to appoint, lay off, suspend, demote and/or remove subordinates in such
department, office or agency, subject to such merit-system regulations as the
council may adopt
   (2)   Supervise and control, directly or indirectly, all officers and
employees whose appointments are provided for above in this section
   (3)   Prepare a budget annually and submit it to the council, be responsible
for the administration of the budget after it goes into effect, and recommend
to the council any changes in the budget which he deems desirable
   (4)   Submit to the council a report as of the end of the fiscal year on the
finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year
   (5)   Keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs
of the city and make recommendations on matters of policy and other matters to
the council as may seem to him desirable.
   (6)   Have such other powers, duties and functions as this charter may
prescribe, and such powers, duties, and functions consistent with this charter
as the council may prescribe.
Sec. 23. Administrative departments, offices, and agencies.
   There shall be a department of finance and such other administrative
departments, offices and agencies as this charter establishes and as the
council may establish.
Sec. 24. Public library.
The public library or libraries, when and if established, shall constitute, or
be a part of, an administrative department and shall be under the supervision
and control of an officer or of a board established by ordinance and appointed
by the city manager, as the council may ordain. Also, the council may
authorize, or enter into arrangements for, a joint or cooperative library
service with other units or agencies of government.
Sec. 25. City attorney.
   There shall be a city attorney, who shall be an officer of the city
appointed by the council for an indefinite term, and who shall be head of the
department of law. He shall have such powers, duties and functions as may be
prescribed by the charter, by applicable law or by ordinance.
ARTICLE IV. DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, FISCAL AFFAIRS
Sec. 26. City clerk. Office created duties.
   There shall be a city clerk, who shall be an officer of the city.
   The city manager shall be ex officio city clerk unless the council by
ordinance provides that the city manager shall appoint another person city
clerk. The city clerk shall be director, or head, of the department of finance,
and shall have supervision and control thereof. Except as the council may
provide otherwise by ordinance, the city clerk shall collect or receive revenue
and other money for the city and shall deposit the same with the city treasurer
or for the city treasurer in an account or accounts maintained by the city
treasurer in a depository or depositories. The city clerk shall maintain or
have maintained a general accounting system for the city government. He shall
have such other powers, duties and functions as may be prescribed by the
charter, applicable law or by ordinance.
Sec. 27. City treasurer: Office created duties.
    Within the department of finance, there shall be a city treasurer, who
shall be an officer of the city appointed by the city manager for an indefinite
term. Subject to such regulations as the council may prescribe, the city
treasurer shall deposit funds received for the city in such depositories as the
council may designate. He shall have such other powers, duties and functions as
may be prescribed by the charter, by applicable law or by ordinance.
Sec. 28. Purchases and sales.
   The city manager, subject to any regulations which the council may
prescribe, shall contract for and purchase, or issue purchase authorizations
for, all supplies, materials and equipment for the offices, departments, and
agencies of the city government. Every such contract or purchase exceeding an
amount to be established by ordinance shall require the prior approval of the
council. The city manager also may transfer to or between offices, departments,
and agencies, or sell surplus or obsolete supplies; materials and equipment,
subject to such regulations as the council may prescribe.
    Before the purchase of, or contract for, any supplies, materials or
equipment, or the sale of any surplus or obsolete supplies, materials or
equipment, ample opportunity for competitive bidding, under such regulations,
and with such exceptions, as the council may prescribe, shall be given but the
council shall not except a particular contract, purchase, or sale from the
requirement of competitive bidding.
   The council by ordinance may transfer some or all of the power granted to
the city manager by this section to an officer appointed by and subordinate to
the city manager.
Sec. 29. Sale of property valued at more than $25,000.00.
   The sale of any property, real or personal, including public utilities, or
of any interest therein, the value of which is more than twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00), shall be made only (1) by authority of an affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the city who vote on the
question of approving or authorizing the sale at an election, or (2) by
authority of an special non emergency ordinance. Such ordinance shall be
published in full in a newspaper of general circulation within the city within
ten (10) days after its passage and shall include a section reading
substantially as follows: "Section ______. This ordinance shall be referred to
a vote of the electors of the city if a proper referendum petition is properly
filed within thirty (30) days after its passage and publication otherwise it
shall go into effect thirty (30) days after its passage and publication."
Sec. 30. Public improvements.
   Public improvements may be made by the city government itself or by
contract. The council shall award all contracts for such improvements provided
that the council may authorize the city manager to award such contracts not
exceeding an amount to be determined by the council and subject to such
regulations as the council may prescribe. Every contract for public
improvements of more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be awarded to
the lowest and best responsible bidder after such notice and opportunity for
competitive bidding as the council may prescribe. All bids may be rejected, and
further notice and opportunity for competitive bidding may be given.
Sec. 31. Personal interest.
   Neither any councilman nor the city manager shall sell or barter anything to
the city or to a contractor supplying the city or make any contract with the
city or purchase anything from the city other than those things which the city
offers generally to the public (as for example, utility services), and then
only on the same terms as are offered to the public. Any such officer violating
this section, upon conviction thereof, shall thereby forfeit his office. Any
violation of this section, with the knowledge, express or implied, of the
person or corporation contracting with the city, shall render the contract
voidable by the city manager or the council.
Sec. 32. Fiscal year.
   The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July
and shall end on the last day of June of every calendar year.
Sec. 33. Independent annual audit.
   The council shall designate a qualified public accountant or accountants who
shall make an independent audit of the accounts and evidences of financial
transactions of the department of finance and of all other departments, offices
and agencies keeping separate or subordinate accounts or making financial
transactions, as of the end of every fiscal year at least, and who shall report
to the council and to the city manager. In lieu of the above, the council may
arrange with an appropriate state authority for such an audit when and if
permitted by law.
ARTICLE V. MUNICIPAL COURT
Sec. 34. Municipal court.
   There shall be a municipal judge, who shall be an officer of the city
appointed by the council for an indefinite term. The municipal judge shall have
original jurisdiction to hear and determine all cases involving offenses
against the charter and ordinances of the city provided that the council by
ordinance may create a minor violations bureau with authority to dispose of
cases arising out of designated minor violations, such as minor traffic and
parking violations, on request of accused persons who desire to plead guilty
and pay fines and costs. The municipal judge shall keep a record of all
proceedings of the municipal court, of the disposition of all cases, and of all
fines and other money collected. The style of all processes shall be in the
name of the city. The municipal judge may issue subpoenas, administer oaths and
affirmations, make, and enforce all proper orders, rules, and judgments, and
punish for contempt.
ARTICLE VI. ELECTIONS
Sec. 35. Overlapping terms of two years--Elected at large-- Nonpartisan
elections.
   The terms of the councilmen from wards 1, 2 and 3 under this charter, shall
expire at 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday in May in every odd-numbered year. The
first councilmen from wards 4 and 5 shall be elected in 1960 and the terms of
the councilmen from wards 4 and 5 shall expire at 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday
in May 1962 and at that time in every even-numbered year thereafter. Each year
the successors of those whose terms are expiring shall be elected for
overlapping terms of two (2) years.
   All councilmen shall be elected at large, by the qualified electors of the
entire city but candidates for councilmen must be qualified electors of their
respective wards.
   There shall be no primary election, but only a general election, herein
called "election".
   The election shall be nonpartisan, and no party designation or emblem shall
be placed on the ballots.
Sec. 36. Election: Filing.
Any qualified person may have his name placed on the ballot for the election as
a candidate for councilman from his ward by filing, not more than forty (40)
days and at least thirty (30) days prior to the election, with the secretary of
the county election board, a sworn statement of his candidacy.
Sec. 37. Election: Time, who elected, etc.
   An election shall be held on the first Tuesday of April every year to elect
councilmen to succeed those whose terms are about to expire. If only one (1)
person is a candidate for an office, he shall be elected ipso facto and his
name need not appear on the ballot. Every qualified elector in the city shall
be entitled to vote for one (1) candidate for each office to be filled. The
candidate receiving more votes than any other candidate for an office shall be
elected. In case of a tie, the election shall be determined fairly by lot from
among the candidates tying, by the county election board in a public meeting.
Sec. 38. Registered qualified electors.
   Only electors residing in this city should have the qualifications
prescribed for electors by the state constitution and law, and who are
registered as required by law, may vote in city elections.
Sec. 39. Political activity of officers and employees.
   No officer or employee of the city except the councilmen, may work actively
for or against, or attempt to influence, the election or defeat of any
candidate for councilman provided that this shall not prohibit the ordinary
exercise of one's right to express his opinions and to vote.
   Any person, who violates this provision, shall be punished, upon conviction
thereof, by a fine not exceeding twenty dollars ($20.00) including costs. Such
violation shall constitute cause for removal from office or employment.
Sec. 40. State constitution and law to govern.
   The provisions of the state constitution and law applicable to city
elections shall govern such elections in this city insofar as they are
applicable and are not superseded by this charter or by ordinance.
   A proclamation of the mayor calling a special election need not (but may)
set forth the names of the precinct officers who are to conduct the election
but shall give the locations of polling places.
ARTICLE VII. RECALL
Sec. 41. Recall authorized.
   The incumbent of any elective city office may be recalled from office by the
electors qualified to vote for the election of a successor to the incumbent, in
the manner provided herein.
Sec. 42. Recall petition.
   To initiate recall proceedings, a written statement in duplicate proposing
the recall of the incumbent of an elective office, shall be made, and sworn to
by twenty (20) or more registered qualified electors of the city, and shall be
filed with the city clerk after the incumbent has held the office at least four
(4) months. The statement shall also contain the reason or reasons for which
the recall is sought, in not more than two hundred (200) words. Within five (5)
days, the city clerk shall mail a copy of such statement by registered,
certified or similar special mail to the officer at his residential address.
Within ten (10) days after the statement is mailed to the officer, the officer
may make and file with the city clerk a written statement in duplicate
justifying his conduct in office, in not more than two hundred (200) words and
the city clerk on request shall deliver one (1) copy to one (1) of the persons
filing the statement proposing the recall.
   The petition for recall shall include a demand that a successor to the
incumbent sought to be recalled be elected, and shall also include before the
space where the signatures are to be written the statement giving the reason or
reasons for recall under the heading "STATEMENT FOR RECALL", and if the officer
has filed a statement as authorized, the statement justifying his conduct in
office under the heading "STATEMENT AGAINST RECALL". The two (2) statements
shall be in letters of the same size. A copy of the petition shall be filed
with the city clerk within one (1) month after recall proceedings are initiated
by the filing of the first statement, and before the petition is circulated.
   A number of registered qualified electors of the city equal at least to
twenty (20) percent of the total number of votes cast for governor in the city
at the last general state election at which a governor was elected must sign
the petition. Each signer shall write after his name his address within the
city, giving street or avenue and number, if any. Not more than one hundred
(100) signatures may appear on a single copy of the petition. One (1) of the
signers of each copy of the petition shall sign an affidavit on the copy
stating that each signer signed the petition in his presence, that each
signature on the petition is genuine, and that he believes each signer to be a
registered qualified elector of the city.
   The circulated petition shall be filed with the city clerk not later than
one (1) month after the filing of a copy as provided above. Within one (1)
month after date of filing of the circulated petition, the city clerk shall
examine it and ascertain whether it has been prepared and circulated as
required, and whether the required number of registered qualified electors of
the city have signed it. He shall then attach his certificate to the petition.
If his certificate states that the petition has not been prepared and
circulated as required and /or lacks a sufficient number of signatures, the
petition shall have no effect and recall proceedings may not again be initiated
against the same person within six (6) months after the date of the
certificate. But, if the city clerk's certificate states that the petition has
been prepared and circulated as required and has a sufficient number of
signatures, he shall submit the petition and certificate to the council at its
next meeting.
Sec. 43. Recall election. Council to order.
   The council by resolution or ordinance passed within ten (10) days after
receiving the petition and certificate of the city clerk, shall order and fix
the date for a recall election, which shall be held not less than forty (40
days nor more than fifty (50) days, after passage of the resolution or
ordinance. The city clerk shall cause the resolution or ordinance ordering the
election to be published in full in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city within ten (10) days after its passage and such publication shall be
sufficient notice of the election.
   The qualified electors of the city may vote in a recall election on the
election of successors to more than one incumbent of an elective office.
Sec. 44. Recall election: How held.
   The recall election shall be an election to fill the office held by the
incumbent sought to be recalled. Any qualified person, including the incumbent,
may file as a candidate for the office and candidates must file at least
fifteen (15) days before the recall election. There shall be no primary before
the recall election, and the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes
in the recall election shall be elected. If a candidate other than the
incumbent is elected, the incumbent shall be recalled from office effective as
of the time when the result of the election is certified. The said successful
candidate must qualify within one (1) month thereafter and if he fails to do
so, the office shall be vacant, and the council shall fill the vacancy. A
candidate thus elected and qualifying shall serve for the unexpired term. If
the incumbent is a candidate and receives the greatest number of votes, he
shall continue in office without interruption and recall proceedings may not
again be initiated against him within one (1) year after the election.
   The provisions of this charter relating to city elections shall also govern
recall elections insofar as they are applicable and are not superseded by the
provisions of this article.
Sec. 45. Person recalled or resigning.
   No person who has been recalled from an office, or who has resigned from
such office while recall proceedings were pending against him, may hold any
office or position of employment in the city government within one (1) year
after his recall or resignation.
ARTICLE VIII. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 46. Feminine gender.
   When the masculine gender is used in this charter, it shall also mean the
feminine unless the masculine alone is clearly indicated.
Sec. 47. Initiative and referendum.
   The powers of the initiative and referendum are reserved to the people of
the city. In the exercise of these powers, the requirements of the state
constitution and law shall be observed.
Sec. 48. Merit system.
   Appointments and promotions in the service of the city shall be made solely
on the basis of merit and fitness and layoffs, suspensions, demotions, and
removals shall be made solely for the good of the service. Better to achieve
these ends, the council may establish a merit system and provide for its proper
organization and functioning and for proper personnel administration.
Sec. 49. Qualifications of officers and employees.
   Officers and employees of the city shall have qualifications prescribed by
this charter and such additional qualifications as the council may prescribe
but the council shall not prescribe additional qualifications for councilmen.
Sec. 50. Nepotism, holding more than one office or position.
   Neither the city manager, the council nor any other authority of the city
government, may appoint or elect any person related to any councilman, to the
city manager, or to himself, or in the case of a plural authority, to one (1)
of its members, by affinity or consanguinity within the third degree, to any
office or position of profit in the city government but this shall not prohibit
an officer or employee so related from continuing in the service of the city.
   Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by ordinance, the same
person may hold more than one (1) office or position in the city government.
The city manager may hold more than one (1) such office or position, through
appointment by himself, by the council or by other city authority having power
to fill the particular office or position, subject to any regulations which the
council may make by ordinance, but he may not receive compensation for service
in such other offices and positions. Also, the council by ordinance may provide
that the city manager shall hold ex officio designated administrative offices
subordinate to the city manager as well as other designated compatible city
offices.
Sec. 51. Official bonds.
   The city manager, the city clerk, the city treasurer and such other officers
and employees as the council may designate, before entering upon their duties,
shall provide bonds for the faithful performance of their respective duties,
payable to the city, in such form and in such amounts as the council may
prescribe, with a surety company authorized to operate within the state. The
city shall pay the premiums on such bonds.
Sec. 52. Oath or affirmation of office.
   Every officer of the city, before entering upon the duties of his office,
shall take and subscribe to the oath or affirmation of office prescribed by the
state constitution. The oath or affirmation shall be filed and kept in the city
clerk's office.
Sec. 53. Who may administer oaths and affirmations.
   All officers authorized by federal or state law, the mayor, the city
manager, the city clerk, the heads of all other administrative departments, the
municipal judge and such other officers as the council may authorize, may
administer oaths and affirmations.
Sec. 54. Removal, etc., of officers and employees.
   Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the power to lay off, suspend,
demote and remove accompanies the power to appoint or elect and the city
manager or other appointing or electing authority at any time may lay off,
suspend, demote or remove any officer or employee to whom he or the other
appointing or electing authority respectively may appoint or elect a successor.
Sec. 55. Acting officers and employees.
   The appointing or electing authority who may appoint or elect the successor
of an officer or employee, may appoint or elect a person to act during the
temporary absence, disability or suspension of such officer or employee, or, in
case of a vacancy, until a successor is appointed or elected and qualifies,
unless the council ordains that a particular superior or subordinate of such
officer or employee shall act. The council by ordinance may provide for a
deputy to act in such cases.
Sec. 56. Officers to continue until successors are elected or appointed and
qualify.
   Every officer who is elected or appointed for a term ending at a definite
time, shall continue to serve thereafter until his successor is elected or
appointed and qualifies unless his services are sooner terminated by
resignation, removal, disqualification, abolition of the office or other legal
manner.
Sec. 57. Publicity of records.
   All records and accounts of every office, department, or agency of the city
government, except records and documents the disclosure of which would tend to
defeat the lawful purpose which they are intended to accomplish, shall be open
to public inspection.
Sec. 58. Separability clause.
   If a court of competent jurisdiction should hold any section or part of a
section of this charter invalid, such holding shall not affect the remainder of
this charter nor the context in which such section or part of a section so held
invalid may appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part of a
section may be inseparable connected in meaning and effect with that section or
part of a section.
   If a court of competent jurisdiction holds a part of this charter Invalid or
if a change in the state constitution or law renders a part of this charter
invalid or inapplicable, the council by ordinance may take such appropriate
action as will enable the city government to function properly.
Sec. 59. Legal notice or process.
   Every legal notice or process to be served upon the city shall be served
upon the city manager, or in his absence upon the acting city manager if any,
or in the absence of both, then upon the mayor.
ARTICLE IX. AMENDMENT
Sec. 60. Amendment: Proposal, ratification, approval.
   This charter may be amended by proposals therefore submitted by the council,
or by the mayor upon initiative petition of the people as provided by the state
constitution, at a general or special election, ratified by a majority of the
qualified electors voting thereon, and approved by the governor as provided by
the state constitution. If more than one (1) amendment are proposed, all of
them except those which are so interrelated that they should be ratified or
rejected together, shall be submitted in such a manner that the electors may
vote on them separately. A proposition to amend this charter may be either in
the form of a proposed amendment to a part or parts of the charter or of a
proposed new charter.
Sec. 61. Amendment: Board of freeholders.
    The Council by ordinance may provide for the election of a board of
freeholders to prepare and propose amendments to this charter. When an
amendment proposed by a board of freeholders shall have been submitted by the
council at a general or special election, ratified by a majority of the
qualified electors voting thereon, and approved by the governor as provided by
the state constitution, it shall go into effect.
ARTICLE X. SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT
Sec. 62. When this charter goes into effect.
   If a majority of the qualified electors of the town voting on the question
vote to ratify this charter, the charter shall go into effect immediately upon
approval by the governor as provided by the state constitution and law and the
government of the city provided by this charter shall succeed and replace the
government of the Town of The Village.
Sec. 63. Ordinances continued.
   All ordinances, insofar as they are not inconsistent with this charter,
shall continue in effect until they are repealed or until they expire by their
own limitations.
Sec. 64. Officers and employees continued, etc.
   When this charter goes into effect, the incumbents of the offices of
trustees of the town shall become the first councilmen of the city, and the
incumbent of the office of president of the board of trustees of the town shall
become mayor of the city and each of said officers shall serve until 7:30 p.m.
on the day when his term as trustee would have expired if this charter had not
been adopted.
   Furthermore, if this charter goes into effect before 7:30 p.m. on the first
Monday in May 1959, the persons elected trustees of the town at the election on
April 7, 1959, shall become councilmen with two-year terms beginning at 7:30
p.m. on the first Monday in May 1959, replacing those serving prior to that
time.
   Prior to 7:30 p.m. on the first Monday in May 1960, and notwithstanding any
other provisions of this charter, the council shall consist of only three (3)
members, special meetings may be called by the mayor or any two (2) councilmen,
and emergency ordinances may be passed only by unanimous vote of all members of
the council.
   The incumbents of all appointive offices and positions of the town
government, including the town marshal who shall become chief of police, shall
continue in the offices and employments which they respectively hold, after
this charter goes into effect. All officers and employees referred to in this
paragraph shall serve until their services are terminated in accordance with
the provisions of this charter relating to the creation, change and abolition
of offices, and removal of officers and employees.
Sec. 65. Pending actions and proceedings.
   The adoption of this charter shall not abate or otherwise affect any action
or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending when it takes effect, brought by or
against the municipality or any office, department, agency, or officer thereof.
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1-1. How Code designated and cited.
   The ordinances embraced in this, and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of The
Village," and may be so cited.
Charter reference-Ordinance codification, 19.
State law reference-Ordinance codification, 11 O.S. 14-108.
Sec. 1-2. Titles of chapters, articles, divisions, and sections.
   All titles of chapters, articles, divisions, and all catch lines of sections
are unofficial and intended only for convenience in arrangement and as mere
catchwords to indicate the contents of the chapters, articles, divisions, and
sections. They shall not be deemed to be part of the contents of the chapters,
articles, divisions, and sections, nor shall the titles and catch lines alter
the otherwise intended meaning of any provision of this Code.
Sec. 1-3. History notes.
   The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are
not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the
source of matter contained in the section.
Sec. 1-4. Provisions as continuation of existing ordinances.
   The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
ordinance provisions previously adopted by the city relating to the same
subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof
and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-5. Definitions and rules of construction.
   In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances and resolutions
passed by the city council, the following rules shall be observed, unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city
council:
   Charter. The words "charter" or "city charter" shall mean the Charter of the
City of The Village.
   City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of The Village
in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma.
   Code. Reference to "this Code" or "the Code" shall mean the Code of
Ordinances, City of The Village as designated in section 1-1 of this chapter.
   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day is
a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, that day shall not be counted in the
computation.
   Council, city council. The words "council" or "city council" shall mean the
council of the city.
   County. The term "county," "the county" or "this county" shall mean Oklahoma
County, Oklahoma.
   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of
a department or some other city officer or employee to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize such department head, officer, or
employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act, or perform the duty, unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well as to
males.
   Health department. Whenever in this Code the terms "health department",
"county health department", or "city health department" are used, such terms
shall be deemed to refer to the city-county health department authorized by
sections 1-210 through 1-218 of the Oklahoma Public Health Code.
State law reference-Oklahoma Public Health Code, 63 O.S. 1-101 et seq.
   Health officer. Whenever in this Code the terms "health officer" or
"director of the department of health" are used, such terms shall be deemed to
refer to the director of the city-county health department authorized by
sections 1-210 through 1-218 of the Oklahoma Public Health Code and such
director's designees.
State law reference-Oklahoma Public Health Code, 63 O.S. 1-101 et seq.
   Heretofore and hereafter. Whenever the word heretofore appears in any
ordinance, it shall be construed to mean any time before the day when that
ordinance shall take effect whenever the word hereafter appears, it shall be
construed to mean the time after the ordinance shall take effect.
   Highway. The term "highway" shall include any street, alley, highway,
avenue, or public place or square, bridge, viaduct, tunnel, underpass,
overpass, or causeway in the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
   Joint authority. Words purporting to give authority to three (3) or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other person unless it is otherwise declared.
   May. The word "may" is permissive.
   Mayor. The word "mayor" shall mean the mayor of the city.
   Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
   Must. The word "must" is mandatory.
   Nontechnical and technical words. All words and phrases shall be construed
and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language.
Technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar or
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
peculiar or appropriate meaning.
   Number. Any word importing singular number shall include the plural and any
word importing the plural number shall include the singular.
   Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all
cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in
such cases, the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words
"affirm" and "affirmed."
   Officer, departments, etc. Except as otherwise specifically provided,
whenever any officer, department, board, commission, or other agency is
referred to by title alone, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the City of The Village, Oklahoma."
   Or, and "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the sense
requires it.
   Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any
part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant,
or tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations,
corporations, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and corporate as well as
to individuals. Whenever used with respect to any penalty, the word "person,"
as applied to partnerships or associations, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species
of property, except real property as herein defined.
   Preceding following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next
before and next after, respectively.
   Property. The word "property" shall include personal, real, and mixed
property.
   Public grounds or public places. The terms "public grounds" or "public
places" shall be construed to mean any park or open place adjacent thereto, any
lake or stream, any and every public ground, public square, public park, street
or sidewalk, or other public place within the city.
   Real property. The term real property shall include land together with all
things attached to the land so as to become a part thereof and all rights
thereto and interest therein.
   Shall. The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
   Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of the street between
the curb, or the lateral line of the roadway, and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" shall
include a mark when a person cannot write.
   State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the
State of Oklahoma.
   Statutory references. Reference to the statutes of the State of Oklahoma
means the statutes as they now are or as they may be amended to be, and a
reference to the 1981 statutes also means the comparable provision when
included in future codifications or supplementations of the statutes.
   Street. The term "street" shall include any highway, alley, street, avenue,
or public place, square, bridge, viaduct, underpass, overpass, tunnel, or
causeway in the city dedicated or devoted to public use.
   Tenant, occupant. The words "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building
or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with
others.
   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense shall include the future as
well as the past and present unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed
to include any representations of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1976, 7-1-1--7-1-4)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 25 O.S. 1 et seq.
Sec. 1-6. Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed
to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
   (1)   Any appropriation or budget ordinance;
   (2)   Any ordinance authorizing or relating to the issuance or redemption of
bonds;
   (3)   Any ordinance approving or authorizing specific contracts;
   (4)   Any ordinance authorizing a specific sale, lease, or purchase of
property;
   (5)   Any ordinance levying or assessing taxes not inconsistent with this
Code;
   (6)   Any ordinance granting rights-of-way, franchise, or easements;
   (7)   Any ordinance annexing territory to, or excluding territory from, the
city;
   (8)   Any ordinance calling specific elections or providing for special
elections;
   (9)   Any ordinance making special assessments for local improvements;
   (10)    Any ordinance creating or relating to specific sewer and paving
districts or other specific improvement districts;
   (11)   Any ordinance establishing the grades of specific streets and other
public ways;
   (12)   Any ordinance naming or changing the names of specific streets and
other public ways;
   (13)   Any ordinance creating, dedicating, vacating, or closing specific
streets, alleys, or other public ways;
   (14)   Any ordinance amending the zoning map or approving or disapproving a
subdivision plat;
   (15)   Any ordinance rezoning property;
   (16)   Any ordinance dealing with the compensation, retirement, pensions or
other benefits of city officers and employees;
   (17)   Any ordinance which is temporary although general in effect;
   (18)   Any ordinance which is special although permanent in effect;
   (19)   Any ordinance the purpose of which has been accomplished.
Sec. 1-7. Ordinances in effect in outlying real property of city.
   All ordinances of the city now in effect within the city are hereby extended
to all real property belonging to, or under the control of, the city outside
the corporate limits of the city, and shall be in full effect therein, insofar
as they are applicable. All ordinances of the city, which shall go into effect
in the future, shall also apply to, and be in full effect within the boundaries
of all said outlying real property, insofar as they may be applicable. Any
words in any ordinance indicating that the effect of an ordinance provision is
limited to the corporate limits of the city shall be deemed to mean and include
also the said outlying real property belonging to, or under the control of, the
city, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(Code 1976, 7-2-1)
Sec. 1-8. Effect of repeal or ordinances revival.
   (a)   Neither the adoption of this Code nor the repeal hereby of any
ordinance of this city shall in any manner affect the prosecution for violation
of ordinances, which violations were committed prior to the effective date
hereof, nor be construed as a waiver of any license or penalty at the effective
date due and unpaid under such ordinance, nor be construed as affecting any of
the provisions of such ordinance relating to the collection of any such license
or penalty or the penal provisions applicable to any violation thereof, nor to
affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof, required to be
posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance, and all rights and
obligations thereof appertaining shall continue in full force and effect.
   (b)   Whenever any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or
provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to
revive such former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be therein
so expressly provided.
Sec. 1-9. Penalties for violations.
   (a)   Whenever in this Code or in any other ordinance of the city, or in any
rule, regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the city
under authority duly vested in him, or it, any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or the doing of any act
is required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, or an
offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefore, the
violation of any such provisions of this Code or any other ordinance of the
city or such rule, regulation or order shall be punished as indicated below:
   (1)   If the violation is a Class A offense, it shall be punishable by a
fine not exceeding Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($750.00), or by
imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment Title 11 O.S. Sec 14-111.C
   (2)   If the violation is a Class B offense, it shall be punishable by a
fine not exceeding Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00).
   (b)   If any act or omission is declared a Class A or Class B offense, it
shall be punishable as provided in subsection (a). In the absence of any
penalty or classification being specified, an offense shall be a Class B
offense, except as provided in subsection (c) below.
   (c)   The provisions of subsections (a) and (b) notwithstanding, no penalty,
including fines and costs, shall be greater than that established by state
statute for the same offense. Exceptions to the provisions of subsections (a)
and (b) above include, but are not limited, to the following offenses:
   1.   The maximum fine for improper transportation of a firearm shall be
$70.00.
   2.   The maximum fine pertaining to license and registration of vehicles
shall not exceed $500.00; provided however the maximum fine for "no current
licensing" of a vehicle shall not exceed $100.00.
   3.   The maximum fine for traffic related offenses, including parking and
speeding, shall not exceed $200.00. (Class B Offense)
   4.   The maximum fine for alcohol or drug-related traffic offenses shall not
exceed $800.00.
   5.   The maximum fine for public intoxication shall not exceed $100.00.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided, every day any violation of this Code or
any other ordinance of the city or any rule, regulation or order shall
continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1976, § 7-7-1 Ord. No. 549, §1, 8-17-99; Ord. No, 644, §1, 10-06-2009)
Cross reference--Orders of no imprisonment or maximum fine, 14-23.
State law reference--Penalties for ordinance violations, 11 O.S.14-111.et seq.
Sec. 1-10. Amendments to Code.
   (a)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances,
City of The Village, is hereby amended to read as follows:" The new provisions
shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (b)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to
be added, the following language shall be used: "That the Code of Ordinances,
City of The Village, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be
numbered_______, which said section reads as follows:" The new section shall
then be set out in full as desired.
Charter reference--Adoption of ordinance, 16-19.
Cross reference--Amendments to air pollution ordinances, 3-3.
Sec. 1-11. Supplementation of Code.
   (a)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the council. A
supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances passed by the city council or adopted by initiative and
referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in the Code and shall include all amendments to the Charter during the
period. The pages of the supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (b)   In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code,
which have been repealed, shall be excluded from the Code by the omission
thereof from reprinted pages.
   (c)   When preparing a supplement of this Code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
   (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions,
   (2)   Provide appropriate catch lines, headings and titles for sections and
other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catch lines, headings, and titles,
   (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers,
   (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or
to "sections ____ to ______, (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the Codes), and
   (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the original
meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code but in no case, shall the
codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material
included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-12. Severability of parts of Code and ordinances.
   If a court of competent jurisdiction should hold one or more sections or a
part of a section of this Code or of an ordinance passed hereafter invalid,
such holding shall not affect the remainder of the Code or ordinance nor the
context in which such section, sections or part of a section so held invalid
may appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part of a section
may be inseparably connected in meaning and effect with the section, sections
or part of a section so held invalid.
(Code 1976, 7-3-1)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
Art. I.      In General, Sec. 2-1--2-15
Art. II.      Retirement System, Sec. 2-16--2-30
Art. III.      Finance and Fiscal Procedures, Sec. 2-31--2-47
      
Div. 1. Generally, Sec. 2-31--2-40
      
Div. 2. Trust and Agency Fund, Sec. 2-41--2-47
      
Div. 3. Purchasing and Approval of Invoices, Sec. 2-60--2-99
      
Div. 4. Deposits and Investments, Sec. 2-100--2-124
      
Div. 5. Budgeting, Sec. 2-125--2-149
      
Div. 6. Facsimile Signatures, Sec. 2-150--2-174.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 2-1. Wards.
New lines for the five (5) wards in the city are hereby established as follows:
WARD 1
Beginning at a point in the middle of the intersection of Britton Road and
Waverly Avenue; thence south along the middle of Waverly Avenue to a point
immediately east of the rear lot lines of the lots facing Andover Court to the
north; thence west along the rear lot lines of said lots facing Andover Court
to the middle of Nichols Road; thence southwesterly down the middle of Nichols
Road to a point directly east of the rear lot lines of the lots facing Brighton
Avenue to the north; thence west along the rear lot lines of the said lots
facing Brighton Avenue to the middle of Pennsylvania Avenue; thence south down
the middle of Pennsylvania Avenue to a point directly east of the rear lot
lines of the lots facing Westchester Drive to the north; thence west along the
rear lot lines of the said lots facing Westchester Drive to a point at the
middle of Greystone Avenue; thence south down the middle of Greystone Avenue to
a point directly east of the rear lot lines of the lots facing Westchester
Drive to the north; thence west along the said rear lot lines of the lots
facing Westchester Drive to a point at the middle of Guilford Lane; thence
north down the middle of Guilford Lane to a point directly west of the rear lot
lines of the lots facing Westchester Drive to the south to a point at the
middle of Wellington Avenue and Andover Court; thence east down the middle of
Andover Court to a point in the middle of the intersection of Andover Court and
Village Drive; thence northeasterly down the middle of Village Drive to a point
in the middle of the intersection of Village Drive and Carlisle Road; thence
east down the middle of Carlisle Road to a point in the middle the intersection
of Carlisle Road and Greystone Avenue; thence north down the middle of
Greystone Avenue to a point in the middle of the intersection of Greystone
Avenue and Churchill Way; thence east down the middle of Churchill Way to the
middle of the intersection of Churchill Way and Sheffield Road;
thence southeasterly down the middle of Sheffield Road to the center of
Pennsylvania Avenue; thence north down the middle of Pennsylvania Avenue to the
center of Britton Road; thence east down the center of Britton Road to the
intersection of and Waverly Avenue, the point or place of beginning.
WARD 2
Beginning at a point in the middle of the intersection of Britton Road and
Oxford Way; thence southeasterly down the middle of Oxford Way to the middle of
the intersection of Oxford Way and Hasley Drive; thence west down the middle of
Hasley Drive to a point in the middle of the intersection of Hasley Drive and
Stratford Drive; thence southwesterly down the middle of Stratford Drive to a
point in the middle of the intersection of Stratford Drive and Churchill Way;
thence west down the middle of Churchill Way to a point in the middle of the
intersection of Churchill Way and Greystone Avenue; thence south down the
middle of Greystone Avenue to a point in the middle of the intersection of
Greystone Avenue and Carlisle Road; thence west down the middle of Carlisle
Road to the middle of the intersection of Carlisle Road and Village Drive;
thence southwesterly down the middle of Village Drive to the intersection of
Village Drive and Andover Court; thence west down the middle of Andover Court
to the intersection of Andover Court and Wellington Avenue; thence north down
the middle of Wellington Avenue to the middle of the intersection of Wellington
Avenue and Britton Road; thence west down the middle of Britton Road to a point
directly south of the rear lot lines of the lots facing Lakeshore Drive; thence
in a northwesterly direction along the rear or west lot lines of the lots
immediately abutting the west boundary of the City of The Village to a point in
the middle of Hefner Road; thence east down the middle of Hefner Road to a
point in the middle of the intersection of Hefner Road and Sunset Boulevard;
thence south down the middle of Sunset Boulevard to the middle of the
intersection of Sunset Boulevard and Center Street; thence west down the middle
of Center Street to the intersection of Center Street and Lakeside Drive;
thence south approximately one-half mile down the middle of Lakeside Drive;
thence east down the middle of Lakeside Drive to a point in the middle of the
intersection of Lakeside Drive and North May Avenue; thence south down the
middle of North May Avenue to the middle of the intersection or Carlton Way and
North May Avenue; thence east and southeasterly to the middle of the
intersection of Carlton Way and Sunnymeade Place; thence south down the middle
of Sunnymeade Place to the middle of the intersection of Sunnymeade Place and
Britton Road; thence east down the middle of Britton Road to the middle of the
intersection of Britton Road and Oxford Way, the point or place of beginning.
WARD 3
Beginning at the middle of the intersection of Britton Road and Oxford Way;
thence southeasterly down the middle of Oxford Way to a point in the middle of
the intersection of Oxford Way and Hasley Drive; thence west down the middle of
Hasley Drive to the middle of the intersection of Hasley Drive and Stratford
Drive; thence southwesterly down the middle of Stratford Drive to the middle of
the intersection of Stratford Drive and Churchill Way; thence east down the
middle of Churchill Way to the middle of the intersection of Churchill Way and
Sheffield Road; thence southeasterly down the middle of Sheffield Road to the
middle of the intersection of Sheffield Road and Pennsylvania Avenue; thence
north down the middle of Pennsylvania Avenue to the middle of the intersection
of Britton Road and Pennsylvania Avenue; thence east down the middle of Britton
Road to the middle of the intersection of Britton Road and Waverly Avenue;
thence north down the east boundary line of the City of The Village, which is
the east Boundary of Waverly Avenue, to the middle of Hefner Road; thence west
down the middle of Hefner Road to a point at the middle of the intersection of
Hefner Road and Pennsylvania Avenue; thence south down the middle of
Pennsylvania Avenue to a point directly east of the north lot line in the area
designated as Bumpass Park; thence west down said north lot line of the area
designated as Park and continuing west down the center of Huntleigh Drive to a
point in the middle of Village Drive; thence south down the middle of Village
Drive to the middle of the intersection of Barclay Road and Village Drive;
thence east down the middle of Barclay Road to the middle of the intersection
of Barclay Road and Pennsylvania Avenue; thence south down the middle of
Pennsylvania Avenue to the middle of the intersection of Pennsylvania Avenue
and Britton Road; thence west down the middle of Britton road to the middle of
the intersection of Britton Road and Oxford Way, the point or place of
beginning.
WARD 4
Beginning at a point in the middle of the intersection of Orlando Road and
North May Avenue; thence south down the middle of May Avenue to a point in the
middle of the intersection of North May Avenue and Lakeside Drive; thence west
approximately one-half mile down the middle of Lakeside Drive; thence north
down the middle of Lakeside Drive to a point in the middle of the intersection
of Lakeside Drive and Center Street; thence east down the middle of Center
Street to a point in the middle of the intersection of Center Street and Sunset
Boulevard; thence north down the middle of Sunset Boulevard to the middle of
the intersection of Sunset Boulevard and Hefner Road; thence east down the
middle of Hefner Road to the intersection of Pennsylvania Avenue and Hefner
Road; thence south down the middle of Pennsylvania Avenue to the north boundary
line of the area called Bumpass Park; thence west along the north boundary line
of said park and continuing west and southwesterly down the center of Huntleigh
Drive to a point in the middle of the intersection of Huntleigh Drive and Kings
Way; thence west down the middle of Kings Way to a point in the middle of the
intersection of Kings Way and Ridgeview Drive thence north and northwesterly
down the middle of Ridgeview Drive to a point in the middle of the intersection
of Ridgeview Drive and Sunnymeade Place; thence southwesterly down the middle
of Sunnymeade Place to the middle of the intersection of Sunnymeade Place and
Orlando Road; thence west down the middle of Orlando Road to the middle of the
intersection of Orlando Road and North May Avenue, the point or place of
beginning.
WARD 5
Beginning at a point in the middle of the intersection of North May Avenue and
Orlando Road; thence south down the middle of North May Avenue to the middle of
the intersection of Carlton Way and North May Avenue; thence east and
southeasterly down the middle of Carlton Way to the middle of the intersection
of Carlton Way and Sunnymeade Place; thence south down the middle of Sunnymeade
Place to the middle of Britton Road; thence east down the middle of Britton
Road to the middle of the intersection of Britton Road and Pennsylvania Avenue;
thence north down the middle of Pennsylvania Avenue to the middle of the
intersection of Barclay Road and Pennsylvania Avenue; thence northwesterly down
the middle of Barclay Road to the middle of the intersection of Barclay Road
and Village Drive; thence north down the middle of Village Drive to a point in
the middle of the intersection of Village Drive and Huntleigh Drive; thence
west and southwesterly down Huntleigh Drive to the intersection of Huntleigh
Drive and Kings Way; thence west down the middle of Kings Way to the middle of
the intersection of Ridgeview Drive and Kings Way; thence northwesterly down
the middle of Ridgeview Drive to a point in the middle of the intersection of
Ridgeview Drive and Sunnymeade Place; thence south down the middle of
Sunnymeade Place to the middle of the intersection of Sunnymeade Place and
Orlando Road; thence west down the middle of Orlando Road to the intersection
of Orlando Road and North May Avenue, the point or place of beginning.
Figure 1, Ward Boundary Map, Ordinance 763,
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2859.png]
 
(Ord. No. 228, § 1, 2-15-77; Ord No. 572, § 1, 11-6-01; Ord. No. 668, § 1, 12-
06-2011; Ord. No. 763, § 1, 12-20-2021)
Charter references--Wards, §
4 elections, §
35 et seq.
State law references--Wards, 11 O.S. § 20-101 et seq. municipal elections, 11
O.S. § 16-101 et seq.
Sec. 2-2. Absentee ballots.
   Pursuant to Title 26, section 14-101, of the Oklahoma Statutes, absentee
ballots are hereby authorized for all municipal elections in the city.
(Ord. No. 379, § 1, 4-7-87)
Editor's note--Ord. No. 379, § 1, adopted April 7, 1987, adding provisions
designated as § 7-8-1 to the 1976 Code, has been included as § 2-2 herein at
the discretion of the editor.
Charter reference--Elections §
35 et seq.
Sec. 2-3. Methods of filing for elected office.
   (a)   Any person qualified as an elector in his respective Ward may have his
name placed on the ballot as a candidate for Council Member from said Ward by
properly filing and paying a filing fee of fifty ($50.00) dollars at the
Oklahoma County Election Board, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, during the filing
period established by City Charter.
   (b)   Said filing fee shall be in the form of a certified check or a
cashier's check and shall be refunded to the candidate if the candidate is
unopposed in the election or receives at least fifteen (15%) percent of the
votes cast in the election. In all other instances, said filing fee shall be
forfeited.
(Ord. No. 525, 1, 2-6-96)
Charter reference -- Secs
36--
38.
Secs. 2-4--2-15. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. RETIREMENT SYSTEM
Sec. 2-16. System established.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by the laws of the State of Oklahoma,
and for the purpose of encouraging continuity and meritorious service on the
part of City employees and thereby promote public efficiency, there is hereby
authorized, created, established, and approved and adopted, effective as of
February 1, 1996, the funded Pension Plan designated "Employee Retirement
System of The City of The Village, Oklahoma, Defined Contribution Plan,"
(hereinafter called System), an executed counterpart of which is marked Exhibit
"A" and attached hereto as part hereof.
(Ord. No. 391, §1, 8-4-87 Ord. No. 476, §1, 8-4-92 Ord. No. 523, §1, 11-21-95)
Sec. 2-17. Administration.
   For the purpose of administration of the System, there is hereby established
a Board of Trustees, which shall be the members of the Council of the City of
The Village, Oklahoma, as now existing or as from time to time duly elected or
appointed and constituted. The powers and duties of the Board of Trustees shall
be as set forth in the System instrument attached hereto as Exhibit "A".
(Ord. No. 391, §1, 8-4-87 Ord. No. 476, §1, 8-4-92 Ord. No. 523, §1, 11-21-95)
Sec. 2-18. Fund.
   A fund is hereby provided for the exclusive use and benefit of the persons
entitled to benefits under the System. All contributions to such fund shall be
paid over to and received in trust for such purpose by the City Treasurer, who
shall be the Treasurer of the System. The City Treasurer shall hold such
contributions in the form received, and from time to time pay over and transfer
the same to the City's Authorized Agent, as duly authorized and directed by the
Board of Trustees. The Fund shall be non-fiscal and shall not be considered in
computing any levy when the annual estimate is made to the County Excise Board.
(Ord. No. 391, §1, 8-4-87 Ord. No. 476, §1, 8-4-92 Ord. No. 523, §1, 11-21-95)
Sec. 2-19. Appropriations.
   (a)   The City of The Village, Oklahoma, is hereby authorized to incur the
necessary expenses for the establishment, operation, and administration of the
System, and to appropriate and pay the same. In addition, the City of The
Village, Oklahoma, is hereby authorized to appropriate annually such amounts as
are required in addition to employee contributions to maintain the System and
the Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Defined Contribution Plan.
   (b)   Any appropriation so made to maintain the System and Fund shall be for
deferred wages or salaries, and for the payment of necessary expenses of
operation and administration and shall be paid to the City's Authorized Agent
as authorized by the Board of Trustees, through the City Treasurer.
(Ord. No. 391, §1, 8-4-87 Ord. No. 476, §1, 8-4-92 Ord. No. 523, §1, 11-21-95)
Sec. 2-20. Execution.
   The Mayor and City Clerk are each hereby authorized and directed to execute
(in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original) the System
instrument, and to do all other acts and things necessary, advisable, and
proper to put said System and related trust into full force and effect, and to
make such changes therein as may be necessary to qualify the same under Section
401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of the United States. The
counterpart attached hereto as Exhibit "A", which has been duly executed as
aforesaid simultaneously with the passage of this Ordinance and made a part
hereof, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
   The Council is hereby authorized and directed to proceed immediately on
behalf of the City of The Village, Oklahoma, to pool and combine the Fund with
similar funds for purposes of pooled management and investment.
(Ord. No. 391, §1, 8-4-87 Ord. No. 476, §1, 8-4-92 Ord. No. 523, §1, 11-21-95)
Sec. 2-21. Longevity Plan and Trust Adopted.
   (a)   The Employee Retirement System of the City of The Village is amended
as reflected in Exhibit "B", which is incorporated herein and adopted by
reference. Exhibit "B" shall be known as the City of The Village Longevity Plan
and Trust.
   (b)   The Retirement System of the City of The Village, Oklahoma, except as
modified herein, shall remain in full force and effect according to its
original terms and conditions.
   (c)   The City Clerk and Mayor are hereby authorized and directed to execute
the amended Retirement System documents and to do all the other acts necessary
to put said amendment into effect. The executed document attached hereto as
Exhibit "B" is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
(Ord. No. 482, §1-3, 12-15-92 Ord. No. 523, §1, 11-21-95)
Secs. 2-22--2-30. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. FINANCE AND FISCAL PROCEDURES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Secs. 2-31--2-40. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. TRUST AND AGENCY FUND
Sec. 2-41. Policy.
   The council of the City of The Village hereby deems it in the best interest
of the city to stabilize worker's compensation premiums by establishing a trust
and agency fund for the purpose of reserving funds for future payments of
worker's compensation claims pursuant to an agreement dated July 5, 1988,
between the city and the Oklahoma Municipal Assurance Group. Said agreement is
made part of this division (see Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 408).
(Ord. No. 408, § 1, 7-5-88)
Sec. 2-42. Definitions.
   As used in this division the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
   Group: The Oklahoma Municipal Assurance Group.
   Plan: The Oklahoma Municipal Assurance Group Worker's Compensation Plan.
   Trust and agency fund: The City of The Village-Oklahoma Municipal Assurance
Group Worker's Compensation Plan Trust and Agency Fund.
(Ord. No. 408, § 2, 7-5-88)
Sec. 2-43. Trust and agency fund created disposition of monies.
   (a)   There is hereby created a trust and agency fund for the purpose of
reserving funds for future payment of worker's compensation claims pursuant to
an agreement dated July 5, 1988, with the Oklahoma Municipal Assurance Group.
Said trust and agency fund shall be designated "The City of The Village-
Oklahoma Municipal Assurance Group Worker's Compensation Plan Trust and Agency
Fund."
   (b)   The city treasurer shall transfer into the trust and agency fund
monies equal to the amount so designated and invoiced by the group and approved
by the city council. Said monies are to be held in trust for future payments of
worker's compensation claims as required by the group or until released under
the terms of section 2-46 herein.
   (c)   In the event the city is unable to transfer the said amount invoiced
into the trust and agency fund upon approval by the council, then the city
treasurer shall take appropriate steps to make periodic payments into the trust
and agency fund in order that the amount invoiced is available for payment to
the group by the next June thirtieth.
(Ord. No. 408, § 3, 7-5-88)
*Charter references--Department of finance, fiscal affairs, Art. IV official
bonds, §
51.
Cross references--Appropriation or budget ordinances saved from repeal, §
1-6(1) ordinances relating to bond issuance or redemption saved from repeal, §
1-6(2) ordinances authorizing specific contracts saved from repeal, § 1-6(3)
ordinances authorizing specific sale, lease or purchase of property saved from
repeal, § 1-6(4) taxation,
Ch. 22.
Editor's note--Ordinance No. 408, adopted July 5, 1988, did not expressly amend
the Code hence, codification of Sec. 1-7 as Art. III, Div. 2, Sec. 2-41--2-47,
was at the editor's discretion.
Sec. 2-44. Earned interest transfer.
   The city treasurer may transfer any interest earned from the trust and
agency fund into the general fund or other appropriate fund as designated by
the city council.
(Ord. No. 408, § 4, 7-5-88)
Sec. 2-45. Worker's compensation claims.
   (a)   Only claims made by the group pursuant to the agreement dated July 5,
1988, between the group and the city shall be paid from the trust and agency
fund with the exception of earned interest transfers as described in section 2-
44 herein.
   (b)   Upon presentation of a claim by the group for any or all amounts in
the trust and agency fund, the city treasurer, or designee shall make payment
forthwith to the group.
(Ord. No. 408, § 5, 7-5-88)
Sec. 2-46. Release of funds.
   In the event that the city receives written notice of release from the group
that monies reserved in the trust and agency fund are no longer needed, the
city treasurer shall transfer said monies to the general fund or other
appropriate fund as designated by the city council.
(Ord. No. 408, § 6, 7-5-88)
Sec. 2-47. Annual audited financial statement.
   The city shall send to the group the annual audited financial statement of
the trust and agency fund no later than January 1 following the end of each
fiscal year.
(Ord. No. 408, § 7, 7-5-88)
DIVISION 3. PURCHASING
Secs. 2-48--2-59. Reserved.
Sec. 2-60. Appointment of Purchasing Officer/Encumbering Officer.
   (a)   The city manager shall be authorized to appoint a purchasing officer
or officers having authority to make purchases or enter into contracts against
all budget appropriation accounts as authorized by law.
   (b)   The city manager shall be authorized to appoint an encumbering officer
or officers having authority and responsibility to encumber financial
obligations against the unencumbered account balances.
(Ord. 459, Section 1, 8-6-91 Ord. No. 563, §1, 11-21-00)
Sec. 2-61. Issuance of Purchase Orders.
   Each duly appointed purchasing officer shall be authorized to issue purchase
orders for purchases and contracts and to make a commitment in an amount not to
exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) without prior permission or
authorization from the officer charged with keeping the appropriation and
expenditure records. The purchasing officer shall submit a copy of the purchase
order to the encumbrance officer by the end of the following work week or as
soon as practical thereafter. The purchasing officer shall submit a copy of the
purchase order requisition to the Encumbering Officer daily or as soon as
practical thereafter. The Encumbering Officer will issue a purchase order from
the requisition.
   The Encumbering Officer charged with keeping the appropriation and
expenditure records shall, if there is an unencumbered balance in the
appropriation made for that purpose, so certify by signing the purchase order
and by recording the encumbrance against the appropriate appropriation account.
(Ord. 459, Section 1, 8-6-91 Ord. No. 563, §1, 11-21-00; Ord. No. 777, § 1, 10-
14-24) State law reference: 62 O.S. 1981 Section 310.1 as amended.
State law reference: 62 O.S. 1981 Section 310.1 as amended.
Sec. 2-62.
   (a)   A blanket purchase order may be issued for recurring purchases of
goods or services if a maximum authorized amount for all purchases pursuant to
a blanket purchase order is specified in the order. The maximum authorized
amount shall not exceed One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00).
   (b)   Blanket purchase orders shall be prepared, filed, and encumbered in
the manner provided for purchase orders and as authorized by law or regulation,
except no written requisition shall be required for a blanket purchase order.
Prior to payment, the encumbering officer shall verify the blanket purchase
order by signature.
   (c)   After satisfactory delivery of goods or services pursuant to a blanket
purchase order, a vendor's invoice shall be submitted to and approved by the
encumbering officer and forwarded for payment. An itemized list of goods or
services purchased pursuant to the blanket purchase order shall be attached to
the vendor's invoice if said invoice does not contain an itemized list of goods
or services purchased pursuant to the blanket purchase order. Payment of
invoices from vendors pursuant to an approved blanket purchase order may be
authorized by the city clerk without further council approval.
(Ord. 459, Section 1, 8-6-91 Ord. No. 563, §1, 11-21-00)
State law reference. 62 O.S. 1981, Section 310.8 as amended.
Sec. 2-63. Payments without purchase orders.
   The City Clerk may authorize payment of the following taxes and invoices as
they become due without a purchase order or further approval of the city
council:
   1.   Taxes, including, but not limited to, withholding, social security,
Medicare, or unemployment compensation taxes
   2.   Retirement or pension fund payments or contributions which are payable
pursuant to a resolution, ordinance, contract, or other appropriate agreement
which has been approved by the city council
   3.   Payments for insurance or related coverages, including, but not limited
to, accident, health or life, workers' compensation, or any other property,
vehicle, marine, surety, liability, or casualty coverages, which are payable
under a valid contract, policy or other appropriate agreement which has been
approved by the city council.
   4.   Payments to the Postmaster for replenishing the postage meter and
postage for utility billing.
   5.   Payroll claims and deductions.
(Ord. 459, Section 1, 8-6-91).
State law reference. 62 O.S. 1981 Section 304.1 (D) as amended.
Sec. 2-64. Noncollusion Affidavit.
   On every invoice submitted to the city for payment of an architect,
contractor, engineer, or supplier of materials of Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars
($25,000.00) or more, a sworn noncollusion affidavit shall be signed and
attached to the invoice. The content of the affidavit shall be in accordance
with the provisions of 74 O.S. 2001, Section 3109 as amended. (Effective July
1, 2002)
(Ord. 459, Section 1, 8-6-91 Ord. No. 563, §1, 11-21-00)
State law reference. 62 O.S. 2001, Section 310.9 as amended.
Sec. 2-65. Processing and approval of invoices for payment.
   After satisfactory delivery of the merchandise or completion of the
contract, the supplier shall deliver an invoice to the city. Such invoice shall
state the supplier's name and address and must be sufficiently itemized to
clearly describe each item purchased, its unit price, where applicable, the
number or volume of each item purchased its total price, the total of the
purchase and the date of the purchase. The appropriate city officer shall
attach the delivery tickets, freight tickets or other supporting information to
the original invoice and check for the current purchase order number. The city
treasurer, or designee, shall not pay any invoice until the appropriate
purchasing officer has certified that the order is true and correct and is
ready for payment.
(Ord. 459, Section 1, 8-6-91 Ord. No. 563, §1, 11-21-00; Ord. No. 777, § 2, 10-
14-24)
Sec. 2-66. Petty Cash Funds.
   (a)   The city clerk shall be authorized to create a petty cash fund or
funds for use by authorized employees in making small purchases of materials
and supplies that are not practical or efficient to purchase through other
approved purchasing methods. The administration of the petty cash fund or funds
shall be subject to internal controls and procedures as may be required by the
city's independent auditor provided however, that the total combined amount
that may be outstanding in petty cash funds may not at anytime exceed one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
(Ord. No. 563, §1, 11-21-00)
Sec. 2-67. Competitive Bidding.
   (a)   Before the purchase of any supplies, materials, equipment exceeding
two thousand dollars $2,000 in cost or before entering a contract for a public
improvement exceeding three thousand dollars $3,000.00 in cost, the purchasing
agent shall, to the extent that is practical, obtain competitive bids, quotes
or proposals from qualified suppliers, vendors, or contractors.
   (b)   The publication or posting of bid notices, requests for proposals or
requests for quotes shall not be required.
   (c)   Quotes, bids or proposals for supplies, materials or equipment may be
obtained by catalog, regular mail, facsimile, email, Internet or by telephone.
   (d)   A quote, bid, proposal or contract shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder, except when factors such as quality, availability, delivery
time, shipping cost, warranty, discount, serviceability, life cycle cost and
other similar considerations would render the purchase of higher priced
supplies, materials, equipment, or public improvement in the best interest of
the city.
   (e)   A contract for any public improvement falling under the purview of the
Oklahoma Public Competitive Bidding Act of 1974, as amended, shall be
competitively bid in accordance with the provisions of said act.
   (f)   The purchase of supplies, equipment, materials, and public
improvements that are made available to the city pursuant to a valid contract
competitively bid by the State of Oklahoma or by any political subdivision
thereof, or a competitive bid taken by any local governmental consortium or
cooperative shall be deemed to have met the competitive bidding requirements of
this section.
(Ord. No. 563, §1, 11-21-00)
State law reference: Title 61 O.S., §102 et seq. (City Charter Reference:
Section 30)
DIVISION 4. DEPOSITS & INVESTMENTS
Secs. 2-68-2-99 Reserved.
Sec. 2-100. Depositories.
   (a)   The city treasurer shall be authorized to deposit funds of the city in
any financial institution authorized by state law.
Sec. 2-101. Investments.
   (a)   The city treasurer shall be authorized to invest funds of the city in
any instrument authorized by state law, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (1)   Direct obligations of the United States Government, its agencies, or
instrumentalities to the payment of which the full faith and credit of the
Government of the United States is pledged.
   (2)   Collateralized or insured certificates of deposit of banks and credit
unions located in this state, when the certificates of deposit are secured with
acceptable collateral, or fully insured certificates of deposit at banks and
credit unions located out of state.
   (3)   Savings accounts or certificates to the extent that the accounts or
certificates are fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC).
   (4)   Prime banker's acceptances which are eligible for purchase by the
Federal Reserve System, and which do not exceed two hundred and seventy (270)
days' maturity. Purchases of prime commercial paper may not exceed ten (10%)
percent of the surplus funds of the city and not more than one-half of the ten
(10%) percent limit, shall be invested in any one commercial bank.
   (5)   Repurchase agreements that have underlying collateral consisting of
those items specified in Section 2-102 (e) of this Chapter.
State law reference - Title 62, O.S. 2001, § 348.3
Sec. 2-102. Collateral.
   (a)   Certificates of deposit, which are insured, but not otherwise
collateralized, shall be invested in amounts less than $250,000 in order to
protect any accrued interest due to the city provided however, that this
requirement may be waived if accrued interest on the certificate of deposit is
paid monthly.
   (b)   Deposits or investments that are not insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) shall be collateralized at the rate of at least
one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the principal amount invested.
   (c)   Collateral pledged to secure city funds shall be valued at market
value.
   (d)   Financial institutions shall provide each fiscal quarter, written
evidence of the market value of the collateral pledged to the city.
   (e)   The following collateral shall be accepted by the city:
   (1)   United States Treasury Bonds, Notes or Bills or other instrument of
the United States to which the full faith and credit of the United States is
pledged to the payment thereof.
   (2)   State of Oklahoma Bonds, Notes, or Certificates payable to the State
Treasurer and issued by an agency of the State of Oklahoma pursuant to an act
of the Legislature and only if the full faith and credit of the State is
pledged to the payment thereof.
(Ord. No. 363 §2, 11-21-00) State Law reference 62 O.S. 2001, §348.1 et seq.
DIVISION 5. BUDGETING
Secs. 2-103--2-124 Reserved.
Sec. 2-125. Municipal Budget Act.
   The Municipal Budget Act as set forth by Title 11, O.S. Section 17-201--17-
216, as amended, is hereby adopted by the City of The Village to govern its
budget procedures. The provisions of said act shall take precedence over any
other state laws applicable to municipal budgets, except as may be provided
otherwise by said act, and shall supersede any conflicting laws.
(Ord. No. 563, §3, 11-21-00)
Sec. 2-126. Account Transfers.
   (a)   The city manager shall be authorized to transfer any unexpended and
unencumbered appropriation or any portion thereof from one account to another
within the same department or from one department to another within the same
fund, except that no appropriation for debt service or other appropriation
required by law or ordinance may be reduced below the minimums required and
provided further that no encumbrance or expenditure may be authorized or made
by any officer or employee which exceeds the available appropriation for each
department within a fund as provided for in Title 11 O.S. Section 17-215
Subsection D.
   (b)   Account transfers authorized by the city manager pursuant to Section
(a) above shall be reported to the Council as soon as practical thereafter.
(Ord. No. 563, §3, 11-21-00)
DIVISION 6. FACSIMILE SIGNATURES
Secs 2-127--2-149 Reserved.
Sec. 2-150. Facsimile Signatures Authorized.
   (a)   The Mayor, City Clerk and City Treasurer, after filing with the
Secretary of State his or her manual signature certified by him or her under
oath, may execute or cause to be executed with a facsimile signature, in lieu
of his or her manual signature, any public security or certificate thereof or
thereto.
   (b)   Upon compliance with this section by the authorized officer, his or
her facsimile signature shall have the same legal effect as his or her manual
signature.
(Ord. No. 363, §4, 11-21-00)
State law reference: Title 62 O.S. 2001 §§ 601 et seq, as amended.
CHAPTER 3
AIR POLLUTION
Sec. 3-1. Short title.
This chapter may be known as the Air Quality Control Ordinance.
(Code 1976, 8-1-1)
Sec. 3-2. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Air contaminant shall mean any smoke, soot, fly ash, dust, cinder, dirt,
noxious or obnoxious acids, fumes, oxides, gases, vapors, odors, toxic or
radioactive substances, waste particulates, solid, liquid, or gaseous matter in
the atmosphere which when in sufficient quantities is capable of injuring
human, plant or animal life or depriving the enjoyment thereof.
   Air pollution shall mean the emission of any air contaminants in such place
or manner which when by itself or combined with other air contaminants present
in the atmosphere is detrimental to or endangers the health, comfort, or safety
of any person or which may cause injury or damage to property or premises.
   Atmosphere shall mean the air that envelopes or surrounds the earth
including the interior of buildings or other structures not specifically
designed for the purpose of containing air contaminants.
   Board shall mean the variance board.
   Chimney or stack shall mean chimney, stack, conduit, duct, vent, flue, or
opening of any kind whatsoever arranged to conduct any products to the
atmosphere.
   Combustible materials and fuels shall mean any substance, which will readily
burn and shall include those substances, which, although generally considered
noncombustible, are, or may be included in the mass of the combustible
materials burned or to be burned.
   Dense smoke shall mean smoke of a shade or the equivalent opacity of the
shade, designated as No. 1 on the Ringelmann Chart or greater.
   Director shall mean the director of the city-county health department, or
his designated employees or representatives.
   Emission shall mean the emission of air contaminants into the atmosphere.
   Evaporating loss control system shall mean a system or device designed and
installed in such a manner as to reduce or prevent the emission to the
atmosphere of the vapors of the hydrocarbon fuel contained in the fuel tank,
carburetor, or fuel pump of the motor vehicle.
   Exhaust emission control system shall mean a system, device, or engine
modification designed and installed in such a manner as to reduce or prevent
the emission to the atmosphere of air pollutant gases vapors, and particulate
matter released from the motor vehicle engine through the exhaust manifold and
tailpipe.
   Fuel burning equipment shall mean any equipment, machinery, device,
structure or contrivance, and all appurtenances thereto, including ducts,
breeching, fuel-feeding equipment, ash removal equipment, internal combustion
engines, combustion controls, stacks, and chimneys, which burn fuel or
combustible material for the purpose of producing heat or energy, but shall not
mean process equipment or operations or incinerators.
   Incinerator shall mean any device, structure or contrivance used to dispose
of refuse or other waste by burning or the processing of salvageable material
by burning but excluding flares.
   Motor vehicle shall mean a self-propelled, wheeled vehicle designed for
normal use of public streets and highways.
   Motor vehicle pollution control device shall mean any or all of the devices
or systems referred to in this section and designed to control or prevent air
pollution emissions from motor vehicles.
   Multiple chamber incinerators shall mean any incinerator consisting of two
(2) or more combustion chambers of in-line or retort type physically separated
by curtained walls with gas passage ports or ducts and designed for maximum
combustion of the material to be burned.
   Open burning shall mean the burning of combustible materials or refuse in
such a manner that the products of combustion are emitted directly into the
atmosphere.
   Open-pit incinerator shall mean a device consisting of a pit (into which the
material to be burned is placed), nozzles, pipes, and other appurtenances
designed and arranged in a manner to deliver additional air or auxiliary fuel
to, or near, the zone of combustion so that theoretically complete combustion
is accomplished or approached.
   Particulate matter shall mean discrete particles of liquid (except
uncombined water) or solid matter or both which may be or may not be suspended
in air.
   Positive crankcase ventilator shall mean a system or device designed and
installed in such a manner as to prevent or reduce the release or emission into
the atmosphere of gases or vapors produced or otherwise present in the
crankcase of the engine of a motor vehicle.
   Process equipment or operation shall mean any equipment, machinery, device,
or premises used for the treating, processing, or manufacturing of materials,
products, or substances which operation may emit smoke, particulate matter, or
other air contaminants.
   Process weight shall mean the total weight of all materials introduced into
any specific process equipment or operation. Solid fuels shall be considered as
part of the process weight, but liquids and gases used solely as fuel shall
not.
   Process weight per hour shall mean the weight derived by dividing the total
process weight by the number of hours in one (1) complete operation from the
beginning of any given process to the completion thereof excluding any time
during which the equipment is idle.
   Products of combustion shall mean all particulate matter and other air
contaminants emitted as a result of the burning of refuse and combustible
materials.
   Proprietary information shall mean any information obtained pursuant to this
chapter, which relates to sales figures or to production processes unique to
the owner or operator or which affect the competitive position of such owner or
operator.
   Refuse shall mean garbage, rubbish, trade waste, leaves, salvageable
material, agricultural waste, and other wastes.
   Ringelmann Chart shall mean the chart for grading the appearance, density,
shade, or opacity of smoke, as published with instructions for use by the
United States Bureau of Mines, in Information Circular 7718, dated August 1955.
   Smoke shall mean small gas borne or airborne particles resulting from
combustion operations and consisting of carbon, ash, and other matter that is
present in sufficient quantity to be observable.
   Source shall mean any physical arrangement or structure, which may emit air
contaminants. It includes, but is not limited to, stacks, chimneys, building
openings, open fires, vehicles, processes, equipment, structures, and premises.
   Source gas volume shall mean the total amount of gas including air
contaminants, emitted from any process, equipment, or operation into the
atmosphere.
(Code 1976, 8-1-2)
Sec. 3-3. Amendments.
The city council shall not enact or amend any ordinance, rule or regulation
concerning air quality control without first holding a public hearing and
giving not less than ten (10) days notice of the time and place of such hearing
by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Code 1976, 8-1-3)
Sec. 3-4. Enforcement officer.
The director shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1976, 8-1-4)
Sec. 3-5. Notices.
All notice required under this chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be in
writing and shall be served upon the person being given notice personally or
mailed to his last known address, postage prepaid. The date of mailing shall be
considered as the date such notice is given.
(Code 1976, 8-1-14)
Sec. 3-6. Variance Board.
   (a)   There is hereby created a variance board, which shall consist of five
(5) members to be appointed by the mayor with the consent and approval of the
council.
   (b)   The members shall be residents of the city and shall not be employees
of the federal, state, or municipal governments.
   (c)   The members of the board shall serve for a term of three (3) years or
until their successors are appointed. The terms shall expire on June 30 in the
year in which the term would expire regardless of the date of appointment.
Members may be removed for cause. A member appointed to fill a vacancy shall
serve the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (d)   The members of the board shall have the power to subpoena witnesses,
require the production of records, documents and other matters and administer
oaths. Three (3) members shall constitute a quorum provided that no variance
shall be granted or revoked without the concurrence of at least three (3)
members. The board shall select from its number a chairman who shall serve for
a period of one (1) year. The meetings and hearings of the board shall be
called by the chairman. The members shall be given notice five (5) days prior
to any hearing or meeting. Emergency meetings or hearings may be held provided
all members consent to such meeting in writing. The board shall make other
rules and regulations concerning the procedure in granting or revoking
variances, as it shall deem necessary.
(Code 1976, 8-1-10)
Sec. 3-7. Variances.
   (a)   Variances from the strict provisions of this chapter may be granted by
the board pursuant to applications therefore when:
   (1)   Due to conditions beyond the control of the person in violation,
compliance with this chapter will result in an arbitrary and unreasonable
taking of property or the practical closing and elimination of any lawful
business, occupation, or activity; and
   (2)   There are not sufficient corresponding benefits or advantage to the
public in the reduction of air pollution.
   (b)   Any person may make an application for a variance by paying the
required fee and by filing a written application with the director. The
application form shall be verified by the applicant and set forth all
information required by the board, including the full name and address of the
applicant, the nature of the violation and the extent to which a variance is
sought. Any applicant for a variance shall pay a fee to the city clerk in the
amount established by resolution. Such fee shall be paid each time a variance
is sought provided that the board may in its discretion review any variance
denied within ninety (90) days from the date of such denial without additional
cost to the applicant.
   (c)   Variances shall be for a specified time but not to exceed one (1)
year. Upon expiration of a variance, additional variances may be granted. A
variance granted shall be personal to the applicant and not transferable. All
variances granted are subject to review and revocation by the board.
   (d)   No variance shall be granted or revoked without first holding a public
hearing. Not less than ten (10) days' notice shall be given to all interested
persons as appear in the files and records of the board. In addition, notice of
such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of hearing.
(Code 1976, 8-1-9, 8-1-11, 8-1-12, 8-1-15)
Sec. 3-8. Liability for violations.
Any person owning, operating, or controlling a source of air contaminants,
which violates this chapter, shall be subject to all penalties and liabilities
for such violation. Each day of any such violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Code 1976, 8-1-17)
Sec. 3-9. Nuisance declared; abatement authorized.
The emission of air contaminants in violation of this chapter is declared to be
a public nuisance and may be abated by the director as provided by law.
(Code 1976, 8-1-16)
Sec. 3-10. Abatement procedure.
   (a)   In addition to any penalties, upon determination by the director that
a violation of this section has occurred and that the person in violation has
not furnished satisfactory proof that corrective measures have been or are
being taken to abate the nuisance, the director shall give written notice to
the person in violation, to abate the nuisance. The notice shall specify the
section, which is being violated, and a reasonable time limit not exceeding
twenty (20) days within which to abate the nuisance.
   (b)   If at the end of the time allowed the violation has not been
corrected, the director shall abate the nuisance as provided by law.
(Code 1976, 8-1-5)
Sec. 3-11. Summary abatement.
When a violation of this chapter creates a hazardous or dangerous condition
capable of immediately harming life or property the director shall summarily
abate the nuisance immediately and without notice.
(Code 1976, 8-1-6)
Cross reference--Nuisances,
Ch. 15.
Sec. 3-12. Interference with director.
No person shall interfere in any manner or impede the director in the
performance of his duties.
(Code 1976, 8-1-7)
Sec. 3-13. Tests, data sampling.
Upon written notice, the director may require from any person subject to this
chapter data to establish the nature, extent, quantity, or degree of air
contaminants, which are or may be charged by a source under such person's
control, and may require that such data be certified by a professional engineer
registered in the state. The director may at his expense, designate an agent to
independently gather data as to the nature, extent, quantity, and degree of any
air contaminants, which are or may be discharged from the source. Subject to
the confidentiality requirements of section
3-14, an agent so designated is authorized to inspect any facilities and
equipment necessary to gather the data. The owners of the premises being
inspected will make the same available to inspection and shall permit the
director to install and maintain sampling and testing apparatus as are
reasonable and necessary for measurement of emissions of air contaminants,
provided that they shall not unduly interfere with the operations of the owner.
The director may, in writing, require the owner to provide, and maintain means
of access to locations for sampling and testing purposes, in order to secure
data that will disclose the nature, extent, quantity, or degree of air
contaminants discharged into the atmosphere.
(Code 1976, 8-1-8)
Sec. 3-14. Proprietary information; closed hearings.
   (a)   Any proprietary information furnished or obtained pursuant to this
chapter shall not be disclosed to anyone other than the director, the board, or
a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (b)   Upon request of the interested party, all hearings, or trials in which
proprietary information is to be divulged shall be held "in camera" and such
information shall be sealed, and access otherwise limited.
(Code 1976, 8-1-13)
Sec. 3-15. Pollution prohibited.
No person shall permit or cause air pollution.
(Code 1976, 8-1-18)
Sec. 3-16. Emission of dense smoke prohibited.
No person shall cause or permit the emission of dense smoke from any source
whatever except as specifically permitted.
(Code 1976, 8-1-19)
Sec. 3-17. Incinerators.
   (a)   Permit required. No person shall install or make any alteration or
modification to an incinerator, which affects the emission of air contaminants
without first having obtained a permit from the director.
   (b)   Application for permit. A person making application for a permit shall
furnish such information concerning the incinerator as the director may request
including the plans, specifications, and manufacturer’s descriptive literature
and test reports.
   (c)   Specifications. All incinerators shall be multiple chambered, gas
fired in the primary and secondary changer, and water scrubbed. All
incinerators shall have a capacity of seventy- five (75) pounds per hour or
greater provided that this capacity shall not be applicable to incinerators
designed and used exclusively as pathological incinerators. An incinerator of
different construction may be used when the director determines that the
incinerator will be equally effective in controlling the emission of air
contaminants and approves its installation.
   (d)   Operation. All incinerators shall be maintained and operated according
to good practices.
   (e)   Emission of particulate matter. Incinerators with a maximum burning
capacity of two hundred (200) pounds per hour or more shall not emit
particulate matter in excess of 0.2 grains per dry cubic foot corrected to
twelve (12) percent carbon dioxide (CO2) of exhaust gas under standard
condition. Incinerators with a maximum burning capacity of less than two
hundred (200) pounds per hour shall not emit particulate matter in excess of
0.3 grains per dry cubic foot corrected to twelve (12) percent carbon dioxide
(CO2) of exhaust gas under standard conditions.
   (f)   When dense smoke permitted. Incinerators may emit dense smoke not
exceeding a shade or the equivalent opacity of the shade designated as No. 2 on
the Ringelmann Chart for periods not exceeding five (5) minutes in any sixty-
minute period and not exceeding twenty (20) minutes in any twenty-four-hour
period.
(Code 1976, 8-1-20)
Sec. 3-18. Fuel burning equipment.
   (a)   Emission of particulate matter prohibited. Fuel burning equipment
shall not emit particulate matter in excess of that indicated on Table 1 or
Chart 1.
   (b)   Existing fuel burning equipment, exception. Fuel burning equipment in
operation prior to June 29, 1976, shall not emit particulate matter in excess
of 0.6 pounds per million BTU heat input provided that all such existing fuel
burning equipment shall comply with all the provisions of this chapter within
twelve (12) months after it becomes effective.
(Code 1976, 8-1-21)
Sec. 3-19. Process equipment or operations.
   (a)   Particulate matter emission. Process equipment or operations shall not
emit from the premises upon which such equipment or operation is located,
particulate matter in excess of that indicated on Table 2, Table 3, or Chart 2.
   (b)   Dust control. The owner or operator of any process equipment or
operation shall maintain dust control of the premises and plant owned, leased,
or controlled access roads by paving, oil treatment, or other suitable
measures. Good operating practices shall be observed in relation to
stockpiling, screen changing, and general maintenance to prevent dust
generation and atmospheric entrainment. Good operating practices, including
water spraying or other suitable measures, shall be employed to minimize dust
generation and emission when bins are pulled.
(Code 1976, 8-1-22, 8-1-23)
Sec. 3-20. Hot mix asphalt plants.
   (a)   Hot mix asphalt plants shall not emit particulate matter into the
atmosphere in excess of the quantity set out in the following table:
Particulate Matter
Aggregate Process Emission
Weight Peer Hour  Rate Per Hour
Pounds            Pounds
Particulate Matter
Aggregate Process Emission
Weight Peer Hour  Rate Per Hour
Pounds            Pounds
20000             16
30000             22
40000             28
50000             31
100000            33
200000            37
300000            40
400000            43
500000            47
600000            50
 
For a process weight between any two (2) consecutive process weights stated in
this table, the emission limitation shall be determined by interpolation.
   (b)   Hot mix asphalt plants may emit dense smoke not exceeding a shade or
the equivalent opacity of the shade designated as No. 3 on the Ringelmann
Chart, for periods not exceeding four (4) minutes in any sixty-minute period.
   (c)   No hot mix asphalt plant shall be operated unless it is equipped with
a fugitive dust control system, which prevents the emission of particulate
matter from any point other than the chimney.
(Code 1976, 8-1-23)
Sec. 3-21. Open burning.
   No person shall cause or permit an open burning in any public or private
place outside any building, provided that open burning may be conducted if no
public nuisance is or will be created, as follows:
   (1)   Fire purposely set for the instruction and training of fire fighting
personnel when authorized by the fire chief;
   (2)   Fires set for the elimination of fire hazards or hazardous material
where there is no other practical or lawful method of disposal, and such
burning is authorized by the fire chief and director;
   (3)   Campfires and other fires used solely for recreational or ceremonial
purposes, or for outdoor noncommercial preparation of food;
   (4)   Fires purposely set for the management of forest or game in accordance
with practices recommended by the Oklahoma Department of Agriculture, the
United States Forest Service and which are authorized by the fire chief;
   (5)   The burning of combustible material in an open pit incinerator, which
is designed and operated for the control of smoke and particulate matter;
   (6)   The burning of hydrocarbons by atmospheric flares when no other means
of disposal is practical.
(Code 1976, 8-1-24l Code 2004)
Cross-references--Fire generally,
10-21 et seq.; burning garbage prohibited
23-22.
Sec. 3-22. Motor vehicle pollution control devices.
   (a)   This section shall apply to all motor vehicles registered or subject
to registration with the Oklahoma State Tax Commission in which as new
vehicles, motor vehicle pollution control devices have been installed by virtue
of federal laws and regulations, in effect now and hereafter, requiring such
devices to be installed. However, nothing in this section shall supersede or
otherwise modify such federal laws and regulations, nor shall anything in this
section be construed to require the installation of motor vehicle pollution
control devices on motor vehicles not referred to by such federal laws and
regulations.
   (b)   No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit the removal,
disconnection or disabling of a motor vehicle pollution control device, which
is on a motor vehicle.
   (c)   Operation of a motor vehicle or its engine, which uses liquefied
petroleum gas as fuel is hereby exempted from provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1976, 8-1-25)
Sec. 3-23. Table 1, fuel-burning equipment.
The following table, which shall be known as "Table 1," and may be cited as
such, shall be applicable to the provisions of this chapter as specified in
this chapter:
FUEL BURNING EQUIPMENT
TABLE 1
 
Maximum Allowable Emissions
Heat Input in Million British of Particulate Matter
Thermal Units per Hour        In Pounds per Million British
Up to and including 10        Thermal Units
100                           0.60
1,000                         0.35
10,000                        0.20
 
Sec. 3-24. Table 2, process equipment or operations, allowable rate of
particulate matter emissions based on process weight rate.
The following table, which shall be known as "Table 2," and may be cited as
such, shall be applicable to the provisions of this chapter as specified in
this chapter:
PROCESS EQUIPMENT OR OPERATIONS
TABLE 2
ALLOWABLE RATE OR PARTICULATE
MATTER EMISSION BASED ON
PROCESS WEIGHT RATE
Process Weight Tons/Hr Lb./Hr
Rate Lb./Hr.           Rate of Emission
ALLOWABLE RATE OR PARTICULATE
MATTER EMISSION BASED ON
PROCESS WEIGHT RATE
Process Weight Tons/Hr Lb./Hr
Rate Lb./Hr.           Rate of Emission
100            0.05    0.1
200            0.10    0.877
400            0.20    1.4
600            0.30    1.83
800            0.40    2.22
2.58           0.50    2.58
1500           0.75    3.38
2000           1.00    4.10
2500           1.25    4.76
3000           1.50    5.38
3500           1.75    5.96
4000           2.00    6.52
5000           2.50    7.58
6000           3.00    8.56
7000           3.50    9.49
8000           4.00    10.4
9000           4.50    11.2
10000          5.00    12.0
12000          6.00    13.6
16000          8.00    16.5
18000          9.00    27.9
20000          10      19.2
30000          15      25.2
40000          20      30.5
50000          25      35.4
60000          30      40.0
70000          35      41.3
80000          40      42.5
90000          45      43.6
100000         50      44.6
120000         60      46.3
140000         70      47.8
160000         80      49.0
200000         100     51.2
1000000        500     69.0
2000000        1000    77.6
6000000        3000    92.7
 
Interpolation of the data in this table for process weight rates up to 60,000
lb. /hr. shall be accomplished by the use of the equation # equal 4.10 PO.67,
and interpolation and extrapolation of the data for process weight rates in
excess of 60,000 lb. /hr. shall be accomplished by use of the equation E equal
55.0 PO.11-40, where E equal rate of emission in lb. /hr. and P equal process
weight rate in tons/hr.
Utilization of this table is accomplished by first determining the process rate
in lb. /hr. or in tons/hr. and then reading the allowable rate of emission in
lb. /hr. horizontally to the right.
Sec. 3-25. Table 3, process equipment or operations; allowable rate of
particulate matter emission based upon volume per scfm.
The following table, which shall be known as "Table 3," and may be cited as
such, shall be applicable to the provisions of this chapter as specified in
this chapter:
PROCESS EQUIPMENT OR OPERATIONS TABLE 3
ALLOWABLE RATE OF PARTICULATE
MATTER OF EMISSION
BASED ON VOLUME PER SCFM
Source Gas Volume, SCFM Concentration GR/SCF
ALLOWABLE RATE OF PARTICULATE
MATTER OF EMISSION
BASED ON VOLUME PER SCFM
Source Gas Volume, SCFM Concentration GR/SCF
7000 or less            0.100
8000                    0.096
9000                    0.092
10000                   0.089
20000                   0.071
30000                   0.062
40000                   0.057
50000                   0.053
60000                   0.050
80000                   0.045
100000                  0.042
120000                  0.040
140000                  0.038
160000                  0.036
180000                  0.035
200000                  0.034
300000                  0.030
400000                  0.027
500000                  0.025
600000                  0.024
800000                  0.021
1000000 or more         0.020
 
Interpolation of the data in this table shall be accomplished by the use of the
equation C equal 1.78S minus 0.325 where S equals source gas volume; SCFM and C
equal concentration in grains per SCF. (GR equal Grains)
Utilization of this table is accomplished by first determining the source gas
volume in SCFM and then reading the allowable concentration in GR/SCF
horizontally to the right.
Sec. 3-26. Chart 1, particulate matter emission limits for fuel-burning
equipment.
The following chart, which shall be known as "Chart 1," and may be cited as
such, shall be applicable to the provisions of this chapter as specified in
this chapter:
Chart 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2861.png]
 
Sec. 3-27. Chart 2, collection efficiency based on particle size.
The following chart, which shall be known as "Chart 2," and may be cited as
such, shall be applicable to the provisions of this chapter as specified in
this chapter:
Chart 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2863.png]
 
CHAPTER 4
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Sec. 4-1. Definitions.
All of the terms and phrases used in this Chapter shall be given the same use
and meaning as defined by the Oklahoma Alcoholic Beverage Control Act and/or
Title 37A O.S., 1- 103, and which definitions include, but are not limited to
the following:
   ABLE Commission means the Alcoholic Beverage Laws Enforcement Commission.
   Alcoholic beverage means alcohol, spirits, beer, and wine as those terms are
defined herein and also includes every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer and capable of being consumed as a
beverage by human beings.
   Beer means any beverage of alcohol by volume and obtained by the alcoholic
fermentation of an infusion or decoction of barley, or other grain, malt, or
similar products. "Beer" includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager
beer, porter, and other malt or brewed liquors, but does not include sake,
known as Japanese rice wine.
   Licensee means any person holding a license under the Oklahoma Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act, and any agent, servant, or employee of such licensee
while in the performance of any act or duty in connection with the licensed
business or on the licensed premises.
   Low-point beer means and includes beverages containing more than one-half of
one percent (.5%) alcohol by volume, and not more than three and two-tenths
(3.2%) percent alcohol by weight, including, but not limited to beer or cereal
malt beverages obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley
or other grain, malt, or similar products.
   Mixed beverage means one or more servings of a beverage composed in whole or
part of an alcoholic beverage in a sealed or unsealed container of any legal
size for consumption on the premises where served or sold by the holder of a
mixed beverage, beer and wine, caterer, public event, charitable event, or
special event license.
   Package store means any sole proprietor or partnership that qualifies to
sell wine, beer and/or spirits for off-premises consumption and that is not a
grocery store, convenience store or drug store, or other retail outlet that is
not permitted to sell wine or beer for off-premises consumption.
   Person means and includes an individual, any type of partnership,
corporation, association, limited liability company or any individual involved
in the legal structure of any such business entity.
   Retailer means a package store, grocery store, convenience store or drug
store licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption
pursuant to a Retail Spirits License, Retail Wine License or Retail Beer
License.
   Spirits means any beverage other than wine or beer, which contains more than
one-half of one percent (.5%) alcohol measured by volume, and obtained by
distillation, whether or not mixed with other substances in solution, and
includes those products known as whisky, brandy, rum, gin, vodka, liqueurs,
cordials, fortified wines and similar compounds but shall not include any
alcohol liquid completely denatured in accordance with the Acts of Congress and
regulations pursuant thereto.
   Wine means and includes any beverage containing more than one-half of one
percent (.5%) alcohol measured by volume and not more than twenty four percent
(24%) alcohol by volume at sixty (60) degrees Fahrenheit obtained by the
fermentation of the natural contents of fruits, vegetables, honey, milk, or
other products containing sugar, whether or not other ingredients are added,
and includes vermouth and sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
(Ord. No. 355, 6(8a-9-8), 9-3-85 Ord. No. 471, 2, 7-7-92 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-
17-95)
State law reference-Similar provisions, 37A O.S. 1-103 Definitions.
Sec. 4-2. Occupation tax.
   (a)   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual occupation tax on every
business or occupation relating to alcoholic beverages as specifically
enumerated herein and, in the amount, herein stated:
   (1)   Retailers:
   a.   Retail Wine Licensees, one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
   b.   Retail Beer Licensees, five hundred dollars ($500.00)
   c.   Retail Spirits Licensees, nine hundred five dollars ($905.00)
   (2)   Mixed Beverage Licensees:
   a.   Initial, one thousand five dollars ($1,005.00)
   b.   Renewal, nine hundred five dollars ($905.00)
   (3)   On Premises Beer and Wine Licensees:
   a.   Initial, five hundred dollars ($500.00)
   b.   Renewal, four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00)
   (4)   Caterer Licensees:
   a.   Initial, one thousand five dollars ($1,005.00)
   b.   Renewal, nine hundred five dollars ($905.00)
   (5)   Mixed Beverage / Caterer Combination Licensees:
   a.   One thousand, two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00)
   (6)   Special Event Licensees:
   a.   Annual (up to four events), fifty-five dollars ($55.00)
   b.   Quarterly (up to three events over three-month period), fifty-five
dollars ($55.00)
   (7)   Public Event Licensees:
   a.   Annual (up to six events), one thousand five dollars ($1,005.00)
   b.   One-Time, two hundred fifty-five dollars ($255.00)
   (8)   Bottle Club Licensees:
   a.   Initial, one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
   b.   Renewal, nine hundred dollars ($900.00) (Ord. No. 697, §1, 09-02-2014)
State Law Reference. O.S. Title 37A, §§ 2-101, et seq.
   (b)   The occupation tax for those service organizations which are exempt
under Section 501 (c) (19), (8) and (10) of the Internal Revenue Code for mixed
beverage license shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) per year.
   (c)   Any state licensee originally entering upon any occupation herein
listed shall pay the tax therefore at the office of the city clerk on or before
the date upon which he enters upon such occupation. The licensee shall provide
a copy of his current state license before payment of an occupation tax will be
accepted. The licensee shall pay the tax annually on or before June 30 of each
year.
   (d)   All licenses, except as otherwise provided, shall be valid for one (1)
year from the date of issuance unless revoked or surrendered; provided, that a
special event license shall be valid for a period not to exceed ten (10)
consecutive days from the first day the license is valid, said date to be
specified on the license, unless otherwise provided by state law.
   (e)   Upon payment of the occupation tax, the city clerk shall issue a
receipt to the state licensee, which said licensee shall post in a conspicuous
place on the premises wherein he carries on his occupation.
   (f)   Any person who engages in any of the occupations taxed by this chapter
without paying said occupation tax imposed therefore in advance of such
operation is guilty of an offense against the city.
   (g)   The city clerk shall make an annual report to the ABLE Commission,
covering the fiscal year, showing the number and class of licensees subject to
the occupation tax and the amount of money collected from the tax.
(Ord. No. 355, 2(8a-9-3), 2(8a-9-2), 3(8a-9-3), 9-3-85 Ord. No. 471, 2, 7-7-92
Ord. No. 510 1, 9-20-94 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
Cross References--licenses, permits, and miscellaneous business regulations,
Chapter 11 public intoxication,
12-45 driving while intoxicated, etc.,
13-9 et seq. transportation of alcoholic beverages,
13-12 transportation of low-point beer,
13-13.
State law reference-License fees and surcharges, 37A O.S. § 2-101. Occupation
tax authorized, 37A O.S., § 4-104.
Sec. 4-3. Certificates of compliance.
   (a)   Every applicant for a certificate of compliance with the zoning, fire,
health, and safety codes of the city required by Title 37A of the Oklahoma
Statutes shall apply at the office of the city clerk by:
   (1)   Filing a written application on forms prescribed by that office and
   (2)   Paying a verification and certification fee in the amount established
by resolution at the time of filing. Upon receipt of an application for a
certificate of compliance, the city clerk shall cause an investigation to be
made to determine whether the premises proposed for licensed operations comply
with the provision of the zoning ordinance and any health, fire, building, and
other safety codes applicable to it. The city clerk shall act on all such
applications within twenty (20) days of receipt thereof.
   (b)   Upon finding that the premises of an applicant for a certificate is in
compliance with all applicable fire, safety, and health codes, a certificate of
compliance shall be issued to the ABLE Commission. The certificates of
compliance shall be signed by the mayor or by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 355, 4(8a-9-6), 5(8a-9-7), 9-3-85\ Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
State law reference--Certificates of compliance as prerequisite to state
license, 37A O.S. § 2-142.
Sec. 4-4. Drinking alcoholic beverage on premises.
No person shall drink or consume in any manner alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a retailer, nor shall any person open or break the seal of any
original package or retail container containing alcoholic beverages on the
premises of any such retailer.
(Ord. No. 389, 1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 471, 2, 7-7-92 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
Sec. 4-5. Sale of alcoholic beverages prohibited.
No person shall sell at retail, and no person shall deliver, in consequence or
in completion of such a sale, any alcoholic beverages at any place in this
city, except at a retailer or mixed beverage establishment in strict conformity
with this chapter and the laws of the State of Oklahoma.
(Ord. No. 389, 1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 471, 2, 7-7-92 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
Sec. 4-6. Location of mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment, or bottle club.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any mixed beverage establishment, beer and
wine establishment or bottle club which has been licensed by the ABLE
Commission and which has as its main purpose the selling or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or package store, to be
located within three hundred (300) feet of any public or private school or
church property primarily and regularly used for worship services and religious
activities; however, a college or university located within an improvement
district created pursuant to Section 39-103.1 of Title 11 of the Oklahoma
Statutes may waive the three-hundred-foot requirement by providing written
notice to the establishment seeking the license and to the ABLE Commission;
further, a church may waive the three-hundred-foot requirement by providing
written notice to the establishment seeking the license and to the ABLE
Commission. Provided, a college or university or church prior to waiving the
three-hundred-foot requirement found in this subsection shall publish a notice
of its intention to waive such requirement in a legal newspaper of general
circulation within the state at least thirty (30) days but no more than forty
(40) days prior to providing any written notice, waiving the three-hundred-foot
requirement, to the establishment seeking the license or to the ABLE
Commission. As used in this subsection "legal newspaper of general circulation
within this state" means a newspaper meeting the requisites of a newspaper for
publication of legal notices as prescribed in Section 106 of Title 25 of the
Oklahoma Statutes in a majority of the counties in this state.
   B.   The distance indicated in this section shall be measured from the
nearest property line of such public or private school or church to the nearest
perimeter wall of the premises of any such mixed beverage establishment, beer
and wine establishment, bottle club or package store which has been licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
   1.   Mixed beverage establishments, beer and wine establishments, or bottle
clubs, which have been licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises
consumption or retail package stores prior to November 1, 2000; provided, if at
the time of application for license renewal the licensed location has not been
in actual operation for a continuous period of more than sixty (60) days, the
license shall not be renewed; or
   2.    Establishments licensed prior to October 1, 2018, to sell low-point
beer which were permitted to be located within three hundred (300) feet of any
public or private school or church property primarily and regularly used for
worship services and religious activities, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 163.27 of Title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes. Such establishments shall
be permitted to have any license in effect on October 1, 2018, transferred to a
mixed beverage license; provided, if such an establishment ceases to regularly
be open to the public or changes ownership, the provisions of this paragraph
shall cease to apply.
   D.   If any school or church shall be established within three hundred (300)
feet of any package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section after
such package store, mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine establishment
or bottle club has been licensed, the provisions of this section shall not be a
deterrent to the renewal of such license if there has not been a lapse of more
than sixty (60) days. When any mixed beverage establishment, beer and wine
establishment or bottle club subject to the provisions of this section which
has a license to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption, or
package store, changes ownership or the operator thereof is changed and such
change of ownership results in the same type of business being conducted on the
premises, the provisions of this section shall not be a deterrent to the
issuance of a license to the new owner or operator if he or she is otherwise
qualified.
   E.   1.   Any interested party may protest the application for or granting
of a license for a package store, or for a mixed beverage establishment, beer
and wine establishment or bottle club which has as its main purpose the selling
or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, based on an
alleged violation of this section. To be considered by the ABLE Commission, the
protest must:
   a)   be submitted in writing,
   b)   be signed by the person protesting,
   c)   contain the mailing address and address of residence, if different from
the mailing address of the protester,
   d)   contain the title of the person signing the protest, if the person is
acting in an official capacity as a church or school official, and
   e)   contain a concise statement explaining why the application is being
protested.
   2.   Within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt of a written protest,
the ABLE Commission shall conduct a hearing on the protest if the protest meets
the requirements of paragraph 1 of this subsection.
   3.   As used in this subsection, "interested party" means:
   a)   a parent or legal guardian whose child or children attend the church or
school which is alleged to be closer to the mixed beverage establishment or
bottle club which has as its main purpose the selling or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises, or package store, than is allowed by
this section,
   b)   an official of a church which is alleged to be closer to the mixed
beverage establishment or bottle club which has as its main purpose the selling
or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or package
store, than is allowed by this section, or
   c)   an official of a school which is alleged to be closer to the mixed
beverage establishment or bottle club which has as its main purpose the selling
or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or package
store, than is allowed by this section.
State law reference - Title 37A O.S., § 2-139 (2019 Edition).
(Ord. No. 389, 1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 471, 2, 7-7-92 Ord. No. 510, 2, 9-20-94 Ord.
No. 519, 1, 10-17-95; 2020 City Code)
Sec. 4-7. Sale of alcoholic beverages to minors.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly sell, deliver, or furnish alcoholic
beverages at any place within this city to any person who is under twenty-one
(21) years of age.
   (b)   No person under twenty-one (21) years shall misrepresent his age in
writing or present false documentation of age or otherwise for the purpose of
inducing any person to sell him alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 389, 1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
Sec. 4-8. Consumption/possession of alcoholic beverages by minors.
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to
consume or possess with intent to consume any alcoholic beverage as defined in
Section 1-103 of Title 37A of the Oklahoma Statutes.
(Ord. No. 389, 1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 471, 2, 7-7-92 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95;
2012 Code)
Sec. 4-9. Sale of alcoholic beverage to intoxicated person.
No person, at any place within this city, shall sell, deliver, or knowingly
furnish alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person or to any person who has
been adjudged insane or mentally deficient.
(Ord. No. 389, 1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
Sec. 4-10. Transporting open alcoholic beverage container.
No person within this city shall transport in any vehicle upon any public
highway, street, or alley any alcoholic beverages, unless such alcoholic
beverage is:
   (a)   In an unopened container with seal unbroken and the original cap or
cork not removed from the container, or
   (b)   In the trunk or other closed compartment or other container, out of
public view and out of reach of the driver or any occupant of the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 389, 1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
Sec. 4-11. Public drinking of alcoholic beverages.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person within this city to drink any
alcoholic beverage in any public place unless said public place is the location
of a special public event, pursuant to a special public event permit approved
by the City.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be intoxicated in a public
place within this city.
(Ord. No. 389, §1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 519, §1, 10-17-95; Ord. No. 749 §1, 09-16-
2019; Ord. No. 774, § 2, 10-14-24)
Sec. 4-12. Sale of alcoholic beverages by minors.
   (a)   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years will be employed in the
selling, manufacture, distribution, or other handling of alcoholic beverages at
any place within this city.
   (b)   No person shall employ or assist or aid in causing the employment of
any person under the age of eighteen (18) years at any place within this city
in the selling, manufacture, distribution, or other handling of alcoholic
beverages.
(Ord. No. 389, 1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
Sec. 4-13. Minors prohibited from premises of package store.
   (a)   No owner or proprietor of a package store in this city and no person
employed therein shall permit any person less than twenty-one (21) years of age
to enter into, to remain within or to loiter about the premises of such package
store.
   (b)   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall enter into,
remain within, or loiter about the premises of any package store within this
city.
(Ord. No. 389, 1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 471, 2, 7-7-92 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
Sec. 4-14. Minors prohibited from premises of bars, lounges.
   (a)   No owner or proprietor of a mixed beverage establishment in this city
and no person employed therein, shall permit any person under twenty-one (21)
years of age to enter into, to remain within or to loiter about the premises of
any separate or enclosed lounge or bar area, which has as its main purpose the
sale or distribution, of alcoholic beverages for on- premises consumption.
   (b)   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall enter into,
remain within, or loiter about the premises of a separate or enclosed lounge or
bar area within this city.
   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit persons under
twenty-one (21) years of age from being admitted to an area which has as its
main purpose some objective other than the sale of or mixing or serving of
alcoholic beverages, in which sales or serving of said beverages are incidental
to the main purpose, as long as the persons under twenty-one (21) years of age
are not sold or served alcoholic beverages.
For the purposes of this section only, the term "alcoholic beverages" shall
include low- point beer as defined in Section 4-1 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 471, 2, 7-7-92 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
Sec. 4-15. Intoxicated person prohibited from certain locations.
No person operating a cafe, restaurant, club, or any place of recreation within
this city and no employee engaged in connection with the operation of such a
cafe, restaurant, club, or place of recreation shall permit any person to be
drunk or intoxicated in said place of business.
(Ord. No. 389, 1, 7-21-87 Ord. No. 519, 1, 10-17-95)
Secs. 4-16--4-35. Reserved.
CHAPTER 5
ANIMALS
Art. I.      In General, 5-1-5-20
Art. II.      Dogs and Cats, 5-21-5-27
Art. III.      Dangerous and Potentially Dangerous Animals
      
Div. 1.   Reserved, 5-50-5-74
      
Div. 2.   Potentially Dangerous Animals, 5-75-5-99
      
Div. 3.   Dangerous Animals, Attacks, 5-100-5-103
(Ord. No. 756, §1, 09-21-2020)
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 5-1. Animal Welfare Supervisor; Impoundment.
   a)   The city manager shall appoint an Animal Welfare Supervisor.
   b)   The Animal Welfare Supervisor along with the Chief of Police and all
police officers shall impound all animals found within the city in violation of
this chapter and shall be authorized to use and discharge firearms and
tranquilizer guns within the corporate limits of the city, or on property owned
by the city outside the corporate limits, for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter and in accordance with applicable state law.
   c)   Any city officer or employee impounding an animal shall immediately
report the same to the owner of such animals, if known.
   d)   If an animal is vicious or dangerous as defined at Section 5-50 of this
Code whether it pertains to dogs or other animals, or wild, that it cannot be
safely taken up or impounded, it may be killed by the officer or Animal Welfare
Supervisor seeking to apprehend it.
   e)   Any impounded animal shall be held for a minimum of seventy-two (72)
hours. If, within that period, no owner appears to claim the animal, the animal
may be either held out for adoption or otherwise humanely euthanized. Unless
the impounded animal is being held for rabies observation, or being held for a
judicial determination pursuant to the filing of a vicious animal complaint,
the owner of an impounded animal may reclaim the animal by:
   1.   Providing proof of ownership of the animal;
   2.   Providing proof of current rabies vaccination or having rabies
vaccination administered;
   3.   Paying all impoundment fees and daily kennel fees established by
resolution;
   4.   Paying any penalties provided by this chapter.
   f)   The Animal Welfare Supervisor, or his or her designees, shall be
authorized to place traps on private property in order to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Placement of said traps shall be only at the
request of the property owner. Non-domesticated animals that are trapped by the
Animal Welfare Supervisor or his or her designees, including but not limited
to, squirrels, opossums, skunks, or other wild animals, shall be relocated or
otherwise disposed of in accordance with applicable state law. Animal Welfare
may collect feral cats trapped by residents using private traps, but Animal
Welfare will not be responsible for collecting any other wildlife trapped by
residents using private traps. Residents are responsible for contacting
Wildcare or arranging for the release of such wildlife humanely and in
accordance with state law.
(Ord. No. 591 §1, 02-03-2004; 2012 Code)
Cross references--
12-77;
13-4;
15-25(b) (7), (8), (10).
State law reference--Authority to regulate animals, 11 O.S. 22-115
Sec. 5-2. Animals prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   a)   To keep, harbor, possess, or allow remaining on any premises under his
control within the city any animal other than a cat or dog unless the animal is
kept within the confines of the house, apartment, office, accessory building,
accessory structure, clinic, kennel, or retail store and provided the animal is
not specifically prohibited herein. For the purpose of this section any pen,
cage or coop shall not be considered an accessory building or structure.
   b)   To keep, harbor, possess or allow to remain on any premises under his
or her control within the city any of the following animals:
   ∙   Skunk;
   ∙   Coyote, bear, fox, wolf, or similar carnivore;
   ∙   Leopard, panther; tiger, lion, lynx, or another similar large cat;
   ∙   Crocodile, alligator;
   ∙   Any animal, bee, insect, or arachnid with a poisonous bite or sting;
   ∙   Constricting snake capable of posing a threat to domestic animals or
humans;
   ∙   Any dangerous animal as defined by this Chapter;
   ∙   Rooster, chickens, and other poultry;
   ∙   Domestic livestock, including but not limited to cattle, hogs, or goats;
   ∙   Wildlife, including but not limited to squirrels, moles, and gophers.
   c)   To keep or harbor more than four (4) domestic cats or dogs in total.
   d)   Except for subsection (c) above, to keep or harbor one (1) litter of
pups or kittens, or any portion thereof, on any residential premises for a
period not to exceed eight (8) weeks from birth.
   e)   The provisions of subsection (b) herein shall not apply to
professionally operated animal exhibits. (Ord. No. 653, §1, 09-21-2010)
(Code 1976, 2-2-1; Ord. No. 423, 1, 6-6-89; Ord. No. 425, 1, 7-18-89; Ord. No.
498, 1, 3-1-94; Ord. No. 592, § 1, 04-06-2004; Ord. No. 607, §1, 08-02-2005)
Sec. 5-3. Failure to Provide Humane Care; Mistreatment.
   a)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning an animal to fail to provide
said animal with humane care and treatment, as described below:
   1)   Food requirements. Food shall be free from contamination and of
sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain an animal in good health.
An animal shall be fed at least once a day except as dictated by hibernation,
veterinary treatment, normal fasts, or other professionally accepted practices.
All food receptacles shall be kept clean and sanitary.
   2)   Water requirements. Safe, clean water shall be provided as often as
necessary for the health and comfort of each animal. Frequency of watering
shall consider age, species, condition, size, and type of animal. Animals shall
be watered as required by applicable State and Federal laws. All water shall be
provided in sturdy, stable receptacles of adequate size for the animal and
shall be kept clean and sanitary.
   3)   Space requirements. Enclosures or shelters for animals shall be
constructed and maintained to provide sufficient space for each animal to make
normal postural and social adjustments and to provide each animal with adequate
freedom of movement to maintain good physical condition.
   4)   Indoor shelter requirements. Facilities shall be sufficiently heated,
cooled and ventilated as to protect the animal from extremes of temperature and
to provide for its health and prevent injury or disease. Sufficient light shall
be provided, but lighting of primary enclosures shall be designed to protect
the animal from physical harm. Such lighting shall be uniformly distributed and
of sufficient intensity to permit routine inspection and cleaning.
   5)   Outdoor shelter requirements. Natural or artificial shelters
appropriate to the local climatic conditions for the particular species of
animal shall be provided for all animals left outdoors. A suitable method of
drainage shall be provided to rapidly eliminate excess water. Shelter for a dog
or cat shall consist of a moisture proof and windproof structure of suitable
size to accommodate the animal and to allow retention of body heat. It shall be
made of durable material and shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of
suitable bedding material to provide insulation and protection against cold and
dampness and to promote retention of body heat.
   6)   Veterinary and other care requirements. All animals shall have the
veterinary and other care necessary to prevent suffering.
   b)   It is unlawful for any person to kill, maim, wound, disfigure, poison
or cruelly and unmercifully treat or beat any animal or overdrive, overload or
in any other manner mistreat such animal or fail to provide same with proper
feed, drink or shelter, or drive or work or otherwise use such animal when the
same is maimed, bruised or otherwise unfit for work, or willfully abandon any
such animal to die or leave the same tied up or confined without proper feeding
and caring for same. This section is no way affects the authority granted the
Animal Welfare Supervisor and the police officers of the city to humanely
euthanize, nor for individuals to kill an animal in self-defense, when entitled
to do so by law or ordinance.
   c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to promote, stage, hold, manage,
conduct, carry on or attend any game, exhibition, contest or fight in which an
animal is used for the purpose of fighting, injuring, killing, maiming, or
destroying any other animal; and It shall be unlawful for any person to possess
or maintain any materials or equipment or paraphernalia used in animal
fighting.
   d)   It shall be unlawful for any veterinarian practicing within the City to
fail to report any animal abuse to the Animal Welfare division when the
veterinarian reasonably suspects and believes the animal has been abused. Such
report shall be made within 24 hours of the knowledge of such suspected abuse.
The report shall contain the breed and description of the animal together with
the name and address of the owner.
   e)   Whenever the Animal Welfare Supervisor or his/her designee finds any
animal is without humane care or treatment, or that any animal has been
subjected to abuse or mistreatment, the Supervisor may, at the owner's expense,
impound the animal for protective care. In the event of sickness or injury of
the animal and upon the advice of a licensed veterinarian, the Supervisor may
take appropriate action to relieve pain and suffering; this shall include the
option of immediate humane euthanasia of the animal. The Animal Welfare
Supervisor may issue a citation to the owner for a violation and/or may specify
the terms and conditions under which the owner may regain or maintain custody
of the animal, which terms and conditions statement shall be signed by the
owner. Violation of the terms and conditions by the owner is an offense against
the City and shall be cause for the issuance of a citation and may result in
the impoundment of the animal.
(Ord. No. 705 §1, 04-21-2015); (Code 1976, 2-2-4); Ord. No 755, §1, 09-21-2020.
State law reference--Cruelty to animals, 21 O.S. 1682 et seq.
Sec. 5-4. Animals suspected of rabies, etc.
   a)   Any dog or cat which is suspected of having rabies, or has been bitten
by a rabid animal, or by an animal suspected of rabies, or any dog or cat which
has bitten a person and has thereby caused an abrasion of the skin of such
person, shall be impounded or placed in a veterinary hospital, for a period of
ten (10) days; provided that where such animal has been properly vaccinated it
may be confined by its owner, away from the public, for a like term, and no
such animal shall be removed from the city limits until released from such
confinement by authority of the Animal Welfare Supervisor. The owners of such
animals shall bear all expenses involved with any such impoundment, placement,
or confinement.
   b)   If the act of impounding a dog or cat suspected of rabies constitutes
danger to the officers charged with impounding such animal, such officers are
authorized to humanely euthanize such animal.
(Code 1976, 2-1-7; Ord. No. 227, 10, 1-18-77)
Sec. 5-5. Euthanization of animals having contagious diseases.
   a)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Welfare Supervisor or other
authorized official to seize and humanely euthanize all animals diseased with
contagious or communicable diseases in all cases where the owner or person in
charge of said animal shall fail or refuse to immediately place and keep said
animal in secure confinement, separate and apart from all other animals. In all
cases where there are good reasons to believe that any animal has contracted or
may contract any contagious or communicable disease, it shall be the duty of
the Animal Welfare Supervisor or other authorized official, upon refusal or
failure of the owner to have the animal placed and kept in secure confinement
separate and apart from all other animals, at the expense of the owner to
arrange for the confinement of said animal until the animal is thoroughly cured
or declared incurable or to humanely euthanize said animal.
   b)   For the purpose of determining whether an animal is diseased with a
contagious or communicable disease, it shall be the duty of the Animal Welfare
Supervisor or other authorized official to employ a competent veterinarian to
examine the animal at the expense of the owner.
(Code 1976, 2-2-5; Ord. No. 592, § 1, 04-06-2004; Ord. No 755, §1 09-21-2020)
Sec. 5-6. Animals in Motor Vehicles.
   a)   Any animal being transported or kept in the open bed of a vehicle shall
be restrained by one or more tethers fixed to the vehicle and attached to a
collar or harness being worn by the animal in a manner that will prevent the
animal from falling, being thrown, and/or jumping from the vehicle. The animal
may also be safely enclosed within the cab of the vehicle or within a container
or cage secured in the bed of the vehicle.
   b)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle owner or operator to transport,
place, or confine an animal or allow it to be placed or confined in the
enclosed trunk of a vehicle.
   c)   It shall be unlawful for a vehicle owner or operator to place or
confine an animal, or allow it to be placed or confined, or to remain in a
vehicle without sufficient ventilation or under conditions that may reasonably
be expected to endanger the health or well-being of such animal due to
temperature, lack of water, or other circumstances that may reasonably be
expected to cause suffering, disability, or death of the animal.
   d)   Officers finding an animal under the conditions referenced above may
rescue such animal from the vehicle following the policy established by Animal
Services.
Ord. No 755, §1, 09-21-2020
Sec. 5-7. Pens, enclosures; Proper sanitation required.
   a)   Any person, owner, occupant, or tenant in control of or responsible for
any structure, pen, enclosure, yard, or place wherein an animal is harbored
shall maintain said structure, pen, enclosure, place, or yard in a secure,
clean and sanitary condition, devoid of vermin and rodents, so as to prevent
animals kept in such spaces from running at large, to prevent odors and
unsightly appearance, and to minimize disease hazards.
   b)   Any person, owner, occupant, or tenant in control of or responsible for
any structure, pen, enclosure, yard, or place wherein an animal is harbored
shall, insofar as practical, remove all fecal matter from said structure, pen,
enclosure, yard, or place at least once every twenty-four (24) hours.
   c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, occupant, or tenant in
control of or responsible for any structure, pen, enclosure, yard, or place
wherein an animal is harbored, to allow the odor of animal feces originating
from said structure, pen, enclosure, yard, or place, to emanate, drift, or
otherwise be detected by any person situated on an adjacent or nearby property
or to fail to comply with subsections (a) and (b) above.
(Ord. No. 250, 1(2-2-6), 12-19-78; Ord. No. 499, 1, 3-15-94; Ord. No. 607, §3,
08-02-2005)
Cross references--Dog defecation, urination,
5-27; Fences in disrepair,
15-25(6).
Sec. 5-8. Keeping of bees.
   a)   It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, or harbor any hive, stand, or
box where bees are kept, or keep any bees in or upon any premises within the
corporate limits of the city closer than fifteen (15) feet to the side or rear
property line of any residential lot.
   b)   Any beehive, stand, or box kept or maintained is hereby declared a
public nuisance and it shall be unlawful to keep or maintain such beehive,
stand, or box after one year from the date of passage of this section (April 1,
1986).
   c)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit the
keeping of bees in a stand or box located within a school building for the
purpose of study or observation.
(Ord. No. 363, 1, 4-1-86)
Sec. 5-9. Penalty.
Any person in violation of any provision of this Article shall be guilty of a
Class A offense punishable by a fine not to exceed Seven Hundred and Fifty
($750.00) Dollars.
(Ord. No. 499, 2, 3-15-94)
Sec. 5-10. Authority and Duties of Animal Welfare Supervisor.
   a)   The Animal Welfare Supervisor shall be responsible for the
administration and operation of Animal Welfare and the City Animal Shelter.
   b)   The Supervisor shall be responsible for the enforcement of ordinances
pertaining to animals within the City and shall work to promote responsible
animal ownership and to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens
and of all animals within the City.
   c)   The Supervisor or designee shall have authority and control over the
Animal Shelter and the care and disposition of the animals held therein and
shall have the authority to waive or modify fees in whole or in part for
hardship or special cases involving pet-owner death, or when the owner is
incarcerated or in the hospital; to rectify adoption disputes; and for
situations in which the best interests of all parties are served by such
modification or waiver.
   d)   The Supervisor shall provide care and sustenance for all impounded
animals, including veterinary care to relieve or prevent suffering.
   e)   The Supervisor or designee shall have the authority to humanely
euthanize any impounded animal, included those being held because the owner is
charged with a violation of this Code, or held in protective custody, or held
during the course of an appeal from a decision of the Municipal Court if a
veterinarian recommends such action for humane purposes.
   f)   The Supervisor or designee may establish requirements for animal owners
to facilitate the provision of humane care and treatment of an animal.
Ord. No 755, §1 09-21-2020
Sec. 5-11. Animal Welfare Officers' Right of Entry for Inspection.
For the purpose of investigating complaints, impounding animals, and carrying
out other actions necessary to enforcing the provisions of this Code, the
Animal Welfare Supervisor and his or her designees shall have authority to:
   a)   enter public or unfenced private property within the City; provided,
however, neither the Animal Welfare supervisor or any designee shall enter or
remain on unfenced private property if the owner, tenant, or any person
apparently in charge of said property denies access to it.
   b)   enter fenced private property, exclusive of buildings, without a
warrant when:
   1)   entry is by permission of the occupant of the property or of the person
in apparent charge; or
   2)   for purposes of investing either an actual or suspected violation or to
ascertain compliance or noncompliance with this Code, provided such entry is at
reasonable times; or
   3)   there is imminent danger to public health, welfare, or safety; or
   4)   there is imminent danger to an animal's health, welfare, or safety; or
   5)   the animal being sought was at large immediately prior to the Animal
Welfare division receiving a complaint that the animal was at large and was
chasing people or domestic animals or was causing the destruction or loss of
personal property, but subsequently returned to its owner's fenced private
property, and the animal has the capability to leave the fenced property by
climbing or jumping over, or crawling under, the fence, or the gate or other
entrance is not secure, allowing the animal to come and go, and provided the
location of the owner or occupant is not known to the Animal Welfare
Supervisor.
   c)   If entry is refused or delayed by the occupant or person in apparent
charge of the property, or if the conditions for warrantless entry do not
exist, the Animal Welfare Supervisor or his/her designee may apply to a Judge
of the Municipal Court for a warrant to enter the property and remove and
impound an animal.
Ord. No 755, §1, 09-21-2020
Sec. 5-12. Interfering with the Animal Welfare Supervisor or His/Her Designees.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   a)   refuse to surrender an animal upon lawful demand by the Supervisor or
his/her designee, or by any Police Officer in the official performance of his/
her duties.
   b)   interfere with the Animal Welfare Supervisor or any designee who is
lawfully performing his/her duties.
   c)   hold, hide, or conceal any animal that the Supervisor or his/her
designee has deemed to be in violation of this Chapter.
   d)   take or attempt to take any animal from the Supervisor or his/her
designee or from any vehicle used by the Animal Welfare division to transport
animals in the legal performance of the division's duties.
   e)   take or attempt to take any animal from the City Animal Shelter, a
humane live trap, or an animal carrier without proper authority.
   f)   break or attempt to break into the City Animal Shelter.
Ord. No 755, §1, 09-21-2020
Sec. 5-13. Declared Emergencies or Disasters.
During times of declared emergencies or disasters within the City, the Animal
Welfare division shall be the lead agency for domestic animal-related response,
rescue, and recovery efforts and shall work cooperatively with local, State and
Federal governmental agencies, and private animal rescue groups to respond to
the emergency or disaster. To provide pet owners with protection and assistance
during times of declared emergencies or disasters, the division may:
   a)   require that no affected animals be removed from the City, other than
by their owners, for a period of up to 30 days after an emergency or declared
disaster, without the prior written permission of the division, so that owners
have a reasonable opportunity to be reunited with lost pets.
   b)   establish a date after which affected animals can be removed from the
City.
   c)   waive some or all of the fees associated with reclaiming lost pets.
   d)   distribute donated and purchased pet-related items, including dog
houses, collars, leashes, pet food, pet care supplies, carriers, crates and
similar items to the owners or keepers of pets affected by the emergency or
disaster.
   e)   suspend normal operations to focus on the emergency or disaster,
including transferring animals no longer being held for stray holding periods
to other agencies, shelters, individuals, or rescue groups as needed or take
such other actions as may be required to address the demands of the emergency
or disaster.
Secs. 5-14--5-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. DOGS AND CATS
Sec. 5-21. Vaccination against rabies.
All dogs and cats four months of age and older that are owned, kept, possessed,
or harbored within The Village shall be vaccinated against rabies by or under
the direct supervision of a licensed veterinarian. Rabies vaccine shall be
recognized for the duration of the vaccine used, i.e., vaccines with a labeled
duration of one year, two years, or three years, will be recognized for one
year, two years or three years, respectively. A rabies vaccination need not be
obtained for a nonresident dog or cat which is currently vaccinated for rabies
by a licensed veterinarian or which is visiting in this City and is in the
custody of its owner for a period of thirty (30) days or less, or when a
veterinarian licensed in the State of Oklahoma certifies in writing that it
would be detrimental to the animal's health to be vaccinated and places the
animal on a health hold. If a veterinarian releases the animal from the health
hold, the animal shall be vaccinated within ten (10) days of release. On demand
of the Animal Welfare Supervisor or other authorized official, the owner or
keeper of any dog or cat must present a completed and signed vaccination
certificate for the animal that includes the type and duration of the vaccine
administered.
(Ord. No. 592, § 1, 04-06-2004)
Sec. 5-22. Type of vaccine required.
Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, all dogs and cats shall be
vaccinated against rabies with one of the rabies vaccines listed in the most
recent "Compendium of Animal Rabies Control" as published by the Centers for
Disease Control.
(Ord. No. 592, § 1, 04-06-2004)
Sec. 5-23. Vaccine to be administered by a veterinarian; certificates.
The vaccination required by this division shall be administered by or under the
direct supervision of a veterinarian duly licensed to practice in the State of
Oklahoma. The rabies certificate required by this chapter must be signed by the
veterinarian who either administers the vaccine or directly supervises its
administration by another.
(Ord. No. 592, § 1, 04-06-2004)
Sec. 5-24. Running at large.
   a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to keep any dog in his
custody physically confined on his property or confined by a leash at all
times. Confinement shall be accomplished by means of a substantial fence or
similar enclosure of sufficient strength and height to prevent the dog from
escaping therefrom, or from extending its head through the enclosure so as to
constitute a threat to any person or animal in the area adjoining the
enclosure; or by keeping the dog inside a house or other building; or, provided
that a person is outdoors with the dog at all such times, by a tether of at
least ten (10) feet consisting of material of sufficient strength to prevent
the dog from escaping; however, nothing shall prohibit an unattended dog from
being tethered in an enclosed area or in a fenced yard as provided herein.
   b)   The owner of a dog maintained on a tether of any type shall properly
fit the dog with a harness or buckle-type collar to which the tether shall be
attached. The tether shall be of adequate length to allow reasonable exercise
and access to water and shelter at all times, and shall not be subject to
entanglement with other objects in any manner to cause the dog any injury or
discomfort or be of a weight disproportionate to the size of the animal so
tethered as to unduly burden the animal. Tethering dogs to choke-chains or
prong collars is prohibited.
   c)   If the City is called upon to capture a cat on private property, the
owner of the cat or the person harboring said cat shall be responsible for
paying impoundment, boarding and vaccination fees, as established by Resolution
of the City Council, prior to the release of the cat by the Animal Welfare
Supervisor. If no person claims ownership of the cat and/or fails to pay the
required fees within seventy-two (72) hours, the cat shall be considered stray
and handled in accordance with the policies adopted by the City Council.
(Code 1976, 2-1-5(a); Ord. No. 227, §6, 1-18-77, Ord. No, 752, §1, 07-06-2020)
Sec. 5-25. Muzzling.
If it shall appear to the best interest of the citizens of the city and
necessary for their public health and safety, or when it is shown that a dog or
cat suspected of rabies has been on the highways within the city, the Animal
Welfare Supervisor or other authorized official, by proper proclamation, shall
notify the public that all dogs or cats at large must be securely muzzled until
such time as shall be thought safe and proper to dispense with the muzzle.
After such proclamation, it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly,
willfully, or negligently allow or permit any dog or cat owned or kept by such
person, to be in any public place or upon private premises not under the
control of the owner of same unless such dog is attended by some competent
person who has the dog or cat muzzled and on a leash.
(Code 1976, 2-1-7; Ord. No. 227, 10, 1-18-77)
Sec. 5-26. Noisy dogs.
   a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, keep, or harbor
any dog which barks, howls, or yelps continuously to the great discomfort of
the peace of any person of ordinary and reasonable sensibilities except when
said dog is temporarily disturbed by the presence of public utility workers,
routine area solid waste collection or similar such circumstances.
(Code 1976, 2-1-5(b) Ord. No. 614, §1, 02-21-2006)
Sec. 5-27. Dog defecation, urination.
   a)   Removal of dog defecation. An owner or person having custody or control
of any dog shall not permit such dog to defecate on any public street or
grounds or any private property within the city other than the premises of the
owner or person having custody or control of such dog, unless such defecation
is removed immediately and disposed of in an appropriate facility.
   b)   Prohibition of dog urination. An owner or person having custody or
control of any dog shall not permit such dog to urinate on the private
property, real or personal, of a person other than the owner or person having
custody of such dog.
(Ord. No. 364, 1, 5-6-86)
Sec. 5-28. Penalty.
Any person in violation of any provision of this Article shall be guilty of a
Class B offense punishable by a fine not to exceed two hundred ($200.00)
dollars.
(Ord. No. 499, 3, 3-15-94)
Cross reference--removal of feces, 5-7.
5-28--5-49. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS
Division 1. Reserved
Sec. 5-50-Sec. 5-74 Reserved.
Division 2. Potentially Dangerous Animals.
Sec. 5-75. Definition of potentially dangerous animal.
   a)   A potentially dangerous animal is defined as any animal, when
unprovoked:
   1.   Acts as if intends to bite a human, dog, or cat whether on public or
private property;
   2.   Chases or approaches a human upon a public way in a threatening fashion
as if to inflict injury or serious harm;
   3.   Demonstrates aggressive behavior, which requires a human to take
defensive or evasive action to avoid physical contact with the animal.
(Ord. No. 607, §4, 08-02-2005)
Sec. 5-76. Animal Welfare Supervisor - Judge to make determination;
notification.
   a)   Determination by Animal Welfare Supervisor/Police Officer. The Animal
Welfare Supervisor or investigating Police Officer shall investigate complaints
of potentially dangerous animals and make a determination of the facts. If the
Animal Welfare Supervisor or investigating Police Officer observes an animal,
which is the subject of the complaint, and is witness to life-threatening or
aggressive behavior as set forth in Section
5-75 above, the Animal Welfare Supervisor or investigating Police Officer shall
notify the owner of the potentially dangerous animal of said determination in
writing. Said notification shall provide the owner of said animal written
notification to register the animal with the Animal Welfare Supervisor and to
comply with all the provisions of this article within thirty (30) days. The
Animal Welfare Supervisor shall also provide a copy of the written notice to
the owner of the property, if other than the owner of the animal.
   1.   Appeal. Any person whose animal is determined to be potentially
dangerous by the Animal Welfare Supervisor or investigating Police Officer, may
appeal the determination by filing a written appeal to the Municipal Judge
within fifteen (15) days of receipt of notice that said person's animal has
been declared potentially dangerous.
   2.   Hearing. The Municipal Judge shall hold a hearing within thirty (30)
days of the date of appeal to determine if the animal is potentially dangerous
as defined by this code.
(Ord. No. 613, §2, 02-21-2006)
   Determination. The Municipal Judge shall be empowered to make one of the
following determinations at the conclusion of said hearing:
   a)   That the animal is in fact not potentially dangerous in which event the
Animal Welfare Supervisor or investigating Police Officer shall notify the
appellant in writing of the decision.
   b)   That the animal is, in fact, potentially dangerous.
   3.   Judicial Order. Upon a ruling that the animal is potentially dangerous,
the Judge shall order the animal to be regulated in accordance with this
article and may order the imposition of one or more of the requirements listed
in Section 5-77 of this article within thirty (30) days. The Judge may also
provide an exemption from one or more of those requirements, based on the facts
and circumstances of each case. The Judge's decision shall be final.
   b)   Determination by Judicial Hearing. If the Animal Welfare Supervisor or
investigating Police Officer is unable to make a determination that the animal
is potentially dangerous as defined by this article, the complainant is
authorized to request a hearing before the Municipal Judge.
   1.   Hearing. Upon the receipt of written statement of the complainant that
an animal should be deemed potentially dangerous, the Municipal Judge shall
hold a hearing within thirty (30) days of the date of said statement to
determine if the animal is potentially dangerous as defined by this article.
(Ord. No. 613, §3, 02-21-2006)
   2.   Determination. The Municipal Judge shall be empowered to make one of
the following determinations at the conclusion of said hearing:
   a)   That the animal is in fact not potentially dangerous in which event the
Animal Welfare Supervisor or investigating Police Officer shall notify the
appellant in writing of the decision.
   b)   That the animal is in fact potentially dangerous and should be
regulated in accordance with this article.
   3.   Judicial Order. Upon a ruling that the animal is potentially dangerous,
the Judge shall order the animal to be regulated in accordance with this
article and may order the imposition of one or more of the requirements listed
in Section
5-77 of this article within thirty (30) days. The Judge may also provide an
exemption from one or more of those requirements, based on the facts and
circumstances of each case. The Judge's decision shall be final.
(Ord. No. 607, §4, 08-02-2005)
Sec. 5-77. Requirements for keeping a potentially dangerous animal.
   a)   Confinement. All potentially dangerous animals shall be securely
confined in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed
and muzzled as provided in Subsection 2 below. Such pen, kennel, or structure
must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All structures
used to confine potentially dangerous animals must be locked with a key or
combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such structure
must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the
sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two (2) feet. All
structures erected to house potentially dangerous animals must comply with all
zoning and building regulations of the city. All such structures must be
adequately lighted, ventilated, and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   b)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a potentially dangerous animal
to go outside its kennel or pen unless such animal is securely leashed with a
leash no longer than four (4) feet in length. No person shall permit a
potentially dangerous animal to be kept on a leash or tether outside its kennel
or pen unless a person is in physical control of the leash or tether. Such
animals may not be leashed or tethered to inanimate objects such as trees,
posts, buildings, etc. In addition, all potentially dangerous animals on a
leash or tether outside the animal's kennel must be muzzled by a muzzling
device sufficient to prevent such animal from biting persons, dogs, or cats.
   c)   Sight proof fencing. The yard where a potentially dangerous animal is
kept shall be enclosed with a six-foot high sight proof fence. Said fence shall
be maintained in a strong and sturdy condition at all times so that said
potentially dangerous animal cannot escape from the property. Said fence shall
be maintained free of holes and shall not contain any gap between the fence and
the ground large enough for a human limb or other animal to go through. Said
fence shall also be maintained to prevent another animal from entering the
property where the potentially dangerous animal is kept. Electric fences, if
installed, shall be installed in accordance with applicable building and safety
codes. Electric fences shall not be installed on the top of the fence or be
installed in such a way as to be likely to shock humans on the opposite side of
the fence.
   d)   Signs. Owners, keepers, or holders of potentially dangerous animals
within the city shall within thirty (30) days of notification display in a
prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by the public using
the words "Beware of Potentially Dangerous Animal." In addition, a similar sign
is required to be posted on the kennel or pen of such animal. Signs pursuant to
this section shall be purchased from the City of The Village. The cost of said
signs shall be established by resolution of the Council.
   e)   Insurance. Owners, keepers, or holders of potentially dangerous animals
must, within thirty (30) days of notification, provide proof to the Animal
Welfare Supervisor of public liability insurance in a single incident amount of
one-hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury to or death of any
person or persons or for damage to property owned by any persons which may
result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal. Such
insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the policy will be made
unless ten (10) days written notice is first given to the City of The Village.
   f)   Identification photographs. Owners, keepers, or holders of potentially
dangerous animals must, within thirty (30) days of notification, provide to the
Animal Welfare Supervisor two (2) color photographs of the potentially
dangerous animal clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal.
Said photographs shall be no smaller than 3" by 5" in size.
   g)   Electronic Identification Tag. Owners, keepers, or holders of
potentially dangerous animals must, within thirty (30) days of notification,
have an electronic identification chip installed on the animal's ear. The chip
shall be installed by a Veterinarian licensed in the state of Oklahoma and
shall be readable with the use of an industry standard universal reader.
   h)   Reporting requirements. Owners, keepers, or holders of potentially
dangerous animals must within thirty (30) days of the incident, report the
following information in writing to the Animal Welfare Supervisor as required
hereinafter:
   1.   The removal from the city or death of a potentially dangerous animal;
   2.   The birth of offspring of a potentially dangerous animal;
   3.   The new address of a potentially dangerous animal owner should the
owner move within the corporate city limits.
   i)   Sale or transfer of ownership prohibited. No person shall sell, barter
or in any other way dispose of a potentially dangerous animal within the city
to any person within the city unless the recipient person resides permanently
in the same household and on the same premises as the owner of such animal;
provided that the registered owner of a potentially dangerous animal may sell
or otherwise dispose of a potentially dangerous animal or the offspring of such
animal to persons who do not reside within the city. If a registered owner of a
potentially dangerous animal sells or otherwise disposes of a potentially
dangerous animal or the offspring of such an animal to persons who do not
reside with the City, the owner must inform the Animal Welfare Supervisor
within ten (10) days following the sale or disposition of said animal and the
city, town, county, and state in which the animal will be located following the
sale or disposition.
   j)   Breeding of potentially dangerous animals: It shall be unlawful to
breed any potentially dangerous animal within the city.
   k)   Animals born of registered dogs. Offspring born of potentially
dangerous animals registered with the city must be removed from the city within
eight (8) weeks of the birth of such animal.
   l)   Neutering. Owners, keepers, or holders of potentially dangerous animals
must, within thirty (30) days of notification, have the potentially dangerous
animal neutered. Neutering shall be performed by a Veterinarian licensed in the
State of Oklahoma.
   m)   Annual Registration. Potentially dangerous animals shall be registered
by the owner with the Animal Welfare Supervisor of the City within thirty (30)
days of notification by the Animal Welfare Supervisor that the animal has been
declared potentially dangerous. A potentially dangerous animal shall not be
registered by the Animal Welfare Supervisor if the requirements of this chapter
are not complied with at the time of application. The annual registration fee
shall initially be established at One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) Said
registration fee shall thereafter be established by resolution of the City
Council.
   n)   Obedience/behavioral training. By judicial order, owners, keepers, and
holders of potentially dangerous animals may be required to enroll the
potentially dangerous animal in an obedience or behavioral training program led
by a professionally certified dog trainer or behavioral consultant. All
expenses associated with such program shall be borne by the owner of the
potentially dangerous animal.
   o)   Other. By judicial order, owners, keepers, and holders of potentially
dangerous animals may have imposed on them other remedies or relief as
determined by the Judge to be reasonable and appropriate, based on the facts
and circumstances.
   p)   Failure to comply. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or
holder of a potentially dangerous animal in the city to fail to comply with
requirements and conditions set forth in this article, unless exempted by
judicial order. Any potentially dangerous animal found to be the subject of a
violation of this article shall be subject to immediate seizure and
impoundment. All expenses associated with the impounding including shelter,
food, handling, and veterinary care shall be borne by the owner of such animal
during the period of impoundment. Failure to comply with all the requirements
and conditions set forth in this article within fifteen (15) days of
impoundment will result in the destruction of the animal.
(Ord. No. 607, §4, 08-02-2005)
Sec. 5-78. Responsibility and liability of property owner.
   a)   Insurance. A landowner or property owner that leases, rents, or
otherwise allows an owner of a potentially dangerous animal to keep or harbor
said animal on the landowner's or property owner's premises must, within thirty
(30) days of notification, provide proof to the Animal Welfare Supervisor of
public liability insurance in a single incident amount of One-Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury to or death of any person or persons or
for damage to property owned by any persons which may result from the
ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal. Such insurance policy shall
provide that no cancellation of the policy will be made unless ten (10) days
written notice is first given to the City of The Village.
   b)   Sight proof fencing. A landowner or property owner that leases, rents,
or otherwise allows an owner of a potentially dangerous animal to keep or
harbor said animal on the landowner's or property owner's premises shall,
within thirty (30) days of notification, enclose the yard where a potentially
dangerous animal is kept with a six-foot high sight proof fence. Said fence
shall be maintained in a strong and sturdy condition at all times so that said
potentially dangerous animal cannot escape from the property. Said fence shall
be maintained free of holes and shall not contain any gap between the fence and
the ground large enough for a human limb or other animal to go through. Said
fence shall also be maintained to prevent another animal from entering the
property where the potentially dangerous animal is kept. Electric fences, if
installed, shall be installed in accordance with applicable building and safety
codes. Electric fences shall not be installed on the top of the fence or be
installed in such a way as to be likely to shock humans on the opposite side of
the fence.
   c)   Compliance. A landowner or property owner that leases, rents, or
otherwise allows an owner of a potentially dangerous animal to keep or harbor
said animal on the landowner's or property owner's premises shall be
responsible for ensuring that the lessee, renter, or occupier of said property
complies with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 607, §4, 08-02-2005)
Secs. 5-79-5-99 Reserved.
Division 3. Dangerous Animals, Attacks.
Sec. 5-100. Attacks prohibited.
   a)   On Premises. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or possessor
of an animal to permit said animal to attack any person, dog, or cat upon the
premises of the person, owner, or possessor. It shall be an affirmative defense
to this subsection when the premises where an attack occurs are previously
posted at each entrance to the same with prominent and conspicuous signs
warning all persons in lettering not less than two (2) inches in height, of
such animal. It is also an affirmative defense to this subsection that the use
of such animal to attack any person was necessary to prevent or apprehend a
person engaged in committing an act of violence, robbery, or theft upon said
property.
   b)   Off Premises. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or possessor
of an animal to permit said animal to attack any person, dog, or cat not upon
the premises of such person, owner, or possessor.
   c)   Attack Defined. For the purposes of this section, the word attack shall
mean violent or aggressive physical contact with a person, dog, or cat with the
intent to cause harm or the infliction of serious injury.
   d)   Exclusions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any law
enforcement officer who uses or employs an animal while engaged in law
enforcement activities, nor to any owner, possessor, or keeper whose animal
attacks a person engaged in physically attacking or striking said owner,
possessor, or keeper.
Sec. 5-101. Summons and complaint.
   a)   Any person who witnesses or has personal knowledge that an act or acts
made unlawful by this article have been committed may sign a complaint against
the alleged violator.
   b)   The complainant must provide a sworn complaint to the officer receiving
the complaint containing the following information:
   1.   Name, address, and telephone number of the complainant and other
witnesses to the incident.
   2.   Date, time, and location of the incident or incidents.
   3.   Description of the animal.
   4.   Name, address, and telephone number (if known) of the animal owner.
   5.   If applicable, a statement that the animal attacked the complainant, or
some other person or animal as witnessed by the complainant.
   6.   Other facts and circumstances of the incident.
   c)   Any police officer, animal welfare officer, or code enforcement officer
who is employed by the City is authorized to issue a summons and complaint when
said officer personally observes a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 607, §4, 08-02-2005)
Sec. 5-102. Definition of dangerous animal; harboring unlawful: Impoundment.
   a)   Dangerous Animal Defined. Dangerous animal is defined as an animal,
which, without provocation, attacks and makes physical contact with a person,
dog, or cat with the intent to cause harm or the infliction of serious injury.
   b)   Unlawful to Harbor Dangerous Animal. It shall be unlawful for any
person to harbor, keep, possess, or allow remaining on any premises under his
control within the city any dangerous animal as defined herein.
   c)   Impoundment. It shall be the duty of the Animal Welfare Supervisor or
Police Officer, upon receipt of a verified complaint or allegation of an attack
as outlined in Section 5-100 and Section 5-101, to declare the animal dangerous
and, whereupon, the Animal Welfare Supervisor or Police Officer shall cause the
animal involved to be impounded and humanely euthanized after five (5) days. If
deemed necessary for rabies observation, the destruction of the animal may be
delayed until the required observation period is complete. All expenses
associated with the impoundment including shelter, food, handling, and
veterinary care shall be borne by the owner of the animal. It shall be unlawful
for any person in possession, custody, or control of a dangerous animal to
refuse to relinquish said animal to the custody of the Animal Welfare
Supervisor or Police Officer as required herein.
   d)   Appeal. Within five (5) days of impoundment, the owner of the animal
may request a hearing before the Municipal Judge appealing the impoundment and
determination that the animal is dangerous.
   e)   Hearing. If a hearing is requested as provided herein, the Municipal
Judge, in addition to any hearings, which may be required on criminal charges,
shall hold a hearing within thirty (30) days of the date of appeal to determine
if the animal is dangerous as defined by this article. Said hearing may be held
in conjunction with any criminal proceedings, if so, ordered by the judge, but
in no event shall this delay the hearing on determination of dangerousness.
   f)   Determination. The Municipal Judge shall be empowered to make one of
the following determinations at the conclusion of said hearing:
   1.   That the animal is in fact not dangerous in which event the Animal
Welfare Supervisor shall cause the animal to be released to the owner of the
animal, upon payment by the owner of the expenses outlined in Section 5-102.
   2.   That the animal is or remains potentially dangerous, in which event the
judge shall order the animal to be regulated in accordance the requirements
listed in Section
5-77.
   3.   That the animal is in fact dangerous and ordering it humanely
euthanized.
   4.   That the animal is dangerous but should not be destroyed, in which
event the judge shall order:
   a)   That the owner pay all fees required by Section
5-102, and
   b)   That the animal to be immediately removed from the corporate limits of
the city and not to ever be again allowed within the corporate limits of the
city.
   g)   Appeal to District Court. Owners whose animal is adjudged to be
dangerous at the hearing, and sentence imposed by the Municipal Judge pursuant
to this section, upon written demand, may appeal the judge's decision within
ten (10) days to the district court of the county where a trial in the district
court shall be accorded them de novo.
(Ord. No. 607, §4, 08-02-2005; Ord. No. 613, §4, 02-21-2006)
Sec. 5-103. Penalty and remedies.
   a)   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any provision of
this Chapter shall, upon conviction in municipal court, be fined a sum of not
more than Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($750.00) plus court costs. In
addition to the fine and costs imposed, the court may sentence the defendant to
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days.
   b)   In the event the violation involves a potentially dangerous animal, the
court shall order the registration of the subject potentially dangerous animal
revoked and the animal removed from the city. Should the defendant owners
refuse to remove the animal from the city; the Municipal Judge shall find the
defendant owner in contempt and order the immediate confiscation and
impoundment of the animal. If the owner shall continue to refuse to remove the
animal from the city, the Municipal Judge shall issue any other orders
necessary to carry out the intent of this article. Each day that a violation of
this article continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to the
foregoing penalties, any person who violates this article shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, handling, veterinary care, and testimony
necessitated by the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 607, §4, 08-02-2005)
CHAPTER 6
BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Art. I.      In General, 6-1--6-15
Art. II.      Building Code, §§6-16--6-35
Art. III.      Electricity, § 6-36--6-100
      
Div. 1.   Generally, §§6-36--6-50
      
Div. 2.   Electricians, §§6-51--6-60
      
Div. 3.   Permits and Inspections, §§6-61--6-75
      
Div. 4.   Technical Standards, §§ 6-76--6-100
Art. IV.   Mechanical Systems, §§ 6-101--6-130
      
Div. 1.   Generally, §§ 6-101-6-115
      
Div. 2.   Contractors, §§ 6-116--6-130
Art. V.      Plumbing; Fuel & Gas, §§ 6-131--6-160
      
Div. 1.   Generally, §§ 6-131--6-145
      
Div. 2.   Plumbers, §§ 6-146--6-160
Art. VI.   Miscellaneous Building Provisions, §§ 6-161--6-224
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 6-1--6-15. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. BUILDING CODE
Sec. 6-16. International Residential Code-Adopted.
That a certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk of the City of The Village, being marked and designated as the
International Residential Code, 2018 edition, including Appendix Chapters A, B,
C, G, H, J, M & N, as published by the International Code Council, be and is
hereby adopted as the Residential Code of the City of The Village, in the State
of Oklahoma for regulating and governing the construction, alteration,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, location, removal and
demolition of detached one and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family
dwellings (townhouses) not more than three stories in height with separate
means of egress as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Residential Code on file in the office
of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this ordinance, with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes, if any, prescribed in Section
6-17 of this Chapter.
(Ord. No. 660, §1, 09-06-2011)
Sec. 6-17. Same-Amendment.
The International Residential Code, 2018 Edition is hereby revised as follows:
The official amendments and rules to the International Residential Code®, 2018
Edition (IRC®, 2018) 748:20-5-1 through 748:20-5-28 as adopted by the Oklahoma
Uniform Building Code Commission are hereby adopted by reference.
Section R101.1. Insert: [City of The Village]
Table R301.2(1) Insert: [Ground Snow Load-10, Wind Speed 115 mph, Topographic
Effects-No, Seismic Design-C, Weathering-Moderate, Frost Depth- 18", Termite-
Moderate to Heavy, Winter Design Temp-13, Ice Barrier Required-No, Mean Annual
Temp-60]
Section P2603.5.1 Insert: [Eighteen (18") inches]
(Ord. No. 437, § 1, 3-6-90; Ord. No. 490, § 1, 9-7-93; Ord. No. 531, § 2, 9-17-
96; 2002 City Code; 2004 City Code; 2006 City Code; 2010 City Code; Ord. No
660, § 1, 09-06-2011; Ord. No 667, §1 §2, 10-18-2011;2020 City Code)
Cross-references--Drainage and flood control,
Ch. 9; fire prevention and protection.
Ch. 10; cement contractors, §
11-31 et seq.; construction equipment on residential streets, §
13-217; signs,
Ch. 20; zoning,
Ch. 24.
State law reference--General authority to regulate buildings, 11 O.S. §§ 22-
113, 43-102.
Sec. 6-18. Variances or appeals.
   Appeals from decisions of city officials or for variances from the strict
application of this article shall be handled in the same manner as provided in
section
24-44 for appeals under the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. No. 333, § 9, 10-18-83)
Sec. 6-19. Fees.
   (a)   No permit as required by the building code shall be issued until the
requisite fee has been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be approved
until the additional fee, based on the size of the building or structure, shall
have been paid.
   (b)   In case of abandonment or discontinuance, the cost of work performed
under a permit may be estimated, an adjustment of the fee made, and the portion
of the fee for uncompleted work returned to the permit holder, provided that no
refund of a prescribed minimum fee shall be made. If such discontinuance is due
to revocation of permit, a similar adjustment and return may be made; provided
that no refund shall be made until all penalties incurred or imposed by due
authority have been collected. After such a refund has been made no work shall
be resumed until a new application has been made and a new permit has been
issued.
(Ord. No. 301, § 5, 9-21-82)
Sec. 6-20. Smoke detectors.
   (a)   As used in this section, the following terms have the definitions
indicated:
   (1)   Apartment means any rental dwelling unit in a structure containing
more than two (2) dwelling units.
   (2)   Residential Dwelling Unit means a space for human habitation providing
complete independent living facilities for one (1) or more persons including
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   (b)   Smoke detector means a smoke sensitive warning device, which is
   (1)   Designed to detect visible or invisible products of combustion;
   (2)   Designed with an alarm audible to the rooms it serves;
   (3)   Powered by either battery, alternating current, or other power source;
   (4)   Tested and listed for use as a smoke detector by a recognized testing
laboratory.
   (c)   All existing apartment dwelling units constructed prior to February 2,
1982, shall be retrofitted to provide a minimum of one (1) approved smoke
detector installed in a manner and location approved by the fire chief or his
representative. All apartment dwelling units constructed after February 2,
1982, shall provide a minimum of one (1) approved smoke detector installed in a
manner and location approved by the fire chief or his representative.
   (d)   Beginning November 21, 2006, all new construction or remodeling of
residential dwellings, which require a building permit, shall include the
installation of smoke detectors in all bedrooms and paths of egress. Such smoke
detectors shall be hard-wired and have battery back-up.
   (e)   The smoke detector shall be provided, installed, and maintained in
good working order by the owner or occupant of the dwelling unit.
(Ord. No. 295, §§ 2--4, 2-2-82; Ord. No. 537, §1, 10-21-97)
*Cross reference--Ord. No. 491, § 10-1.
Sec. 6-21. Adoption of International Building Code.
A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk
of the City of The Village, being marked and designated as the International
Building Code, 2018 edition, including Appendix Chapters H & J, as published by
the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Building Code
of the City of The Village in the State of Oklahoma for regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition
of such structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Code on file in
the office of the City of The Village are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
a part hereof, as if fully set out.
(Ord. No. 661, §1, 09-06-2011)
Sec. 6-22. Amendments to the International Building Code 2018 Edition.
The International Building Code, 2018 Edition is hereby revised as follows:
The official amendments and rules to the International Building Code®, 2018
Edition (IBC®, 2018) 748:20-1-1 through 748:20-1-19 as adopted by the Oklahoma
Uniform Building Code Commission are hereby adopted by reference.
Section 101.1. Insert: City of The Village, Oklahoma.
Section 107.1: General. Submittal documents consisting of construction
documents, statement of special inspections, geotechnical report and other data
shall be submitted in two or more sets with each permit application. The
construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design professional as
defined by the State Architectural and Registered Interior Designers Act. O.S.
Title 59, Section 46.1 et seq. Where special conditions exist, the building
official is authorized to require additional construction documents to be
prepared by a registered design professional. Exception: The building official
is authorized to waive the submission of construction documents and other data
not required to be prepared by a registered design professional if it is found
that the nature of the work applied for is such that review of construction
documents is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code.
Section 1612.3. Insert: City of The Village, Oklahoma.
Section 1612.3. Insert: [August 13, 2012]
Section 423.1 of the International Building Code, 2018 Edition is amended to
read as follows:
"General. In addition to other applicable requirements in this code, storm
shelters shall be constructed in accordance with ICC-500, FEMA 320, FEMA 361,
or other equivalent approved engineered system."
Section 423.2 of the International Building Code, 2018 is revised by modifying
the definition of Storm Shelter to read as follows:
"STORM SHELTER. A building, structure, or portion(s) thereof, constructed in
accordance with the standards listed in the ICC 500 and designated for use
during a severe windstorm event, such as a hurricane or tornado. "
Section 423 of the International Building Code, 2018 Edition is amended by
adding a new subsection 423.3 as follows:
"Section 423.4 Educational Group E Occupancies. All new buildings or structures
incorporating an Educational Group E occupancy use, shall have a safe room(s)
with an occupancy load equivalent to or greater than the number of students and
faculty the building or structure is designed for. For the purpose of this
section, a new building or structure shall include any building addition that
is more than 50% the size of the building or structure to be enlarged.
Exception: The Building Official is authorized to waive this requirement for
new buildings or structures that are part of a school campus having safe rooms
with an occupancy load equivalent to or greater than the total number of
students, faculty, and staff of the school."
Section 903.2.7 (4) of the International Building Code, 2018 Edition is amended
to read as follows:
(4)    A Group M occupancy is used for the display and sale of upholstered
furniture exceeds 5,000 square feet (454 square meters).
(Ord. No. 661, §1, 09-06-2011; Ord. No. 677, §1, 10-16-2012; 2014 City Code;
2018 City Code; 2022 city Code)
Sec. 6-23. International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition Adopted.
A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk
of the City of The Village, Oklahoma being marked and designated as the
International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition, including Appendix
Chapters, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Existing Building Code of the City of The Village in the State
of Oklahoma for regulating and governing the repair, alteration, change of
occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings, including historic
buildings, as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Existing Building Code on file in the
office of the City of The Village are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this Code, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section
6-24.
(Ord. No. 661, §1, 09-06-2011)
Sec. 6-24. International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, Amendments.
The International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition is hereby revised as
follows:
The official amendments and rules to the International Exiting Building Code®,
2018 Edition (IBEC®, 2018) 748:20-7-1 through 748:20-7-9 as adopted by the
Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission are hereby adopted by reference.
Section 101.1 Insert: City of The Village, Oklahoma.
(Ord. No. 661, §1, 09-06-2011; 2018 City Code; 2022 City Code)
Secs. 6-25--6-35. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. ELECTRICITY
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 6-36. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Electrical apprentice means any person sixteen (16) years of age or older
whose principal occupation is the learning of and assisting in the installation
of electrical work under the direct supervision of a licensed journeyman
electrician or electrical contractor.
   Electrical contractor means any person skilled in the planning,
superintending and practical installation of electrical facilities who is
familiar with the laws, rules and regulations governing such work. "Electrical
contractor" also means any person performing skills of an electrical contractor
or an electrician or the business of contracting or furnishing labor or labor
and materials for the installation, repair, maintenance, or renovation of
electrical facilities according to the provisions of the Electrical License
Act.
   Electrical facilities means all wiring, fixtures, appurtenances, and
appliances for, and in connection with, a supply of electricity within or
adjacent to any building, structure or conveyance on the premises but not
including the connection with a power supply meter or other power supply
source.
State law reference--Authority to regulate electrical work, 59 O.S. § 1693.
   Electrical inspector means the building inspector of the city or any of his
duly authorized assistants.
   Electric wiring means the installation of electrical raceways, conductors or
apparatus of any kind used, or to be used, in or on any building for the
transmission and distribution of electric current for electric light, heat or
power, or non-portable electrical fixtures and apparatus of any nature to be
connected to light, heat or power service; provided however, that the words
"electric wiring," "electrical equipment," and "apparatus" shall not be deemed
to include or refer to service lines, apparatus, and equipment for the sale,
distribution, and regulation of electricity and remaining the property of the
electric service company, or for telephone, telegraph, or other communication
purposes, or in connection therewith.
   Journeyman electrician means any person other than an electrical contractor
who engages in the actual installation, alteration, repair, or renovation of
electrical facilities unless specifically exempted by the provisions of the
Electrical License Act.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-1)
State law reference--Electrical License Act, 59 O.S. § 1680 et seq.
Sec. 6-37. Exemptions.
   The provisions of sections 6-51, 6-52 and 6-53 shall not be construed as
affecting or applying to any work done by or for any telephone, telegraph, or
other communication company in the installation, repair, or maintenance of
wiring or other electrical apparatus, equipment or device to be used
exclusively in connection with its business, or as applying to any work done by
or for any public utility electric service company operating under a franchise
from the city or any central station powerhouse, substation, shop, underground
or overhead distribution system, or any other electrical apparatus, wiring,
equipment or devices belonging to such service company and used exclusively in
the operation of its business.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-26)
Sec. 6-38. Enforcement, correction of dangerous conditions, etc.
   (a)   The electrical inspector shall be charged with the duty of enforcing
all the provisions of this article relating to electric wiring and the
construction, installation, repair, alteration, and maintenance of electric
wiring, apparatus, and fixtures, and with the inspection of the same. The
electrical inspector shall inspect, or re-inspect all overhead, underground,
and interior wires and apparatus conducting electrical current for any of the
purposes set forth in this article. When such conductors or apparatus are found
to be unsafe to life or property, he shall notify the person owning, using, or
operating the same, to place them in a safe condition within forty-eight (48)
hours and it shall be such person's duty to do so. If the owner, user or
operator of such defective wiring or equipment shall refuse or fail to comply
with the requirements of the electrical inspector and correct all defects as
directed within the specified time, it shall be the duty of the electrical
inspector to notify, in writing, the person furnishing the electric current to
such defective wiring or equipment, to cease to supply electric current to
same. Upon receipt of such notice, the service company, firm or individual
furnishing electric current to such defective wiring or equipment shall, within
twenty-four (24) hours disconnect the service or feed wires and cease to supply
current to the defective installation until the defects have been corrected.
When it has been determined by the electrical inspection that the public
safety, health, or welfare may be unduly jeopardized by allowing time to comply
with the requirements of the electrical inspector, it shall be the duty of the
inspector to take steps to immediately terminate electrical service to the
unsafe facility.
   (b)   When any portion or all of the wiring in or on any building or
premises is ordered changed for any reason, the electrical inspector shall
leave attached to the main switch or service equipment a tag or label showing
the date of the order and a memorandum of the correction to be made, and the
signature of the authority making the order.
   (c)   The electrical inspector shall institute, by and with the advice of
the city attorney, such prosecutions as may be necessary against any violators
of any ordinance, with the enforcement of which he is charged.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-3)
Sec. 6-39. Variances or appeals.
   Appeals from decisions of city officials or for variances from the strict
application of this article shall be handled in the same manner as provided in
section
24-44 for appeals under the zoning ordinance.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-4)
Sec. 6-40. Civil liability.
   This article shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person, partnership or corporation owning, operating, or
installing electric wires, appliances, apparatus, construction, or equipment,
for the damage to property or persons injured by any defect therein, nor shall
the city or any agent thereof be deemed to assume any such liability by reason
of the inspection authorized herein or a certificate of inspection issued by
the electrical inspector.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-25)
Sec. 6-41. Disconnection of power.
   (a)   All persons supplying electricity shall, upon written notice by the
electrical inspector, disconnect from any such circuit, including main service
wires, branch feeder wires or distribution, as designated by the notice, and
shall not reconnect to the installation except upon written notice from the
electrical inspector.
   (b)   Every person owning or controlling electrical wires and apparatus for
the transmission of light, heat or power, shall in time of fire or in case of
severe storm or any other emergency wherein lives or property of the citizens
of the city may be endangered by the operation of such wires and apparatus,
upon notice by the electrical inspector, the mayor, the city clerk, the chief
of the fire department or chief of police, disconnect such dangerous wires from
current or service as are designated by said official.
(Code 1976, §§ 3-2-20, 3-2-22)
Sec. 6-42. Relocated buildings.
   When a building or portion of a building, containing electric wiring is
moved from its foundation, the owner shall have the electric wiring and
equipment in the building inspected and repaired where necessary, providing
proper grounding wires, etc. The electrical contractor shall obtain a wiring
permit and request inspection.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-24)
Secs. 6-43--6-51. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. ELECTRICIANS
Sec. 6-52. Registration of electrical contractors and journeymen electricians.
   No electrical contractor or journeyman electrician shall operate in the city
without registering with the city clerk. Registration shall be valid until June
30 of each year and must be renewed. A fee in the amount established by
resolution shall be paid to the city clerk prior to the issuance of a
registration certificate.
(Code 1976, §§ 3-2-8--3-2-10) State law reference--Registration of
electricians, 59 O.S. § 1696.
Sec. 6-53. Bond.
   Before obtaining a license under this division a person shall file with the
city clerk proof that he or she has complied with the bonding and insurance
requirements of the Oklahoma Electrical Licensing Act.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-12; Ord. No. 404, § 1, 2-2-88)
Secs. 6-54--6-60. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
Sec. 6-61. Permits generally.
   (a)   No electric wiring shall be installed, altered, or changes made in
existing wiring in or on any building without a permit being issued by the city
clerk. No permit shall be issued except to a registered electrical contractor,
or to a certified maintenance electrician in the employ of the owner of the
building or buildings on which such electric wiring work is to be performed.
Permits shall not be necessary for maintenance work or for repair work if
wiring is not altered or rearranged.
   (b)   The electrical inspector may, if he deems it necessary, require or
demand from the electrical contractor a set of plans and specifications of any
job, in order that the electrical inspector may check same to determine if the
plans and specifications comply with this article. The electrical inspector
must render a decision on such plans and specification within twenty-four (24)
hours after receiving same.
   (c)   The electrical inspector may refuse to issue a permit if, in his
judgment, the wiring done or proposed to be done is unsafe or not in accordance
with the provisions of this article.
   (d)   In order to obtain a permit for the installation of electric wiring,
the fee established by resolution shall be paid to the city clerk.
   (e)   Any person engaged in the business of electrical construction and the
installation of wiring and apparatus for electric light, heat, or power, who
shall fail to correct promptly any work done by him contrary to this article,
after having been notified thereof by the electrical inspector, shall not be
issued any further permits until such defect has been corrected.
Sec. 6-62. Inspections generally.
   (a)   The electrical inspector must inspect promptly, all work for which
electrical permits have been issued. After inspecting any electric wiring, the
electrical inspector shall leave notice in the form of a tag or label attached
to the service entrance switch or branch cabinet. The notice shall clearly
state whether the wiring is approved or is to be kept open for correction, and
no person shall seal or in any manner conceal any electric wiring until such
wiring has been approved. It shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to
make such partial inspection as is required to permit the continuous
construction of the building. If, in any case, the wiring is in such a position
as to interfere with the completion of the building as called for by the plans,
the electrical contractor must be notified to change the same. Proper
conveniences such as ladders must be provided inspectors on work to be
inspected by the person desiring the inspection. On all cases, on completion of
the "rough-in" job, a final "rough-in" inspection must be called for.
   (b)   The rough in of each job shall include the installation of all
equipment in main and branch cabinets, and the installation of all switches,
receptacles, finish plates, bells, push buttons and transformers. All rough-in
wiring shall be tested, circuits made up, splices soldered and taped, and
wiring completed. From each active outlet box, one pair of wires not less than
eight (8) inches long shall be left for the fixture connection.
   (c)   A "finish" permit indicates that, upon inspection, the work will be
found in condition for a service connection or a final approval. The person who
does the last work on the job shall assure himself that such condition exists
by testing each circuit, socket, and receptacle.
   (d)   It shall be the duty of the electrical contractor to call in, or have
called in, or otherwise advise the city clerk, of the date of the completion of
the work involved subject to inspection under the terms of this section and
that such work is ready for inspection. Such information must be given to the
city clerk within five (5) days after the completion of the work to be
inspected.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-16)
Sec. 6-63. Covering or concealing switches or outlets.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any plasterer, carpenter, or other
workman to cover or conceal with plaster, building board, or any other
materials, any switch or other electrical outlet.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-38)
Sec. 6-64. Certificate of inspection--Generally.
   (a)   On the completion of the work covered by an electrical permit in
accordance with all ordinances and laws, and after inspection and approval by
the electrical inspector, the electrical inspector shall issue a certificate of
inspection. In this certificate, the electrical inspector shall certify that
the work is in accordance with this article. This certificate shall be issued
to the electric service company and shall be their authority to supply electric
service to the premises.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any electric light or Power Company, or any
supplier of electricity for light, heat, or power, to make any electrical
connection to any building or electric wiring or apparatus until a certificate,
stating that the electric wiring has been approved, or written permit
authorizing connection has been issued by the electrical inspector.
(Code 1976, §§ 3-2-17, 3-2-20)
Sec. 6-65. Same--Temporary certificate.
   When, for good and sufficient cause, it is necessary to have the electricity
on any installation before final certificate can be issued, the electrical
inspector may, if the parts to which the current is applied are in a safe and
satisfactory condition, issue a temporary certificate. Whenever a temporary
service is installed satisfactory to the electrical inspector, the electric
service company will not be permitted to make a connection to permanent service
until after a final permanent certificate has been issued. Before a temporary
certificate is issued, the person requesting the same shall pay to the city the
fee established by resolution. A temporary certificate shall be in force for
thirty (30) days from its issue, and if, at the end of thirty (30) days, the
installation is still incomplete, another temporary certificate shall be taken
out for the next thirty (30) days, and each succeeding thirty (30) days
thereafter, and for each term so requested, the required fee shall be paid.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-18)
Sec. 6-66. Same--Denial.
   The electrical inspector shall refuse to issue a certificate of inspection
for any addition or extension to any electric wiring in or on any building
wherein the existing wiring is in an unsafe condition.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-19)
Sec. 6-76. National Electric Code, ICC Electrical Administrative Provisions -
Adopted.
The National Electric Code, 2017 Edition and the International Code Council
Electrical Administrative Provisions 2017 Edition, are adopted by reference as
if set out at length in this article.
Sec. 6-77. Amendments.
The official amendments and rules to the National Electrical Code®, 2017
Edition (NEC®, 2017) 748:20-9-1 through 748:20-9-8 as adopted by the Oklahoma
Uniform Building Code Commission are hereby adopted by reference.
(Code 1976, § 3-2-36; Ord. No. 472, § 1, 7-7-92; Ord. No. 490, § 2, 9-7-93;
Ord. No. 531, §3, 9-17-96; 2002 City Code; 2004 City Code; 2006 City Code; 2010
City Code; 2012 City Code; 2014 City Code; 2018 City Code; 2022 City Code)
Secs. 6-77--6-100. Reserved.
DIVISION 4. TECHNICAL STANDARDS
ARTICLE IV. MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 6-101. International Mechanical Code - Adopted.
A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk
of the City of The Village, being marked and designated as the International
Mechanical Code, 2018 , including Appendix A, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Mechanical Code of the City of
The Village, in the State of Oklahoma regulating and governing the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
mechanical systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Mechanical Code on file in
the office of the City of The Village are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
a part hereof, as if fully set out in this ordinance, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 663, §1, 09-06-2011)
Sec. 6-102. International Mechanical Code, Amendments.
The International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition is hereby revised as follows:
The official amendments and rules to the International Mechanical Code®, 2018
Edition (IMC®, 2018) 748:20-13-1 through 748:20-13-11 as adopted by the
Oklahoma Uniform Building Code Commission are hereby adopted by reference.
Section 101.1. Insert: [City of The Village]
Section 106.5.2. Insert: [The fees for all mechanical work shall be as
established by resolution of the City Council]
Section 106.5.3. Insert: [As per City Code section 6-19 (a)]
Section 108.4. Insert: [Class B, $200.00. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense]
Section 108.5. Insert: [[Class B, $200.00. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense]
(Ord. No. 442, 5-1-90; Ord. No. 490, § 3, 9-7-93; Ord. No. 531, §5, 9-17-96;
2002 City Code; Ord. 663, §1, 09-06-2011; 2018 City Code; 2022 City Code)
Sec. 6-103. Variances or appeals.
   Appeals from decisions of city officials or for variances from the strict
application of this article shall be handled in the same manner as provided in
section
24-44 for appeals under the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. No. 333, § 9, 10-18-83)
Secs. 6-104--6-115. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. CONTRACTORS
Sec. 6-116. Definition.
   In this division "contractor" means a person who engages in the business of
installing, maintaining, or repairing heating or cooling devices regulated by
the provisions of this article.
Sec. 6-117. Registration.
   No person shall engage in business or work in the city as a contractor or
Journeyman or Apprentice as provided herein without registering with the city.
Prior to the issuance of the license, a fee in the amount established by
resolution shall be paid to the city clerk. Registration shall expire on June
30 of each year, unless sooner suspended or revoked by the City Council for
cause.
(Ord. No. 517, §2, 6-20-95; 2004 City Code)
Sec. 6-118. Bond.
Before obtaining a license under this division a person shall file with the
city clerk proof that he or she has complied with the bonding and insurance
requirements of the Oklahoma Mechanical Licensing Act.
(Ord. No. 403, § 1, 2-2-88)
Secs. 6-119--6-130. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. PLUMBING; FUEL & GAS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 6-131. International Plumbing Code - Adopted.
A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk
of the City of The Village, being marked and designated as the International
Plumbing Code, 2018, including Appendix E, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the City of The
Village in the State of Oklahoma regulating and governing the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing
systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Plumbing Code on file in the office of
the City of The Village are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this ordinance, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 664, §1, 09-06-2011)
Sec. 6-132. International Plumbing Code - Amendments.
The International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition is hereby revised as follows:
The official amendments and rules to the International Plumbing Code®, 2018
(IPC®,2018) 748:20-15-1 through 748:20-15-17 as adopted by the Oklahoma Uniform
Building Code Commission are hereby adopted by reference
Section 101.1. Insert: City of The Village, Oklahoma.
Section 106.6.2. Insert: [Permit fees for all plumbing work shall be
established by resolution of the city council]
Section 106.6.3. Insert: [As per City Code section 6-19 (a)]
Section 108.4. Insert: [Class B, $200.00. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offence]
Section 108.5. Insert: [$200.00]
Section 305.4.1. Insert: [Eighteen (18") inches]
Section 903.1. Insert: [Twelve (12") inches].
(Ord. 664, §1, 09-06-2011; 2018 City Code)
Sec. 6-133. International Fuel and Gas Code, 2018 adopted.
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
CITY CLERK of THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE, being marked and designated as the
International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition, including Appendix chapters, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Fuel Gas Code of the CITY OF THE VILLAGE, in the State of OKLAHOMA for
regulating and governing fuel gas systems and gas-fired appliances as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Fuel Gas Code on file in the office of the CITY
CLERK are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes,
if any, prescribed in Section
6-134 of this Chapter.
Sec. 6-134. International Fuel and Gas Code, 2018 Edition Amendments.
The International Fuel and Gas Code, 2018 Edition is hereby by amended as
follows:
The official amendments and rules to the International Fuel and Gas Code®, 2018
(IFGC®, 2018) 748:20-11-1 through 748:20-11-10 as adopted by the Oklahoma
Uniform Building Code Commission are hereby adopted by reference.
Section 101.1. Insert [City of The Village]
Section 106.6.2. Insert: [Permit fees for all fuel and gas work shall be
established by resolution of the City Council)
Section 106.6.3. Insert: [As per City Code section 6-19 (a)]
Section 108.4. Insert [Class B, $200.00. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.]
Section 108.5. Insert: [$200.00]
Sec. 6-135. Variances or appeals.
   Appeals from decision of city officials or for variances from the strict
application of this article shall be handled in the same manner as provided in
section
24-44 for appeals under the zoning ordinance.
Secs. 6-136--6-145. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. PLUMBERS
Sec. 6-146. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Journeyman plumber means any person, other than a plumbing contractor who
engages in or works at the actual installation, alteration, repair and/or
renovation of plumbing.
   Master plumber means a plumbing contractor.
   Plumber's apprentice means any person sixteen (16) years of age or over who,
as his principal occupation, is engaged in learning and assisting in the
installation of plumbing under the direct supervision of a journeyman plumber
or plumbing contractor.
   Plumbing means:
   (1)   All piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for, and in
connection with a supply of water within or adjacent to any building,
structure, or conveyance, on the premises and to the connection with a water
main or other source of supply;
   (2)   All piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for sanitary
drainage or storm drainage facilities including venting systems for such
facilities, within or adjacent to any building, structure, or conveyance, on
the premises and to the connection with a public disposal system or other
acceptable terminal;
   (3)   The installation, repair, maintenance and renovation of all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a supply of water, or for the
disposal of wastewater, liquid waste, or sewage within or adjacent to any
building, structure, or conveyance, on the premises and to the source of supply
of water or point of disposal of wastes.
   Plumbing contractor means any person skilled in the planning, superintending
and practical installation of plumbing and who is familiar with the laws,
ordinances, rules, and regulations governing the same. This definition may be
construed to mean any person who has qualified and is licensed under state law
as a plumbing contractor, who may engage in the business of plumbing, or the
business of contracting to do, or furnish labor and/or labor and materials for
the installation, repair, maintenance, or renovation of plumbing.
   Registrant means any person holding a journeyman plumber's or plumbing
contractor's license issued by the state commissioner of health and who is
registered as such with the city.
(Code 1976, § 3-6-1)
Sec. 6-147 Reserved.
Sec. 6-148. License and registration.
   (a)   No person shall work at the trade of journeyman plumber, plumber's
apprentice, or engage in the business of plumbing contractor in this city,
unless he holds a valid, un-revoked and un-expired license as a journeyman
plumber or plumbing contractor issued by the state commissioner of health, and
until he shall have been registered with the city. No person shall be allowed
to register unless he presents a valid state license and pays a fee in the
amount established by resolution.
   (b)   Registration shall expire on June 30 of each year and such
registration may be renewed upon application and payment of fees within thirty
(30) days preceding or following June 30 of each year.
   (c)   Licenses purchased between July 1 and December 31 shall be for the
full amount of the annual license as established by resolution of the Council.
Licenses purchased between January 1 and June 30 shall be prorated according to
the following table:
Renewal Month   Fraction of Annual License Fee
January         6/12 or .5000
February         5/12 or .4166
March            4/12 or .3333
April            3/12 or .2500
May            2/12 or .1666
June            1/12 or .0833
(Code 1976, §§ 3-6-3, 3-6-4; Ord. No. 517, §3, 6-20-95; Code 2008)
State law reference--Registration of plumbers, 59 O.S. § 1020.
(Code 1976, § 3-6-5)
Secs. 6-149--6-160. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 6-161. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Accessory building means a building customarily incidental and appropriate and
subordinate to the principal use of land or buildings located upon the same
premises. Accessory buildings include, but are not limited to, carports,
storage buildings, temporary or portable buildings, detached garages, cabanas,
gazebos, detached covered patios, and tornado shelters.
Accessory structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground but shall not include any accessory building
as defined herein which is subordinate to the principal use of the property
upon which it is located. Accessory structures include, but are not limited to,
wind generation towers or structures, alternative energy devices, radio or
television transmission or reception towers, satellite reception antennas,
swimming pools, flagpoles, basketball goals, and retaining walls.
Brick means a solid masonry unit, not less than seventy-five (75) percent
solid. The word "brick" without qualification indicates its composition is
primarily clay, shale, or a mixture thereof and that these ingredients have
been fixed together as a result of exposure to heat.
Carport means a permanent, roofed building, which is permanently open on at
least two (2) sides and is designed for or occupied by private passenger
vehicles.
Exposed aggregate means masonry-like material composed of roughly shaped
stones, well bonded without regularity to panels or walls of a concrete-like
material.
Front building line means a line extending from side property line to side
property line and being the minimum horizontal distance between the front
property line and the front of the main building or any projections thereof
other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed porches.
Masonry shall have the same meaning provided in
Chapter 24, Section
24-1 of this code.
Permittee means any person to whom an accessory structure permit or building
permit has been duly issued, or the successor in title to the property on which
a duly permitted accessory structure or building is located.
Temporary or portable building means a building not permanently attached to a
concrete slab or foundation and not intended for residential occupancy, but
which is for accessory or incidental purposes.
Tile means a ceramic surface unit, made of clay or mixture of clay and other
ceramic materials, having either glazed or unglazed surface.
Total land area of the lot means the land area sought to be improved or
developed which is the subject of the building permit application.
(Code 1976, §4-2-1(b); Ord. No. 333, §1, 10-18-83; Ord. No. 506 § 2, 9-20-94;
Ord. No. 740, §1, 10-15-2018)
Sec. 6-162. Building material requirements for exterior walls.
Buildings shall be designed and constructed in accordance with applicable
provisions of
Chapter 24 of this code.
(Ord. No. 333, §1, 10-18-83; Ord. No. 506 § 2, 9-20-94; Ord. No. 740, §2, 10-
15-2018)
Sec. 6-163. Zoning Review and approval of plans by planning and zoning
commission and city council.
All plans for the new construction of, or addition to buildings classified with
respect to use or occupancy as assembly, business, educational, institutional,
mercantile, or mixed-use as provided by the International Building Code adopted
by the City shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for
zoning, site, architectural design, and landscaping review and recommendation.
All such recommendations must be submitted to the City Council for final
approval. This section shall not apply to commercial Planned Unit Developments
that are built within two (2) years of approval and provided that the
applicable Planned Unit Development Design Statement provides an approved site
plan, approved architectural design and approved landscaping plan. All other
building permit requests must be submitted to the building inspector for
approval.
Sec. 6-164. Building permit.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or permit the change in
the use of land or buildings or to erect, alter, move, or improve any building
or accessory building until a building permit has been obtained from the
building inspector.
   (b)   An application for a building permit shall be made upon a form
furnished by the city. An application fee in the amount established by
resolution shall be submitted along with the application. The following
information shall accompany the application:
   1)   A plot plan, drawn to scale of one (1) inch equals twenty (20) feet,
showing the exact size, shape, and dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the
exact size and location on the lot of all existing buildings and structures,
and the exact size and location on the lot of the building proposed to be
repaired, altered, erected, or moved, and the size, arrangements, number of
parking stalls, movement of vehicles and ingress and egress drives for all off-
street parking and loading facilities.
   2)   A declaration of the existing and intended use of each existing and
proposed building on the lot and the number of families and housekeeping units
which each existing building accommodates and which each existing and proposed
building is designed to accommodate;
   3)   A survey prepared by a licensed surveyor registered in the state of the
boundaries of the lot on which the improvement is proposed to be located;
   4)   Additional information relating to the proposed improvement needed to
determine compliance with this chapter.
   5)   Before beginning construction pursuant to an approved building permit:
   (a)   The applicant or applicant's designee shall provide on forms provided
by the City a list of contractors and subcontractors for the construction
project and a list of suppliers of all building materials and equipment to be
delivered to the construction site.
   (b)   The applicant or applicant's designee shall notify contractors,
subcontractors and building material suppliers for the construction project
that the project is located in The Village and shall provide the same with The
Village Sales Tax Reporting Code. The notification form used to notify
contractors, subcontractors, and suppliers pursuant to this subsection shall be
provided by the City and shall be signed as received by each contractor,
subcontractor and building material supplier for the project and returned to
the City.
   6)   If a complete list of contractors, subcontractors, or suppliers
pursuant to subsection (5) above, cannot be provided before construction
begins, the applicant or applicant's designee shall provide the forms required
by subsections (5) (a) and (5) (b) to the City as soon as practicable
thereafter.
   7)   The Building Inspector shall be authorized to issue stop work orders,
suspend inspections and/or withhold the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy
and Compliance for the construction project until the forms required pursuant
to subsections (5)(a) and (5)(b) above have been provided to the City as
required herein. (Ord. No. 640 §1, 03-03-2009)
   8)   No permit shall be issued unless the proposed work complies with all
applicable ordinances.
(Code 1976, §12-2-1; Ord. No. 257, §§ 1, 2, 6-5-79; Ord. No. 314, §§ 1, 2, 11-
18-82; Ord. No. 453, § 1, 3-19-91; Ord. No. 506, § 2, 9-20-94; Code 2008; Ord.
No. 640 §1, 03-03-2009)
Sec. 6-165. Permit for accessory structures.
   (a)   No person shall place, erect, or construct any accessory structure on
any property in the city without having first obtained an accessory structure
permit, therefore. Such permit shall be issued by the city only upon
satisfaction of the provisions hereof, including evidence of compliance with
the standards in this chapter sufficient to obtain the permits required there
under.
   (b)   An application shall be submitted on a form prescribed by the city,
providing such information as is required, which shall include, in the minimum:
   (1)   The name of property owner, the name of applicant, and the address or
location of proposed structure.
   (2)   A description of the proposed structure, providing details of
construction, components, and proposed attachments to the ground or other
basis;
   (3)   A plot plan, in a scale of one (1) inch equals twenty (20) feet,
showing the boundaries of the property on which emplacement is proposed, the
precise location of the structure to all buildings and other structures on the
property, and to the property lines;
   (4)   For structures, which contain or involve electrical wiring, a plan in
the form prescribed by the National Electric Code as adopted by the city,
giving all information required.
   (c)   An application fee in the amount established by resolution shall be
submitted along with the application.
   (d)   Whenever, in the opinion of the city, any structure permitted under
this division is found to be in a condition which indicates noncompliance with
the provisions of this chapter or any other chapter of this code, then in that
event the city shall notify the permittee in writing of such defect, giving
permittee fifteen (15) days from the date of notification to correct the noted
deficiencies. If, at the expiration of said fifteen (15) days, noncompliance
still exists, then the city may seek revocation of the permit by action of the
city council at a regularly scheduled city council meeting, the date and time
of which shall be provided the permittee by certified or registered mail. If
the city council finds, based upon the city's and permittee's evidence, that
any noncompliance exists, then the council may order any corrective action
deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Should the permittee fail to comply
with the directive of the city council, or if the council should find the
condition to be a hazard to life or property, then the council may declare same
a public nuisance and order abatement as in the manner of law provided for the
abatement of public nuisances. For purposes of this section, any successor in
title to the accessory structure permitted or to the property upon which such
accessory structure is located shall be deemed to be the permittee.
(Ord. No. 333, §§ 4, 5, 8, 10-18-83; Ord. No. 506, § 2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 6-166. Certificate of occupancy and compliance.
   (a)   No land shall be occupied or used, and no building erected or
structurally altered shall be occupied or used, in whole or in part, for any
purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy and compliance is issued
by the building inspector, stating that the building use complies with the
provisions of the building permit and all applicable building, housing, health,
fire protection and zoning ordinances of the city. No change of use shall be
made in any building.
   (b)   A certificate of occupancy and compliance shall be applied for after
the completion of the building and prior to the occupancy thereof. No such
building shall be occupied until the certificate has been secured. The
certificate shall state that the building, or proposed use of a building or
land, complies with all applicable laws and ordinances and with the provisions
of the regulations. A record of all certificates shall be kept in the office of
the building inspector, and copies shall be furnished on request to any person
having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected.
   (c)   Prior to the issuance of a certificate a fee in the amount established
by resolution shall be paid to the city.
   (d)   Nothing in this article shall prevent the continuance of a
nonconformance as authorized in
Chapter 24 unless a discontinuance is necessary for the safety of life and
property.
(Code 1976, §12-2-1; Ord. No. 506, § 2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 6-167. Penalty.
   (a)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or fails
to comply with any of the requirements hereof shall be guilty of a Class B
offense.
   (b)   In addition to other remedies, the city may institute any proper
action to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate any violations of this article.
Secs. 6-168--6-174 Reserved.
DIVISION 2. ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Sec. 6-175. Location/setback of accessory structures.
   (1)   This section shall apply to all accessory structures except as
follows:
   (a)   Accessory structures regulated by
Chapter 7, Article I of this code.
   (b)   Signs and other advertising structures regulated under other
provisions of the City of The Village Code
   (c)   Flag poles
   (d)   Oil and gas facilities
   (e)   Public Utility Structures
   (f)   Telecommunication facilities located or co-located on property owned
or leased by the City and designated by the City as a site suitable for
location of a telecommunications facility.
   (2)   Accessory structures not exempted herein shall not be constructed,
placed, or maintained any closer to any front, side, or back property line of
the lot, upon which the accessory structure is located than the distance
measured from the highest point of the accessory structure from the ground.
(Ord. No. 333, § 3, 10-18-83 Ord. No. 334, § 7, 10-18-83; Ord. No. 481. § 1,
12-15-92 Ord. No. 506 § 2, 9-20-94; Ord. No. 566 §1, 3-6-01)
Sec. 6-176. Time for accessory building construction.
   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction
of the main building has been actually commenced and no accessory building
shall be used unless the main building on the lot is also being used.
(Code 1976, §12-6-2(7); Ord. No. 506, § 2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 6-177. Architectural design of accessory buildings and fences.
   The architectural design and materials used for the construction of
accessory buildings and fences shall harmonize with the main building to which
said building or fence is accessory.
(Code 1976, §12-6-8)
Sec. 6-178. Tornado shelters required for new school construction.
   (1) Every new public-school building or public-school building addition
constructed shall provide a tornado shelter or safe room constructed in
accordance with ICC/NSSA 500 or FEMA 320 or other equivalent engineered system.
Said shelter shall be designed to accommodate the maximum occupancy of the new
building.
Cross References--§
24-1,
Chapter 8.
(Code 1976, § 4-2-3(a), (e)--(g); Ord. No. 468, §1, 3-30-92; Ord. No. 506, § 2,
9-20-94)
Sec. 6-179. Private wind energy conversion towers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, erect, or maintain a private
wind energy conversion tower or similar type structure upon any real property
within the boundaries of the city limits.
(Ord. No. 321, §1(12-6-17), 7-19-83; Ord. No. 506, § 2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 6-180. Swimming pools.
   Private swimming pools shall be completely enclosed by a permanent wall or
fence not less than six (6) feet in height and shall meet the requirements of
the health department.    
(Code 1976, §12-6-6; Ord. No. 506, § 2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 6-181. Carports.
Carports enclosed or partially enclosed on any side by a wall shall conform to
the exterior wall building material provisions of Section
6-202 of this chapter.
Sec. 6-182. Temporary or portable buildings.
   (a)   No temporary or portable building shall be placed or erected on any
property without first having secured a permit from the building inspector and
having paid the permit fee established by resolution.
   (b)   One (1) temporary or portable building shall be permitted on any
residential lot.
   (c)   Temporary or portable buildings permitted by this section shall not
exceed the sizes provided by the following table:
Lot Size in Sq. Ft. Maximum Bldg    Maximum Bldg
From To             Size in Sq. Ft. Height
Lot Size in Sq. Ft. Maximum Bldg    Maximum Bldg
From  To            Size in Sq. Ft. Height
0     21780         160             12 Feet
21781 22216         180             12 Feet
22217 22651         200             12 Feet
22652 23087         220             12 Feet
23088 23522         240             12 Feet
23523 23958         260             12 Feet
23959 24394         280             12 Feet
24395 24829         300             12 Feet
24830 25265         320             12 Feet
25266 25700         340             12 Feet
25701 26136         360             12 Feet
 
(Code 1976, §12-6-9; Ord. No. 335, §§1, 2, 10-18-83; Ord. No. 395, §1, 10-6-87;
Ord. No. 440, §1, 4-17-90; Ord. No. 496, §1, 2-15-94; Ord. No. 504, §1, 6-21-
94; Ord. No. 506, §2, 9-20-94; Ord. 536, §1, 6-3-97)
Secs. 6-183--6-199 Reserved.
DIVISION 3. MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING PROVISIONS
Sec. 6-200. Moving buildings.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to move any building into the city except as
follows:
   (1)   Temporary or portable buildings that are moved onto property within
the city and which are in compliance with other applicable city codes and
building regulations;
   (2)   Buildings that are moved onto property within the city for use by a
tax-supported institution and provided that such buildings comply with all
other applicable city codes and building regulations;
   (3)   Commercial buildings that comply with all applicable city codes and
building regulations and which have been expressly authorized for relocation in
the city by the city council by the issuance of a special permit.
   (4)   Temporary portable buildings placed on a construction site for use as
a construction office while construction is in progress.
(Code 1976, § 12-7-2; Ord. No. 450, § 1, 8-7-90; Ord. No. 506, § 2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 6-201. Mobile homes prohibited.
   (a)   Mobile homes are forbidden and under no circumstances will mobile
homes be authorized in the city or permits issued for the same except for those
placed on a construction site for use as a construction office while
construction is in progress.
(Ord. No. 281, §1(11A-7-1), 7-1-80; Ord. No. 506, § 2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 6-202. Building material requirements for exterior walls.
   (a)   No person shall build or construct any building or an addition thereto
unless at least sixty-five (65) percent of the exterior walls thereof be of
brick, brick veneer, concrete brick, concrete block, stone or stone veneer,
masonry, tile, stucco, exterior insulation and finish systems (EIFS), or
exposed aggregate or other similar material as approved by the building
inspector; provided however, that all windows or doors located in said exterior
walls shall be excluded in the determination of the area of one hundred (100)
percent of the exterior walls, and further provided that where a gable-type
roof is constructed and part of the exterior wall is extended above the
interior ceiling line due to the construction of gable-type roof, then that
portion of said wall extending above the interior room ceiling height may be
constructed of wood material and likewise excluded from the square foot area in
determining what constitutes one hundred (100) percent of the exterior walls of
said buildings. Masonite siding or similar material shall not be considered
masonry for the purposes of this section.
   (b)   Stucco or EIFS (exterior insulation and finish systems) used as
exterior finish on buildings classified for use as assembly, business,
educational, institutional, or mercantile as provided herein, shall not exceed
35% of any exterior wall, which faces a public or private street. Any variance
from this standard shall be approved by the City Council.
   (c)   No permit shall be issued for an addition to be made to any building
or accessory building unless the exterior wall building material shall be equal
or similar to the exterior wall building material of the main building, as
determined by the building inspector.
   (d)   Requirements for the application of brick, brick veneer, concrete
brick, concrete block, stone or stone veneer, masonry, tile, stucco or exposed
aggregate or other similar type material to exterior walls of buildings in this
section shall not apply to:
   1)   Temporary or portable buildings that are permitted in accordance with
the provisions of Section 6-182; or
   2)   Temporary classroom buildings that are moved onto public property
within the city for use by a public school. The city council may require
screening of temporary classroom buildings as may be deemed necessary in order
to provide a buffer between temporary classroom buildings and adjacent
property.
   3)   Temporary classroom or school accessory buildings that are moved onto
private property within the city for use by a private school, provided that
such temporary buildings are either removed or re-permitted within twenty-four
(24) months. The city council may require screening of temporary classroom or
school accessory buildings as may be deemed necessary in order to provide a
buffer between temporary buildings and adjacent property. (2008 Code, Ord. No.
743, §1, 03-18-2019)
   (4)    Publicly owned and operated buildings subject to conditions and
design approved by the City Council. (Ord. No. 632, §1, 05-20-2008)
(Ord. No. 315, §§1--4, 12-21-82; Ord. No. 334, §1, 10-18-83; Ord. No. 467, §1,
2-18-92; Ord. No. 506, § 2, 9-20-94; Ord. No. 632, §1, 05-27-2008, 2008 Code)
Sec. 6-203. Landscape requirements.
Buildings shall be landscaped in accordance with applicable provisions of
Chapter 26 of this code.
(Code 1976, §12-4-2(C); Ord. No. 366, § 1, 6-17-86; Ord. No. 367, § 1, 6-17-86;
Ord. No. 462, § 2, 11-19-91; Ord. No. 371, § 1, 8-19-86; Ord. No. 506, § 2, 9-
20-94; Ord. No. 581 §1, 12-17-02; 2004 Code, 2008 Code; Ord. No. 733, § 1, 11-
06-2017)
Sec. 6-204. Distance of building from oil and gas wells.
   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building,
which is to be located nearer than one hundred (100) feet to any existing well.
In this section "well" means any hole or bore to any depth for the purpose of
producing and recovering any oil, gas, or liquefied petroleum matter or
deleterious substances, or used for the injection or disposal of any of the
foregoing.
(Ord. No. 506, §2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 6-205. Display of building/house numbers.
Numbers showing the street address of every residence and business
establishment in the City must be displayed in a location that is clearly
visible from the street at all times. The numbers must be a minimum of three
(3) inches high and must be in clear contrast to the background on which they
are placed.
(Ord. No. 285, §§ 1, 2, 8-19-80; Ord. No. 393, § 1, 9-15-87; Ord. No. 631, 01-
15-2008)
Secs. 6-206--6-224 Reserved.
CHAPTER 7
TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS & TELEPHONE EXCHANGES
Art. I.    Telecommunication Towers & Facilities §§7-251-7-260
Art. II.   Telephone Exchanges §§7-351-7-366
ARTICLE I: TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS AND FACILITIES
Sec. 7-251. Purpose.
The purposes of these regulations are:
   1)   To facilitate the provision of telecommunications services throughout
the city;
   2)   To enhance the ability to provide telecommunications services to the
community quickly, effectively, and efficiently;
   3)   To encourage the location of towers in non-residential zone districts;
   4)   To minimize the total number of towers in the community;
   5)   To encourage the joint use of new and existing tower locations;
   6)   To ensure that towers are located in areas that minimize adverse
impacts;
   7)   To ensure towers and antennas are configured in a way that minimizes
adverse visual impacts by careful design, appropriate siting, landscape
screening, and innovative camouflaging techniques;
   8)   To encourage the attachment of antennas to existing structures;
   9)   To consider public health and safety of telecommunications facilities;
   10)   To avoid damage to adjacent properties from tower failure through
careful engineering and locating of tower structures; and
   11)   To protect residential areas and lands by minimizing adverse impacts
of towers.
Sec. 7-252. Definitions.
   (a)   Accessory support facilities shall mean support buildings, structures
and equipment cabinets for telecommunications facilities containing electrical
and mechanical equipment and devices used for the reception of or transmission
of voice, data, image, graphic and video programming information between or
among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite,
or similar facilities.
   (b)   Alternative tower structure shall mean manmade trees, clock towers,
bell steeples, building structures or building equipment normally maintained
above the roofline of a structure, light poles, and similar alternative design
mounting structures. An alternative tower structure must be compatible with the
natural setting and surrounding structures and must camouflage or conceal the
presence of antennas and/or towers. This term also includes any antenna or
antenna array attached to the alternative tower structure.
   (c)   Antenna shall mean any exterior transmitting or receiving devices
mounted on a tower, building or structure and used in communications that
radiate or capture electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals,
radio frequencies (excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications
signals or other communication signals.
   (d)   Backhaul network shall mean the lines that connect a provider's tower/
cell sites to one or more cellular telephone switching offices, and/or long-
distance providers, or the public switched telephone network.
   (e)   FAA: Federal Aviation Administration.
   (f)   FCC: Federal Communications Commission.
   (g)   Telecommunications facilities shall mean the plant, equipment, and
property, including but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts,
pedestals, antennae, towers, alternative tower structures, electronics and
other appurtenances used to transmit, receive, distribute, provide, or offer
telecommunications services.
   (h)   Telecommunications service shall mean the providing or offering for
rent, sale, or lease, or in exchange for other value received, of the
transmittal of voice, data, image, graphic and video programming information
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities, with or without benefit or any closed
transmission medium.
   (i)   Tower shall mean a self-supporting monopole structure designed and
constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas. Tower
shall not include self-supporting lattice towers or guy towers. The term
includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common
carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, and other similar structures. This
term also includes any antenna or antenna array attached to the tower
structure.
   (j)   Tower Height shall mean, when referring to a tower or other
alternative tower structure, the distance measured from the lowest point within
ten (10) feet of the structure to the highest point on the tower or other
alternative tower structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
Sec. 7-253. Permit Required.
Telecommunications facilities shall be regulated and permitted pursuant to this
Ordinance and the zoning ordinances of the City.
   (1)   A telecommunications facility shall obtain a permit as a condition for
the siting, construction, or operation of the telecommunications facility.
   (2)   These regulations shall apply to all towers and antennas as defined,
except:
   (a)   Any tower, or antenna, not more than seventy (70) feet in height,
owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator if it
is used exclusively as a receive only facility.
   (b)   Any antenna co-located on an existing telecommunications facility,
except as expressly provided by this Article.
   (c)   A telecommunications facility located or co-located on property, which
is owned or leased by the City and designated by the City as a site suitable
for location of a telecommunications facility.
   (3)   Any violation of this Article is hereby declared to be a Class A
Offense and every day that a violation continues to exist shall be deemed a
separate offense. In addition to any other relief or penalty provided by law,
the City may apply to district court for an injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this Article.
Sec. 7-254. Co-location Requirements.
   (1)   All applicants for a telecommunications facility permit shall co-
locate on an existing facility if it is feasible to do so. An existing facility
shall be deemed to be available to the applicant for co-location if: the
facility is within the search ring of the applicant or within a reasonable
distance so as to fit into the applicant's design, space is available on the
facility, and the facility owner will lease space to applicant at a reasonable
market rate.
   (a)   If the applicant finds that co-location is not feasible, it shall
submit to the City a written statement of the reasons for the unfeasibility.
The City may retain a technical expert in the field of radio frequency (RF)
engineering to determine whether co-location at the site is feasible. The cost
for such a technical expert will be at the expense of the applicant.
   (b)   The City may deny the permit unless the applicant demonstrates to the
City by substantial evidence that existing telecommunications facilities cannot
accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna.
   (2)   A telecommunications tower shall not be permitted unless the owner of
the proposed tower certifies to the City that the tower is available for use by
other telecommunications service providers on a reasonable and
nondiscriminatory basis. Towers shall be designed and built to accommodate a
minimum of three telecommunications facilities.
   (3)   To facilitate co-location and coordination of telecommunication sites,
all telecommunication service providers within the city shall, within ninety
(90) days of the publication of this ordinance, provide the City with their
respective master antenna plans. Said plans shall include detailed maps,
showing the locations of all telecommunications towers serving any portion of
the City and indicating coverage areas for current and, to the extent possible,
future telecommunications towers.
   (4)   Providers shall also provide the City with any updates to the above
documents within ninety (90) days of their creation.
Sec. 7-255. Telecommunication Facility Standards.
   (1)   ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE. No tower may be located closer than 250 feet from
a playground, ball field, or other area used for active ecreation within a park
or school. Where such locations are well suited for placement of towers on
municipal property, special fencing or other safety barriers shall be required.
   (2)   COMPATIBILITY. Telecommunication facilities shall either maintain a
galvanized steel finish or, subject to applicable standards of the FAA, be
painted, so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness. Dish antennas will be of a
neutral, non-reflective color with no logos. The exterior of equipment
buildings and/or metal equipment cabinets visible from residential areas or
public rights-of-way must have a neutral aggregate finish or be painted to
reflect the color and character of adjoining structures or blend with adjacent
landscaping and other surroundings.
   (3)   DESIGN. At the telecommunications facility, the design of the
buildings and related structures used in conjunction with telecommunications
facilities shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures,
screening, and landscaping that will blend the telecommunications facilities to
the natural setting and the built environment.
   (4)   HEIGHT. Tower height shall be restricted as follows:
   (a)   Single user tower - not more than one-hundred and fifty (150) feet;
   (b)   Two or more users -- not more than one hundred ninety-five (195) feet.
   (5)   INTERFERENCE. Applicants shall be required to demonstrate that the
planned telecommunications facility will not cause radio frequency interference
with other existing or planned equipment. Such interference is prohibited.
   (6)   LANDSCAPING. Landscaping of telecommunication facilities shall include
a five (5) foot landscaped buffer outside the perimeter of the
telecommunication facilities compound. Said buffer shall be planted with trees
and shrubs so as to adequately screen the facilities from public view.
Applicant shall be required to submit a landscaping plan for review and
approval by the city.
   (7)   LIGHTING. Illumination of towers is prohibited except as required by
the FAA. Strobes shall not be used for nighttime lighting. Any required
lighting shall be directed upward and away from adjoining properties. In
addition, the ground level security lighting shall not be more than 20 feet in
height.
   (8)   PARKING AND INGRESS/EGRESS. Applicant shall provide one (1) off street
parking space for each provider using the telecommunications facility. Ingress/
egress to the facility shall be via approved access points. All off-street
parking and ingress/egress drives shall be paved with an all-weather surface
such as asphalt or concrete and which shall be designed to carry the loads of
the vehicles/equipment to which said pavement shall be subjected.
   (9)   SCREENING/SECURITY. The base of the tower and any accessory support
facilities shall be screened from view with a solid, six-foot high sight-proof,
security fence. The materials of the fence shall be compatible with the primary
uses of the surrounding property.
   (10)   SETBACKS AND FALL ZONES.
   (a)   If the tower is located on residentially zoned property, the setback
from the abutting residentially zoned property shall be (1) foot of setback for
every foot in height of the tower, or the set back of the zoning district,
whichever is greater.
   (b)   If the tower is located on residentially zoned property, the setback
from abutting commercially zoned property shall be one hundred (100) feet plus
an additional one (1) foot of setback for every foot of tower height over one
hundred and fifty (150) feet.
   (c)   If the tower is located on commercially zoned property, the setback
from the abutting residentially zoned property shall be one (1) foot setback
for every foot in height, or the set back of the zoning district, whichever is
greater.
   (d)   If the tower is located on commercially zoned property, the setback
from the abutting commercially zoned property shall be one hundred (100) feet
plus an additional one (1) foot of setback for every foot of tower height over
one hundred and fifty (150) feet. Upon the written consent of the abutting
commercial property owner or owners and upon the recommendation of the Planning
& Zoning Commission, the City Council may reduce the minimum setback of a tower
from said abutting commercial property.
(Ord. No. 603 §1, 05-02-2005) Note: This section has been renumbered from 18-5
(10) (d) to 7-255 (10) (d).
   (e)   If the tower is located on commercially zoned property the setback
from the abutting commercially zoned property shall be one-hundred (100) feet
plus an additional one (1) foot of setback for every foot of tower height over
one hundred and fifty (150) feet; provided however, if the tower is designed to
fold instead of falling horizontally when structural failure occurs, the
setback from the abutting commercially zoned property shall be twenty-five (25)
feet. (2014 Code)
   (f)   If the tower is located adjacent to or separated by a public right of
way from property zoned residential, the setback from the abutting
residentially zoned property shall be (1) foot setback for every foot in height
of the tower, less one half the width of the abutting street right-of-way.
   (g)   If the tower height is greater than the required setback, an applicant
shall submit an engineer's certificate that the tower is designed to fall
within the area used or leased for the telecommunications facilities, should
the tower fail. Pursuant to this section, applicant shall provide liability
insurance in the event of a failure or other condition arising out of the use
of the property for a telecommunications facility. The limits of coverage shall
be as follows:
Coverages            Limits of Liability
Bodily Injury Liability      $500,000.00 each occurrence
               $1,000,000.00 aggregate.
Property Damage Liability      $500,000.00 each occurrence
               $500,000.00 aggregate.
Excess Umbrella Liability      $5,000,000.00 each occurrence.
   (11)   SIGNS. Signs on telecommunication towers shall be limited to four (4)
square feet in area and shall only display the following information
   (a)   The name, registration number and emergency contact number of the
tower owner;
   (b)   Warning or safety instructions;
   (c)   Any other information required to be posted by the FCC or other
federal or state regulatory agency.
   (12)   SPACING. No tower shall be closer than five (500) hundred feet from
another tower, such distance being measured as a horizontal from tower to
tower. Any new telecommunications tower in excess of one hundred eighty feet
(180' or 55m) in height must be located a minimum of one (1) mile (1.6 km) from
any existing tower in excess of one hundred eighty feet (180' or 55m) in
height.
   (13)   SUPPORT FACILITIES. Support facilities can be no more than three
hundred and fifty (350) square feet of gross floor area or be more than twelve
(12') feet in height. Minimum setback requirements of the applicable zoning
district shall apply to accessory support facilities. All support facilities
shall be attached to a permanent foundation and shall be constructed of at
least 65% exterior masonry material as defined by Section
6-202 of this code.
Sec. 7-256. Alternative Structures Standards.
   (1)   A telecommunications facility may be permitted on an alternative tower
structure at least thirty (30) feet tall under the following conditions which
shall be in addition to the requirements of Sections 18-5 and 18-7 herein:
   (a)   The facility and its accessory support facilities shall comply with
all zoning requirements applicable to the alternate structure and the
provisions of Section 18-5 of this Article
   (b)   If the facility or an accessory support facility is located upon the
roof of a structure, each such facility shall be set back a distance at least
equal to the height of the telecommunications facility unless the facilities
are screened or camouflaged in a manner that is compatible with the surrounding
property. The top of the antenna or other facility shall not be more than
thirty percent (30%) of the height of the alternate structure, or seventy-five
feet (75'), whichever is less.
   (c)   The alternative structure must be similar in color, scale, and
character to adjoining buildings or structures or blend with the landscaping
and other surroundings immediately adjacent to them so as to generally avoid
the creation of unique visual objects that stand out in the environment and
   (d)   Prior to the installation of any building/roof mounted
telecommunications facility, the applicant shall furnish to the City an
engineer's certification that the structure will support and not be adversely
affected by the proposed antenna and accessory support facility or equipment.
Sec. 7-257. Specific Standards.
   (1)   FEDERAL AND STATE STANDARDS. All telecommunications facilities shall
be erected and operated in compliance with current Federal Communication
Commission (FCC) and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) rules and
regulations and other applicable federal, state, and local standards.
   (a)   The tower owner shall provide documentation that all equipment
proposed for a personal wireless service facility shall be authorized per the
FCC Guidelines for Evaluating the Environmental Effects of Radio frequency
Radiation.
   (b)   An applicant shall provide a copy of its FCC license or, if the
applicant is not an FCC license holder, a copy of at least one letter of
commitment from an FCC license holder to locate at least one (1) antenna on the
applicant's tower.
   (2)   ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS.
   (a)   Telecommunication facilities shall not be permitted in any wetland or
floodplain and disturbance to wetland buffer areas shall be minimized.
   (b)   Ground-mounted equipment for personal wireless service facilities
shall not generate noise in excess of fifty (50) decibels at the property line.
Roof-mounted or side-mounted equipment for personal wireless service facilities
shall not generate noise in excess of fifty (50) decibels at ground level at
the base of the building closest to the antenna.
   (3)   STRUCTURAL STANDARDS. Telecommunications tower structures must conform
to the most current revision of EIA 222 standards. Guyed telecommunications
towers shall be designed and located such that, if the structure should fall,
it will avoid habitable structures and public ways. Telecommunications
facilities shall be designed and engineered to withstand wind loadings and
other design standards as defined by the building codes adopted by the City. An
engineer's certification of the structural integrity of the tower and all
associated equipment shall be required.
Sec. 7-258. Permit Conditions.
   (1)   ABANDONMENT. A telecommunications service provider shall post a bond
or other security sufficient to pay for the removal of any abandoned facility.
No owner or occupant of property within the City shall permit, leave or cause
to be left on said property any telecommunications facility, which has been
abandoned or discontinued for use. The provider shall remove its facility
within ninety (90) days of the date that it discontinues its use of the
facility. If the provider fails to remove the facility within the required
time, the facility shall be deemed to be abandoned. The City shall have
authority to enter the premises and remove the abandoned facilities. All costs
of removal that exceed the amount of the bond or security posted for that
purpose shall be collected from the provider or property owner in the manner
provided for summary abatement of nuisances. This requirement shall apply to
co-located facilities unless the co-location agreement provides for the removal
of abandoned facilities by the tower operator.
   (2)   DEFECTIVE FACILITIES. Defective or unsafe antennas, telecommunication
towers or telecommunication facilities shall be repaired or removed within six
(6) months at the owner or operator's expense. If the facilities are not
operated for a continuous period of twenty (24) four months, they shall be
considered abandoned and must be removed within ninety (90) days. If not
removed, the City may remove at the expense of the owner or operator.
   (3)   NON-CONFORMING USE. Existing towers that do not comply with the new
regulations may continue. They may not be expanded or replaced unless they meet
the new regulations. If they are damaged or destroyed, they may be repaired or
restored to their former use, location, and physical dimensions without
complying with the new regulations. The existing tower may replace, repair,
rebuild and/or expand to accommodate co-located antennas or facilities, or to
upgrade the facilities to current engineering, technological or communications
standards by obtaining zoning approval.
Sec. 7-259. Permit Approval Process.
   (1)   PUBLIC NOTICE. Except for a proposed telecommunications facility,
which will co-locate on an existing tower, the applicant for a
telecommunications facility permit shall notify all property owners within
three hundred (300) feet of the outer boundary of the property proposed for
location of the facility. Such notice shall describe the boundaries of the
property included in the application, explain the character and dimensions of
the proposed telecommunications facility, and give an address for the property
owners to submit written comments to the applicant. The notice shall include a
drawing or other representation of the visual aspects of the proposed facility.
The notice shall also contain the date, which shall be not less than fifteen
(15) days after the mailing date, set for consideration of the application by
the City.
   (2)   PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW/COUNCIL APPROVAL:
   (a)   No permit shall be approved until the plans for the proposed
telecommunication facility is reviewed by the Planning & Zoning Commission. The
Planning & Zoning Commission shall make recommendations to the City Council as
to whether the proposed facility meets all criteria required for the issuance
of a permit.
   (b)   No permit shall be issued by the city until the plans for the proposed
telecommunication facility are approved by the City Council.
   (3)   PLANS, MAPS & INVENTORIES. Applicant shall be required to submit to
the city:
   (a)   An inventory and contour map of existing facilities that are within
the City and within at least five (5) miles from the City line, including
specific information about the location, height, coverage and capacity zones,
and design of each telecommunications facility, telecommunications tower, and
antenna
   (b)   Identification of the applicant's backhaul providers and the method
(wired or wireless) of providing backhaul with annual updates
   (c)   A vicinity map and scaled set of plans identifying impacts on the
surrounding built environment and showing the location of all facilities,
ingress/egress drives, parking, landscaping, fencing, buffer zones, setbacks
from existing structures, streets, public ways, and adjoining zoning district
boundaries.
   (d)   An engineer's report, certifying that the proposed telecommunications
facility is compatible for co-location by a minimum of three (3) users.
   (e)   Documentation from the tower owner that the equipment proposed for a
wireless service facility is authorized per the FCC Guidelines for Evaluating
the Environmental Effects of Radio frequency Radiation.
   (f)   An engineer's report, certifying that the proposed telecommunications
facility will not create interference with other telecomunication signals or
other telecommunication facilities.
   (g)   If applicable, an engineer's report, certifying that the proposed
telecommunication tower is designed to fall within the leased area.
   (h)   A copy of FCC licenses, or a commitment letter from a license holder
to locate an antenna on an existing tower
   (i)   A permit-processing fee in the amount of five hundred ($500.00)
dollars.
   (j)   Insurance certificates for insurance as may be required pursuant to
the permit and
   (k)   A security bond in an amount sufficient to guarantee the removal of
abandoned towers and facilities at the applicant's expense.
Sec. 7-260. Annual Inspection Fee.
   The owner or operator of any telecommunications facility permitted pursuant
to this Article shall pay an annual inspection fee to the city in the amount of
two hundred and fifty ($250.00) dollars. Annual inspection fees shall be due no
later than July 1 of each year. Annual inspection fees shall be prorated
monthly in the first year.
(Ord. No. 566 §2, 3-6-01)
Secs. 7-261-7-350 Reserved.
ARTICLE II. TELEPHONE SERVICES.
Sec. 7-351. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this Article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning and except where otherwise defined by federal or
state law:
Annual gross revenues mean the total income received by Grantee during the
calendar year derived from telephone system operations originating or
terminating within The Village. Annual gross revenues shall not include sales
taxes or other taxes collected by Grantee.
Telephone System or Exchange means a set of transmission paths and associated
signal generation, reception and control equipment that is designed to provide
telephone communication services to residential and commercial customers within
the City. It shall include, without limitation, all of the components, physical
operation, and programming elements of a network of telephone, electrical and
electronic equipment, designed, constructed, wired, or used for the purpose of
producing, receiving, amplifying, and transmitting by coaxial cable, fiber
optics, or by other means, voice, data, fax, or other related electronic signal
impulses in either analog or digital format.
Grantee means any person or group of persons who have been granted a permit by
the City to construct and operate upon the rights-of-way of the city, a
telephone system or exchange pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
Article.
Public way means the surface, air space above the surface and the area below
the surface of any public street, sidewalk, alley, utility easement or other
public way in the City.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96; Ord. No. 736, §1, 03-05-2018)
Sec. 7-352. Rights reserved by city.
   (a)   The right is hereby reserved to the City or the City Council to adopt,
in addition to the provisions contained herein and in existing ordinances, such
additional regulations of general applicability as it shall find necessary in
the exercise of its lawful powers. Such regulations shall be reasonable and not
in conflict with the rights herein granted, or any applicable federal or state
law.
   (b)   The City shall have the right to inspect the books, records, maps,
plans, federal and state income tax returns, and other like materials
pertaining directly or indirectly to any permit granted under this Article upon
reasonable notice to Grantee and during normal business hours.
   (c)   The City shall have the right, during the term of any permit to
install and maintain free of charge upon the poles of Grantee any wire and pole
fixtures that do not interfere with the telephone system operations of Grantee.
   (d)   The City shall have the right to inspect all construction or
installation work performed by Grantee pursuant to the issuance of a permit. In
the event any such inspection reveals that the Grantee has failed, in the
city's judgment, to fulfill its obligation under the terms of this Article, the
City shall notify Grantee, in writing, of its specific deficiencies. Absent
commencement of corrective action by Grantee within forty-eight (48) hours of
receipt of said notification, the City, upon the direction of the City Council,
may undertake the necessary repairs or restoration and be promptly compensated
or reimbursed in the event the City pays any monies under this provision.
   (e)   Upon the termination or cancellation of a permit, as provided herein,
the Grantee shall have six (6) months from the date it ceases operation to
remove, at its own expense, all portions of its system from all public ways
within the City and to restore said public ways to a condition satisfactory to
the City.
Sec. 7-353. Maps, plats, and reports.
   (a)   Upon request, Grantee shall file with the City Engineer maps or plats
of all existing and proposed installation. Grantee shall, simultaneously with
the acceptance of the permit, file a map of the City showing the proposed
construction schedule of Grantee.
   (b)   Grantee shall, upon request, submit to the City financial information
applicable to its operations under its permit during the preceding twelve (12)
month period, as well as a statement of its properties devoted to telephone
system operations within The Village, and the total number of each class of
subscribers within the City. The financial information shall be sufficiently
detailed to document calculation of Grantee's Annual Gross Revenues. This
financial information shall be prepared or certified by Grantee's chief
financial officer or by a certified public accountant.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-354. Payments to City.
   (a)   Grantee shall pay to the City annually an amount equal to two (2%)
percent of that portion of the Annual Gross Revenues attributable to the
operations of its telephone system within the City. Payment due under this
provision shall be payable forty-five (45) calendar days after the end of each
calendar year, or at such other time as may be agreed to in writing by the City
and Grantee.
   (b)   The fee levied herein shall compensate the city for the expense
incurred and services rendered incident to the exercise of its police power,
supervision, police regulation, and police control of the construction of lines
and equipment of the telephone system or exchange in the City.
   (c)   Except as may otherwise be provided herein, the fee levied herein
shall be in lieu of all concessions, charges, excise, franchise, license,
privilege and permit fees, or taxes or assessments, provided however, said fee
shall not be in lieu of ad valorem taxes.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96; Ord. No. 736, §1, 03-05-2018)
Sec. 7-355. Indemnification and insurance.
   (a)   Except in the event of the city's employees' or agents' negligence,
the Grantee shall pay all damages and penalties, which the City may legally be
required to pay as a result of the granting of a permit to Grantee. The damages
and penalties shall include, but shall not be limited to, any and all claims
and suits for damages or other relief filed by third parties, arising out of
copyright infringements and all other damages arising out of installation,
operation or maintenance of the telephone system authorized herein, whether or
not any act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed, or prohibited by
the permit or by this Article.
   (b)   Except in the event of the city's employees' or agents' negligence,
the acceptance of a permit for the construction and operation of a telephone
system within the City shall constitute an agreement by Grantee to indemnify
and save the City harmless from any and all claims, demands, actions, damages,
loss, liability, attorney fees, costs and other expense resulting from the
construction, operation, or maintenance by Grantee of a telephone system, or
any part thereof, in the City or occasioned wholly or in part by any act or
omission of Grantee, its agents, employees or contractors.
   (c)   Commencing with any work on the installation of a telephone system in
the City, Grantee shall maintain throughout the term of any permit, liability
insurance insuring the City and Grantee and their officers, private
subcontractors, agents and employees whether elected or appointed, against any
and all claims, injury or damage to person or property, both real and personal,
caused by or resulting directly or indirectly from the construction, erection,
operation or maintenance of any aspect of the telephone system. The amount of
such insurance shall not be less than the following:
   (1)   General liability insurance, which is in an amount equal to the limit
found in 51 O.S. § 154 A, as amended to wit:
   (a)   Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00) for any claim or claimant
who has more than one claim for loss of property arising out of a single
accident or occurrence.
   (b)   One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) to any claimant for his
claim for any other loss arising out of a single accident or occurrence.
   (c)   One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) for any number of claims arising
out of a single occurrence or accident.
   (2)   Automobile insurance:
   (a)   Bodily injury per person, three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00)
   (b)   Bodily injury per occurrence, five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00)
   (c)   Property damage per occurrence, five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00)
   (3)   Worker's compensation insurance shall also be provided as required by
state law for all of Grantee's employees to be engaged in any work pursuant to
a permit issued by the City.
   (4)   Grantee shall have the City named as an additional insured under said
General Liability and Property Damages Insurance policies.
   (5)   All insurance coverage shall provide a ten-day notice to the City
Clerk in the event of material alteration or cancellation of any coverage
afforded in said policies prior to the date said material alteration or
cancellation shall become effective. In the event Grantee fails to maintain any
insurance as required herein, the City, may, at its option, either terminate
the permit or obtain and keep such insurance in full force and effect and the
Grantee shall promptly reimburse the City for such insurance costs.
   (6)   A certificate for all insurance policies required hereunder shall be
furnished to and filed with the City Clerk and shall be on file with the City
Clerk at all times during which such insurance is required hereunder to be
maintained by Grantee.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-356. Further agreement and waiver by Grantee.
Grantee shall abide by all provisions of this Article, and shall agree that it
will not at any future time set up, as against the City or the City Council,
the claim that the provisions of this Article are unreasonable, arbitrary, or
void or where any such provision is preempted by federal or state law.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-357. General regulations pertaining to pole agreements and occupancy of
public ways.
   (a)   All transmission and distribution structures, and equipment erected by
Grantee within the City shall be so located as not to create traffic hazards,
not to cause drainage problems, to cause minimum interference with the proper
use of streets, alleys and other public ways and places and to cause minimum
inconvenience to property owners and residents of the City.
   (b)   It shall be the responsibility of Grantee to obtain the necessary pole
attachment agreements from the City and/or private utility companies using
poles within the City. All pole attachment agreements obtained from private
utility companies shall, upon request, be filed with the City Clerk. The City
will follow the policy of attempting to assist Grantee in the securing of the
necessary pole attachment agreements.
   (c)   All pole attachment agreements with the City shall be negotiated with
the City Manager and approved by the City Council.
   (d)   If, at any time during the term of the permit the City shall lawfully
elect to alter or change the grade of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, Grantee, upon reasonable notice by the City, shall remove, relay,
and relocate its poles, wires, telephones, underground conduits, manholes, and
other fixtures at its own expense; provided, however, to the extent such
removal, relay and/or relocation is due to the City's efforts to accommodate an
unrelated third party, the expense of such removal, relay and/or relocation
shall be paid by the person requesting the same.
   (e)   Any poles, wires, telephones, conduits, manholes or other fixtures
placed in any public way by Grantee shall be placed in such a manner as not to
interfere with the usual travel on such public way.
   (f)   Grantee shall, on the request of any persons holding a building moving
permit issued by the City, temporarily raise, or lower its wires to permit the
moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal or raising or
lowering of wires to permit the moving of building shall be paid by the person
requesting the same, and Grantee shall have the authority to require such
payment in advance. Grantee shall be given not less than forty-eight (48) hours
advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   (g)   Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging
streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public ways and places of the City so as to
prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires and
telephones of Grantee, except that at the option of the City, such trimming may
be done by the City or under its supervision and direction at the expense of
Grantee.
   (h)   In all sections of the City where public utilities are placed
underground, Grantee shall place its telephone, wires, or other like facilities
underground.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-358. Permit.
   No person or persons shall construct or operate a telephone system or
exchange in the City without first obtaining a permit from the City Council.
Under such permit, Grantee thereof shall have the right and privilege to
construct, erect, operate and maintain, in, upon, along, across, above, over
and under the streets, alleys, public ways and public places in the City,
poles, wires, telephones, fiber, underground conduits, manholes, and other
telephone conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation
in the City of such telephone system or exchange.
(Ord. No. 530 §0, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-359. Term.
   Any permit and the rights, privileges and authority granted under this
Article shall take effect and be in full force from and after approval thereof
by the City Council. Any such permit shall be subject to formal review every
five years. Should Grantee be found, upon review, to be in non-compliance with
the material provisions of the permit and this Article, Grantee will be given
six (6) months to correct those areas of non-compliance.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-360. Compliance with telephone laws and ordinances.
   (a)   Any permit granted under this Article shall be subject to all
applicable telephone provisions of the laws of the United States, the State of
Oklahoma, and to the extent not inconsistent with this Article, City ordinances
and any amendments thereto. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency
between the terms of this Article or any state, local or federal law, federal
law shall govern.
   (b)   Grantee shall fully comply with all applicable telephone laws,
ordinances, and regulations in the conduct of its telephone system operations
and business within the City.
   (c)   Plans of the proposed telephone system including overhead cables,
underground telephones, and head end tower shall in be accordance with the
National Electrical Safety Code and the National Electric Code. Any tower
constructed for use in grantee's telephone system shall comply with the
standards contained in Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and
Antenna Supporting Structures, EIA Standards RS-222A, as published by the
Engineering Department of the Electronic Industries Association, 2201 "I"
Street NW, Washington, DC 20006.
   (d)   Grantee shall obtain building permits for all buildings to be
constructed, pay all building permit fees, tap charge fees, and all other fees
as required by the ordinances of the City and at the rates that are in full
force and effect at the time the building permits are applied for.
   (e)   Any and all pavement cuts of permanent or nonpermanent pavement shall
be approved by the City Engineer and shall be shown on the plans submitted to
the City Engineer prior to the commencement of construction. Grantee shall
obtain any permit required by the ordinances of the City prior to making any
pavement cut.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-361. Transfer.
   Grantee shall not assign or transfer its permit to another person without
prior written approval of the City Council, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld, provided that Grantee may upon thirty (30) days prior
written notice to the Council, transfer this permit to an entity controlling,
controlled by or under common control with Grantee. Any such transferee shall
be bound by all provisions of this Article and subsequent amendments hereto and
other applicable ordinances of the City.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-362. Forfeiture.
   (a)   In addition to all other rights and powers reserved to the City
hereunder, and subject to subsection (e) below, the City shall have the right
to terminate and cancel any permit and all rights and privileges of Grantee
thereunder in the event that Grantee:
   (1)   Willfully violates any material provision of this Article or any rule,
order, or determination of the City Council made pursuant to its permit, except
where such violation is without fault or not through neglect;
   (2)   Becomes insolvent, or unable to pay its lawful debts, or is adjudged
bankrupt;
   (3)   Willfully violates or attempts to evade any of the material provisions
of its permit or practices any fraud or deceit upon the City or its citizens;
   (4)   Fails to secure all necessary documents, including but not limited to
pole use agreements, within twelve (12) months after obtaining a permit from
the city, or fails to complete construction of the telephone system in a timely
manner.
   (5)   Fails to begin construction and proceed with the same in a reasonable,
diligent, and workmanlike manner under its permit within ninety (90) days after
receipt of all necessary documents, including but not limited to pole
attachment agreements, FCC waivers and FAA approvals;
   (b)   Upon the occurrence of any event in this section or any other section
providing for termination, the City Manager shall notify the Grantee in writing
of the alleged default. Unless the City shall otherwise provide in instances of
immediate threat to the public safety, health and welfare, the Grantee shall
have thirty (30) days from the receipt of a written notice of default to: (a)
respond contesting the alleged assertion of default, or (b) cure such default
or, in the event that, by nature of the default, such default can not be cured
within the thirty (30) day period, institute reasonable steps to remedy such
default and notify the City of the steps being taken and the projected date of
compliance.
   (c)   In the event the Grantee contests the assertion of a default or fails
to respond to a notice of default, or the alleged default is not remedied, nor
remedy commenced within the time required, the Council may schedule a hearing
to investigate the default. The Council shall provide the Grantee with at least
thirty (30) days notice of the time and place of such hearing and provide
Grantee with an opportunity to be heard.
   (d)   At such hearing, the City Council shall, after notice, hear any
persons interested therein, including the Grantee, and shall determine, in its
discretion, after due consideration of any and all evidence presented, whether
or not any failure, refusal or neglect by the Grantee constitutes cause for
revocation of the permit. Subject to applicable federal and state law, in the
event the City, after such hearing, determines that Grantee is in default of
any provision of this Article, the City may:
   1.   Order that the Grantee cure such default within a reasonable period of
time,
   2.   Commence an action at law for monetary damage or seek other equitable
relief,
   3.   Declare the permit to be terminated effective sixty (60) days following
the declaration; or
   4.   Seek specific performance of any provision, which reasonably lends
itself to such remedy, as an alternative to damages or termination of the
permit.
   (e)   The Grantee shall not be held in default with any provision of its
permit or this Article, nor suffer an enforcement penalty relating thereto,
where such alleged default is caused by acts of nature, power outages, labor
disputes, equipment failures, or other events reasonably beyond the power of
the Grantee to control.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-363. City's right of intervention.
   Grantee shall not oppose intervention by the City in any suit or proceeding
to which Grantee is a party.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-364. Erection, removal, and common use of poles.
   (a)   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by Grantee
without prior approval of the City Engineer with regard to location, height,
type, and any other pertinent aspect. However, no location of any pole or wire-
holding structure of the Grantee shall be a vested interest and such poles or
structures shall be removed or modified by Grantee at its own expense whenever
the City Engineer determines that the public convenience would be enhanced
thereby.
   (b)   Where poles or other wire-holding structures already existing for use
in serving the City are available for use by the Grantee, but it does not make
arrangements for such use, the City may require Grantee to use such structures,
if it determines that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby and the
terms for the use available to Grantee are just and reasonable.
   (c)   Where a public utility serving the City desires to make use of the
poles or other wire-holding structures of Grantee, but agreement therefore with
Grantee cannot be reached, the City Council may require Grantee to permit such
use for such consideration and upon such terms as the City Council shall
determine to be just and reasonable, if the Council determines that the use
would enhance the public convenience and would not unduly interfere with
Grantee's operations.
   (d)   Grantee shall comply with the pole attachment agreement provisions in
Section 21-56.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-365. Safety requirements.
   (a)   Grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install and
maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failure
and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the
public.
   (b)   Grantee shall install and maintain its wires, cables, fixtures, and
other equipment in accordance with the requirements of the National Electrical
Safety Code and the National Electrical Code, as adopted by the City and all
applicable state and local laws and in such a manner that they will not
interfere with any installation of the City or of a public utility serving the
City.
   (c)   All structures and all lines, equipment, and connections in, along,
across, over, under and upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys, or public ways or
places of the City, wherever situated or located, shall at all times be kept
and maintained in a safe, suitable, substantial condition, and in good order
and repair.
(Ord. No. 530 §1, 9-17-96)
Sec. 7-366. Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) Service Fee Adopted.
   (a)   A 9-1-1 service fee is hereby adopted by the Council of the City of
The Village upon Interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol telephony service
customers whose businesses or residences are located within the City limits of
The Village at the rate of fifty cents ($0.50) per month for each VoIP service
user, pursuant to the provisions of Title 63, O.S. (2006), Section 2851 et seq.
   (b)   All VoIP carriers having customers within the City of The Village
shall provide an annual census of customers to the City no later than sixty
(60) days after the first day of each calendar year.
Sec. 7-367. Penalty.
   Any Grantee who fails to comply with or violates any material provision of
this Article shall be guilty of a Class B offense punishable by a fine of two
hundred ($200.00) dollars. Each day that the noncompliance or violation exists
shall be a separate offense.
(Editor's note: This section was renumbered from 7-366 to 7-367 to correct a
conflict with Ordinance 625, which adopted a new 7-366.)
CHAPTER 8
CIVIL DEFENSE & EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
DIVISION 1: IN GENERAL
Sec. 8-1. Department created.
   There is hereby established under the executive branch of the Government of
the city a department of Civil Defense and Emergency Management.
(Code 1976, 4-1-1; Ord. No. 584, §1, 7-1-03)
State law reference--Local civil defense organizations, 63 O.S. 683.11.
Sec. 8-2. Function of department.
The purpose of the department of Civil Defense and Emergency Management is to
be prepared for, and to function in the event of, emergencies endangering the
lives and property of the people of the city. The duty of the department of
Civil Defense and Emergency Management shall be the protection of the lives and
health of the citizens of the city and of property and property rights, both
private and public, and to perform all functions necessary and incident
thereto.
(Code 1976, 4-1-2; Ord. No. 584, §1, 7-1-03)
Sec. 8-3. Liability of the city for injury.
The City of The Village shall not be liable for any personal injury to members
of the department of civil defense and emergency management who serve without
compensation while any such member is acting in the line of duty.
(Code 1976, 4-1-5; Ord. No. 584, §1, 7-1-03)
Sec. 8-4. Director of Civil Defense and Emergency Management.
   (a)   The department of Civil Defense and Emergency Management shall have a
director who shall be appointed by the city manager and serve at his pleasure.
Said director may be a paid employee of the city and have other duties and
responsibilities not related to civil defense and emergency management.
   (b)   The Director of Civil Defense and Emergency Management shall be the
executive head of the department of Civil Defense and Emergency Management and
shall be responsible for carrying out the civil defense program of the city. It
shall be the duty of the director of Civil Defense and Emergency Management as
soon as practicable after appointment to perfect an organization and to carry
out the purposes set forth by this article and he shall have all necessary
power and authority to form committees or other bodies and to appoint and
designate chairmen or chief officers of such bodies as may be necessary to
perfect such an organization. He shall have a further duty and responsibility
to cooperate with all civil defense agencies of other governmental units
including the state and the United States.
   (c)   The director of Civil Defense and Emergency Management is authorized
to formulate written plans, gather information, and keep written records
thereof to govern the functions of the department.
(Code 1976, 4-1-1, 4-1-3; Ord. No. 584, §1, 7-1-03)
Cross-reference--Tornado shelters,
6-161 et seq.
State law references--Oklahoma Civil Defense and Emergency Resources Management
Act of 1967, 63 O.S. 683.1 et seq.; Oklahoma Riot Control and Prevention Act,
21 O.S. 1321.1 et seq. State law reference--Civil defense director, 63 O.S.
683.13.
Sec. 8-5. Law enforcement.
The Director of Civil Defense and Emergency Management and the members of said
department shall, in connection with the police department, have the power and
authority to enforce the laws of the state and city ordinances during period of
declared emergency and shall at such time have the further power to make
arrests for violations of such laws or ordinances.
(Code 1976, 4-1-4; Ord. No. 584, §1, 7-1-03)
Sections 8-6 to 8-49 Reserved.
DIVISION 2. DISASTERS & EMERGENCIES
Sec. 8-50. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   a)   The term "disaster area" means the scene or location of a natural or
military disaster; an explosion; an aircraft accident; a fire; a railroad
accident; acts of terrorism; contamination caused by hazardous radiological,
chemical, or biological agents or substances; or a major traffic accident.
   b)   The term "authorized person" shall include all state, county and
municipal police and fire personnel; hospital and ambulance crews; National
Guard and Civil Defense personnel ordered into the disaster area by proper
authority; federal civil and military personnel on official business; persons
who enter the disaster area to maintain or restore facilities for the provision
of water, electricity, communications, or transportation to the public; and
such other officials having a valid reason to enter said disaster area.
(Ord. No. 584, § 1, 7-1-03); State law reference - Title 12, O.S. § 1210.
Sec. 8-51. Emergency plan adopted.
   (a)   The Village Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) is hereby adopted by
reference. The EOP shall provide a framework in which the departments of the
City can plan and perform their respective emergency functions during a
disaster or national emergency. Updates and revisions of the EOP shall be
adopted by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. No. 584, § 1, 7-1-03)
   (b)   The National Interagency Incident Command System (NIMS) is hereby
adopted by reference. (Resolution 08-16-2005; Resolution 08-20-2018 (C))
Sec. 8-52. State of emergency.
   (a)   The emergency powers conferred in this division shall become effective
immediately upon the issuance of a proclamation of the existence of a state of
emergency by:
   1) The Mayor; or
   2) The city council;
   (b)   If the urgency of the situation requires, the city manager is
authorized to declare the state of emergency until such time as the city
council may meet and determine the state of emergency exists. The powers
conferred in this division are limited to the duration of the state of
emergency.
   (c)   The proclaimed state of emergency shall be terminated either by the
city manager or upon adoption of a resolution by the city council.
(Ord. No. 584, § 1, 7-1-03); City code cross-reference: 12-136 et seq.
Sec. 8-53. Following of emergency vehicles unlawful.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow any emergency vehicle or to purposefully drive to
any location on or near a street where a disaster area exists.
(Ord. No. 584, § 1, 7-1-03);
City code cross-reference: Sections 13-300,
13-363;
State law reference - Title 12, O.S. § 1213.
Sec. 8-54. Proceeding to or remaining at disaster area unlawful-Removal of
objects.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except an authorized person to proceed
to or to remain at a disaster area for the purpose of being a bystander,
spectator, sightseer, or souvenir hunter; or for any such person to take or
remove from the disaster area, or disturb or move any material, objects,
equipment, or thing either directly or indirectly relating or pertaining to the
disaster.
(Ord. No. 584, § 1, 7-1-03);
State law reference - Title 12, O.S. § 1212.
Sec. 8-55. Emergency powers enumerated.
   (a)   Emergency Purchases: When a state of emergency has been declared, the
city manager and/or designee(s) shall be authorized to make emergency purchases
of goods and services and enter into contracts as deemed necessary to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the public and to protect public or private
property from further harm or damage. Emergency purchases of goods and services
shall not be subject to competitive bidding or other purchasing requirements
established by this code. Contracts pursuant to this section may be entered
into by the city manager and/or designee(s) without the prior approval of the
City Council.
   (b)   Curfew: When a state of emergency has been declared, the city manager
or his designee(s) may establish a curfew as deemed necessary for the
preservation of the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
   (c)   Summary Abatements: When a state of emergency has been declared, the
City of The Village, its agents, employees, contractors, and assigns are hereby
empowered to enter onto public and private property to summarily remove
conditions that are deemed an imminent threat to the life, safety, health, and
welfare of the city, its residents, or the general public. The City of The
Village, its agents, employees, contractors, and assigns shall suffer neither
liability nor be responsible for any damages caused to private or public
property during the abatement of existing and imminent threats top the safety,
health and welfare of the city, its residents, or the general public.
   (d)   Marshaling of Resources: In the event of a declared emergency, the
Director of Civil Defense, after due authorization from the mayor or city
manager, shall have the power and authority to enforce all rules and
regulations relating to civil defense and emergency management and, if
necessary, take control of transportation, communications, stocks of fuel,
food, clothing, medicine, and public utilities for the purpose of protecting
the civilian population. Said director shall cooperate in every way with the
activities of the governmental agencies or civil defense organizations; and if
required by the mayor or city manager shall have control over any and all funds
allocated from any source for the purpose of alleviating distress conditions in
the city.
   (e)   Prohibitions or restrictions: In the event of a declared emergency,
the mayor or city council may, at the time the emergency is declared by
proclamation or resolution, or by subsequent proclamation or resolution,
prohibit, require, or restrict:
   (1)   a designated number of persons from assembling or gathering on the
public streets, parks, or other areas either public or private;
   (2)   the sale, purchase, or dispensing of alcoholic beverages;
   (3)   the sale, purchase, or dispensing of other commodities or goods;
   (4)   the wearing of face coverings in certain public places or settings.
   (5)   such other activities as the mayor or city council reasonably believes
should be prohibited or restricted to help preserve or maintain life, health,
property, or the public peace.
By imposing any such prohibitions or restrictions, the mayor or city council
may impose them for such times, upon such conditions and subject to such
penalties, and with such exceptions and in such areas as the mayor or city
council from time to time deems necessary."
(Code 1976, 4-1-1, 4-1-3; Ord. No. 584, § 1, 7-1-03);
City code cross-references: 12-136 et seq. seq., 15-26; Ord. No. 750, § 1 03-
17-2020; Ord. No. 753, § 1 07-20-2020)
Sec. 8-56. Penalty:
   Persons found in violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty
of a Class A offense, punishable by a fine not exceeding Seven Hundred and
Fifty Dollars ($750.00), or by imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60) days, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. No. 584, § 1, 7-1-03);
State law reference - Title 12, O.S. § 1213.
Sections 8-57 to 8-99 Reserved
CHAPTER 9
CITY OF THE VILLAGE, OKLAHOMA FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE
ARTICLE I
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND METHODS
SECTION A. STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
   The Legislature of the State of Oklahoma has in (statutes) 82 O.S. §§1601-
1618, as amended, Chapter 23 delegated the responsibility of local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the
City of The Village, Oklahoma, ordains the following:
SECTION B. FINDINGS OF FACT
   (1)   The flood hazard areas of the City of The Village are subject to
periodic inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (2)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
SECTION C. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
   It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   1.   Protect human life and health;
   2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
SECTION D. METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES
   1.   In order to accomplish its purposes, this ordinance uses the following
methods:
   a)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   b)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   c)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   d)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   e)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
ARTICLE II
DEFINITIONS
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this Chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE - Structures which are on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure (such as garages and storage sheds).
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD - is the land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The
area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). After
detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the
FIRM for The Village, Zone A is refined into Zones A and AE.
BASE FLOOD - means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION - means the elevation in feet above mean sea level of the
Base Flood or 1% chance flood.
BASEMENT - means any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
BOARD - means the Oklahoma Water Resources Board.
CRITICAL FEATURE - means an integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT - means any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING - means a non-basement building built, in the case of a
building in Zones A, AE and X, to have the top of the elevated floor adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones, A, AE, and
X, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or
solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movement of flood waters.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION - means for the purposes of determining rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of
the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.
"Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures."
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION- means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD OR FLOODING - means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) - means an official map of a community, on
which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY - is the official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface
elevation of the base flood, as well as the floodway width, section area and
mean velocity.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR - means a person accredited by the Board and
designated by the City Manager, to administer and implement laws and
regulations relating to the management of the floodplains.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA - means any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of flooding).
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT - means the operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS - means zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM - means those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
FLOOD PROOFING - means any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures, and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY) - means the channel of a river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface
elevation more than a designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE - means a use that cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The
term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for
the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship
repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE - means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE - means any structure that is:
   1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of Interior; or
   4.   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
   a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior or;
   b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE - means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM - means a flood protection system, which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure, and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR - means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of Section 60.3 of the National
Flood insurance Program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME - means a structure transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL - means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program,
the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION - means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE - means a vehicle which is:
   1.   Built on a single chassis;
   2.   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
   3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use
START OF CONSTRUCTION - (for other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE - means a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE - means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT - means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50
percent of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures that have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions or
   2.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure."
VARIANCE - is a grant of relief to a person from the requirement of these
regulations or ordinance when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary
hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a
manner otherwise prohibited by these regulations. (For full requirements see
Section 60.6 of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
VIOLATION - means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in Section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10)
or (d)(3) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation
is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION - means the height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
ARTICLE III
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION A. LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES
   This floodplain management ordinance shall apply to all areas of special
flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the City of The Village, Oklahoma.
SECTION B. BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood
Insurance Study for Oklahoma County, Oklahoma and Incorporated areas dated
December 18, 2009, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance. This
ordinance shall go into effect on December 18, 2009, and not before.
SECTION C. ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
   A Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this floodplain management ordinance.
SECTION D. COMPLIANCE
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other
applicable regulations.
SECTION E. ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS
   This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and
any other ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
SECTION F. INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions
shall be:
   1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State
statutes.
SECTION G. WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY
   The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This ordinance does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on these
regulations, or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
ARTICLE IV
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION A. DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Manager of The Village appoints the Building Official as the
Floodplain Administrator that will administer and implement the provisions of
this ordinance and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
SECTION B. DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of these regulations.
   2.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building site,
including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of these regulations.
   4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State, or local governmental
agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval are required.
   5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency, the Oklahoma Water Resources Board, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   8.   Shall require the developer or permittee to provide the base flood
elevation data when it has not been provided in accordance with Article III,
Section B, in order to administer the provisions of Article V.
   9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones AE on the
community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community.
   10.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones AE on the community's FIRM which increases the water
surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that the
community first complies with 44 CFR, Chapter 1, Section 65.12.
   11.   Become accredited by the Board in accordance with Title 82 O.S. §§
1601-1618, as amended.
   12.   After a disaster or other type of damage occurrence to structures in
the City of The Village, Oklahoma, shall determine if the residential & non-
residential structures & manufactured homes have been substantially damaged and
enforce the substantial improvement requirement.
SECTION C. PERMIT PROCEDURES
A.   Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain
Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited
to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures,
including the placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the
foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the
following information is required:
   1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
   2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be flood proofed;
   3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that
the nonresidential flood proofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of Article V, Section B (2);
   4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage
will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with Article
IV, Section (B) (1).
B.   Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain Administrator
shall be based on all of the provisions of these regulations and the following
relevant factors:
   1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
   7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
   8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
SECTION D. VARIANCE PROCEDURES
   1.   The appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this ordinance.
   2.   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this ordinance.
   3.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   4.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   5.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this ordinance.
   6.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section C (2) of this Article
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   7.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
ordinance, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
ordinance (Article I, Section C).
   8.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   9.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   10.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
   a)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   b)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
   1)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
   2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant, and
   3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws, regulations, or ordinances.
   c)   A written notice will be provided to any person granted a variance to
build a structure below the base flood elevation. This notice will inform the
variance applicant that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with
the increased risk resulting from permitting the structure to be built lower
than the base flood elevation.
   11.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
   a)   The criteria outlined in Article IV, Section D (1)-(9) are met, and
   b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
   12.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a petition with the
floodplain board, accompanied by a filing fee of as set by Resolution of the
City Council.
   13.   A copy of any variance issued shall be sent to the OWRB within in
fifteen (15) days of issuance.
ARTICLE V
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION A. GENERAL STANDARDS
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
   7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
SECTION B. SPECIFIC STANDARDS
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions where base flood
elevation data has been provided as set forth in (i) Article 3, Section B, (ii)
Article 4, Section B (8), or (iii) Article 5, Section C (3), the following
provisions are required:
   1.   Residential Construction - new construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated at or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in
Article IV, Section C (1) a., is satisfied.
   2.   Nonresidential Construction - new construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at or above the base
flood level. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
elevation certificates that includes the specific elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) to which each structure has been elevated.
   3.   Enclosures - new construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
   a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be
provided.
   b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
   c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   4.   Manufactured Homes -
   a)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on the
City of The Village's FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage and have the bottom of the I beam elevated at or above
the base flood elevation. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured
homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces
and a licensed installer shall install the home and place the required placard
on the dwelling.
   b)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones AE on the community's FIRM on sites (i) outside of a
manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the bottom of the I beam
of the manufactured home is elevated at or above the base flood elevation and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. Also, a licensed installer shall
install the home.
   c)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved on
sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones AE on the
community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of paragraph (4) of
this section be elevated so that the bottom of the I-beam of the manufactured
home is at or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement support the manufactured home chassis and also installed by a
licensed installer that complies with state law.
   5.   Recreational Vehicles - Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A and AE on the community's FIRM either:
   a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
   b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
   b.   Meet the permit requirements of Article IV, Section C (1), and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" in paragraph (4)
of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   6.   Accessory Structures -
   a)   Structure is low valued and represents a minimal investment.
   b)   Structure shall be small and not exceed 600 square feet in size.
   c)   Structure shall be unfinished on the interior.
   d)   Structure can be used only for parking and limited storage.
   e)   Structure shall not be used for human habitation (including work,
sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas).
   f)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment must be
elevated to or above the BFE or flood proofed.
   g)   Structure is constructed and placed on building site so as to offer the
minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
   h)   Structure is designed to have low flood damage potential i.e.,
constructed with flood resistance materials.
   i)   Structure is firmly anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   j)   Floodway requirements must be met in the construction of the structure.
   k)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below the BFE.
   l)   Structure is to be located so as not to cause damage to adjacent and
nearby structures.
SECTION C. STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS
   1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with Article I, Sections B, C, and D
of this ordinance.
   2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development
Permit requirements of Article III, Section C; Article IV, Section C; and the
provisions of Article V of this ordinance.
   3.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is
lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to Article III, Section B or Article
IV, Section B (8) of this ordinance.
   4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   5.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
SECTION D. FLOODWAYS
Floodways - located within areas of special flood hazard established in Article
III, Section B, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris,
potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
   1.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   2.   If Article V, Section E (1) above is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of Article 5.
   3.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community complies with all of 44 CFR
Chapter 1, Section 65.12.
SECTION F. SEVERABILITY
   If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this Ordinance is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance.
PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this ordinance
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall be punishable as a Class A Offense,
subject to a fine up to $750 and/or up to 60 days in jail. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the City Council of City of The Village or the City
Attorney from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
CERTIFICATION
   It is hereby found and declared by the City of The Village City Council that
severe flooding has occurred in the past within its jurisdiction and will
certainly occur within the future; that flooding is likely to result in
infliction of serious personal injury or death, and is likely to result in
substantial injury or destruction of property within its jurisdiction; in order
to effectively comply with the minimum standards for coverage under the
National Flood Insurance Program; and in order to effectively remedy the
situation described herein, it is necessary that this ordinance become
effective on December 18, 2009 and not before.
(Ord. 647, §1, 10-20-2009)
ARTICLE VI
DIVISION 1. NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGES TO THE STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Sec. 9-200. Purpose/Intent.
The purpose of this Article is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of The Village through the regulation of non-storm
water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable
as required by federal and state law. This Article establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives
of this Article are:
   1.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user.
   2.   To prohibit Illicit Connections and Discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system
   3.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance,
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this Article.
Sec. 9-201. Definitions.
For the purposes of this Article, the following shall mean:
Authorized Enforcement Agency. The employees or designees of the director of
the municipal agency designated to enforce this Article.
Best Management Practices (BMPs). The schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good house keeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
storm water, receiving waters, or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
Clean Water Act. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et
seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Construction Activity. Activities subject to NPDES Construction Permits include
construction projects resulting in land disturbance of five (5) acres or more.
Beginning in March 2003, NPDES Storm Water Phase II permits will be required
for construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one (1) acre or
more. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, and demolition.
Hazardous Materials. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
Illegal Discharge. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as may be otherwise exempted by this Article.
Illicit Connections. An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following: Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not
limited to any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge including
sewage, processed wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system
and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency or, any drain or
conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the storm
drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent
records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Industrial Activity. Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as defined
in 40 CFR, Section 122.26 (b) (14).
MS4 means a municipal separate storm sewer system.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Storm Water Discharge
Permit means a permit issued by EPA (or by a State under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group, or general area-wide basis.
Non-Storm Water Discharge. Any discharge to the storm drainage system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
Person means any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner's agent.
Pollutant means anything, which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants
may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and
other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal
wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Premises. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Storm Drainage System. Publicly owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention, and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
Storm Water. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan. A document which describes the Best
Management Practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, Storm Water Conveyance
Systems, and/or Receiving Waters to the Maximum Extent Practicable.
Wastewater. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm water,
discharged from a facility.
Sec. 9-202. Applicability.
This Article shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated
on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by an
authorized enforcement agency.
Sec. 9-203. Responsibility for Administration.
The Director of Public Works shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this Article. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the Director of
the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
Sec. 9-204. Ultimate Responsibility.
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this Article are
minimum standards; therefore, this Article does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
Sec. 9-205. Discharge Prohibitions.
a)   Prohibition of Illegal Discharges.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the municipal storm
drain system or watercourses any materials, including but not limited to
pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a
violation of applicable water quality standards, other than storm water.
The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm
drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions established by
this Article: water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape
irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground
water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water,
foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering
systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, non-
commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM chlorine), fire
fighting activities, and any other water source not containing Pollutants.
1.   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency as
being necessary to protect public health and safety.
2.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge but requires a verbal notification
to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the test.
3.   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge permitted
under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
b)   Prohibition of Illicit Connections.
1.   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this Article if the person
connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection to
continue.
Sec. 9-206. Suspension of MS4 Access.
a)   Suspension due to Illicit Discharges in Emergency Situations.
The Director of Public Works may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge, which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
MS4 or Waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
Waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
b)   Suspension due to the Detection of Illicit Discharge.
Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this Article may have their
MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the
authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises
terminated pursuant to this Section, without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency.
Sec. 9-207. Industrial or Construction Activity Discharges.
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm water
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
Director of Public Works prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
Sec. 9-208. Monitoring of Discharges.
a)   Applicability.
This section applies to all facilities that have storm water discharges
associated with industrial activity, including construction activity.
b)   Access to Facilities.
The Public Works Director or his designee shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities subject to regulation under this Article as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this Article. If a discharger has
security measures in force, which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
1.   Facility operators shall allow the Director of Public Works or his
designee ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept
under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
2.   The Director of Public Works shall have the right to set up on any
permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the
facility's storm water discharge.
3.   The Director of Public Works has the right to require the discharger to
install monitoring equipment, as necessary. The facility's sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to
measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their
accuracy.
4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the Director of Public Works and
shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
operator.
5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Director of Public Works access to a
permitted facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of this
Article. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to
discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the
permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this Article.
6.   If the Director of Public Works has been refused access to any part of the
premises from which storm water is discharged, and he/she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
Article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this Article
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
Sec. 9-209. Requirements to Prevent, Control, and Reduce Storm Water Pollutants
by the Use of Best Management Practices.
The Director of Public Works will adopt requirements identifying Best
Management Practices for any activity, operation, or facility, which may cause
or contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm drain
system, or waters of the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural
and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated
with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed in
compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a
storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with
requirements of the NPDES permit.
Sec. 9-210. Watercourse Protection.
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
Sec. 9-211. Notification of Spills.
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting, or may result, in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of
the U.S. said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the Director of Public Works within three
business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials
emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator
of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the
discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall
be retained for at least three years.
Sec. 9-212. Enforcement.
a)   Notice of Violation.
Whenever the Director of Public Works finds that a person has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this Article, the authorized
enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. Such notice may require without limitation:
1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or contamination
hazards and the restoration of any affected property; and
5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency, or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
Sec. 9-213. Appeal of Notice of Violation.
Any person receiving a Notice of Violation may appeal the determination of the
authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within ten
(10) days from the date of the Notice of Violation. Hearing on the appeal
before the appropriate authority or his/her designee shall take place within
fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The
decision of the municipal authority or their designee shall be final.
Sec. 9-214. Enforcement Measures after Appeal.
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the Notice of Violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten (10) days
of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent, or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
Sec. 9-215. Cost of Abatement of the Violation.
Within ten (10) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within ten (10) days. If the amount due is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by
the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become
a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this article shall become liable to the city by reason of such
violation.
Sec. 9-216. Injunctive Relief.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this Article. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this Article, the authorized enforcement
agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the
person from activities, which would create further violations or compelling the
person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
Sec. 9-217. Appeal of Notice of Violation.
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this
Article, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory action, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc.
Sec. 9-218. Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance.
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
Article is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
Sec. 9-219. Criminal Prosecution.
Any person that has violated or continues to violate this Article shall be
guilty of a Class A Offense and shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the
fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of Seven
Hundred and Fifty ($750.00) dollars per violation per day and/or imprisonment
for a period of time not to exceed sixty (60) days.
The authorized enforcement agency may recover all attorneys' fees, court costs,
and other expenses associated with enforcement of this Article, including
sampling and monitoring expenses.
Sec. 9-220. Remedies Not Exclusive.
The remedies listed in this Article are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and it is within
the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. No. 578, §1, 10-1-02)
Secs. 9-221-9-249 Reserved.
DIVISION 2. EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
Sec. 9-250.   Introduction/Purpose.
1.   During the construction process, soil is highly vulnerable to erosion by
wind and water. Eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing water quality
and causing the siltation of aquatic habitat for fish and other desirable
species. Eroded soil also necessitates repair of sewers and ditches and the
dredging of lakes. In addition, clearing and grading during construction cause
the loss of native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and aquatic habitat.
2.   As a result, the purpose of this local regulation is to safeguard persons,
protect property, and prevent damage to the environment in The Village. This
ordinance will also promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating, and
controlling the design, construction, use, and maintenance of any development
or other activity that disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the
movement of earth or land in The Village.
Sec. 9-251.    Definitions.
   Certified Contractor means a person who has received training and is
licensed by The City of The Village to inspect and maintain erosion and
sediment control practices.
   Clearing means any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   Drainage Way means any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the
site.
   Erosion Control means a measure that prevents erosion.
   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan means a set of plans prepared by or under
the direction of a licensed professional engineer indicating the specific
measures and sequencing to be used to control sediment and erosion on a
development site during and after construction.
   Grading means the excavation or fill of material, including the resulting
conditions thereof.
   Perimeter Control means a barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site
by filtering sediment-laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or basin.
   Phasing means clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with the
stabilization of each phase completed before the clearing of the next.
   Sediment Control means measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving
the site.
   Site means a parcel of land or a contiguous combination thereof, where
grading work is performed as a single unified operation.
   Site Development means a permit issued by the municipality for the
construction or alteration of ground.
   Permit means improvements and structures for the control of erosion, runoff,
and grading.
   Stabilization means the use of practices that prevent exposed soil from
eroding.
   Start of Construction means the first land-disturbing activity associated
with a development, including land preparation such as clearing, grading, and
filling; installation of streets and walkways; excavation for basements,
footings, piers, or foundations; erection of temporary forms; and installation
of accessory buildings such as garages.
   Watercourse means any body of water, including, but not limited to lakes,
ponds, rivers, streams, and bodies of water delineated by The Village.
   Waterway means a channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse or to
the public storm drain.
Sec. 9-252.   Permits.
A)   No person shall be granted a site development permit for land-disturbing
activity that would require the uncovering of 43,560 or more square feet
without the approval of an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan by the City of The
Village.
B)   No site development permit is required for the following activities:
1)   Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the protection of
life, property, or natural resources.
2)   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a permitted main
or accessory use.
C)   Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner or
developer of the site and of any consulting firm retained by the applicant
together with the name of the applicant's principal contact at such firm and
shall be accompanied by a filing fee in the amount of two-hundred and fifty
($250.00) dollars.
D)   Each application shall include a statement that any land clearing,
construction, or development involving the movement of earth shall be in
accordance with the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan and that a certified
contractor shall be on site on all days when construction or grading activity
takes place.
E)   The applicant will be required to file with the City of The Village a
faithful performance bond, letter of credit, or other improvement security in
an amount deemed sufficient to cover all costs of improvements, landscaping,
maintenance of improvements for such period as specified by the City of The
Village, and engineering and inspection costs to cover the cost of failure or
repair of improvements installed on the site.
Sec. 9-253.    Review and approval.
A)   The City of The Village will review each application for a site
development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
regulation. Within 30 days after receiving an application, the City of The
Village shall, in writing:
1)   Approve the permit application;
2)   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable conditions as
may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this regulation, and
issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
3)   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the reason(s) and procedure
for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
B)   Failure of the City of The Village to act on an original or revised
application within 30 days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to proceed
in accordance with the plans as filed unless such time is extended by agreement
between the applicant and the City of The Village. Pending preparation and
approval of a revised plan, development activities shall be allowed to proceed
in accordance with conditions established by the City of The Village.
Sec. 9-254.   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan.
A)   The Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall include the following:
i.   A natural resources map identifying soils, forest cover, and resources
protected under other chapters of this code.
ii.   A sequence of construction of the development site, including stripping
and clearing; rough grading; construction of utilities, infrastructure, and
buildings; and final grading and landscaping. Sequencing shall identify the
expected date on which clearing will begin, the estimated duration of exposure
of cleared areas, areas of clearing, installation of temporary erosion and
sediment control measures, and establishment of permanent vegetation.
iii.   All erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
objectives of this local regulation throughout all phases of construction and
after completion of development of the site. Depending upon the complexity of
the project, the drafting of intermediate plans may be required at the close of
each season.
iv.   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seedbed preparation,
expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer application, and
kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent vegetative
control measures.
v.   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities, including easements and
estimates of the cost of maintenance.
B)   Modifications to the plan shall be processed and approved or disapproved
in the same manner as Section 9-253 of this chapter, and may be authorized by
the City of The Village by written authorization to the permittee, and shall
include:
i.   Major amendments of the erosion and sediment control plan as submitted to
the City of The Village.
ii.   Field modifications of a minor nature.
Sec. 9-255.   Design Requirements.
A)   Grading, erosion control practices, sediment control practices, and
waterway crossings shall meet the design criteria set forth in the most recent
version of The Village Erosion and Sediment Control Manual and shall be
adequate to prevent transportation of sediment from the site to the
satisfaction of the City of The Village. Cut and fill slopes shall be no
greater than 2:1, except as approved by the City of The Village to meet other
community or environmental objectives.
B)   Clearing and grading of natural resources, such as forests and wetlands,
shall not be permitted, except when in compliance with all other chapters of
this Code. Clearing techniques that retain natural vegetation and drainage
patterns, as described in The Village Erosion and Sediment Control Manual,
shall be used to the satisfaction of the City of The Village.
C)   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control devices,
shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed and have
been stabilized.
D)   Phasing shall be required on all sites disturbing greater than 30 acres,
with the size of each phase to be established at plan review and as approved by
the City of The Village.
E)   Erosion control requirements shall include the following:
   1)   Soil stabilization shall be completed within five days of clearing or
inactivity in construction.
   2)   If seeding or another vegetative erosion control method is used, it
shall become established within two weeks, or the City of The Village may
require the site to be reseeded or a non-vegetative option employed.
   3)   Special techniques that meet the design criteria outlined in The
Village Erosion and Sediment Control Manual, on steep slopes or in drainage
ways shall be used to ensure stabilization.
   4)   Soil stockpiles must be stabilized or covered at the end of each
workday.
   5)   The entire site must be stabilized, using a heavy mulch layer or
another method that does not require germination to control erosion, at the
close of the construction season.
   6)   Techniques shall be employed to prevent the blowing of dust or sediment
from the site.
   7)   Techniques that divert upland runoff past disturbed slopes shall be
employed.
F)   Sediment controls requirements shall include:
   1)   Settling basins, sediment traps, or tanks and perimeter controls.
   2)   Settling basins that are designed in a manner that allows adaptation to
provide long-term storm water management, if required by the City of The
Village.
   3)   Protection for adjacent properties by the use of a vegetated buffer
strip in combination with perimeter controls.
G)   Waterway and watercourse protection requirements shall include:
   1)   A temporary stream crossing installed and approved by the City of The
Village if a wet watercourse will be crossed regularly during construction.
   2)   Stabilization of the watercourse channel before, during, and after any
in-channel work.
   3)   All on-site storm water conveyance channels designed according to the
criteria outlined in The Village Erosion and Sediment Control Manual.
   4)   Stabilization adequate to prevent erosion located at the outlets of all
pipes and paved channels
H)   Construction site access requirements shall include:
   1)   Temporary access road provided at all sites.
   2)   Other measures required by the City of The Village in order to ensure
that sediment is not tracked onto public streets by construction vehicles or
washed into storm drains.
Sec. 9-256.   Inspection.
A)   The City of The Village or designated agent shall make inspections as
hereinafter required and either shall approve that portion of the work
completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to comply with
the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan as approved. Plans for grading,
stripping, excavating, and filling work bearing the stamp of approval of the
City of The Village shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the
work. To obtain inspections, the permittee shall notify the City of The Village
at least two working days before the following:
   1)   Start of construction
   2)   Installation of sediment and erosion measures
   3)   Completion of site clearing
   4)   Completion of rough grading
   5)   Completion of final grading
   6)   Close of the construction season
   7)   Completion of final landscaping
B)   The permittee or his/her agent shall make regular inspections of all
control measures in accordance with the inspection schedule outlined on the
approved Erosion and Sediment Control Plan(s). The purpose of such inspections
will be to determine the overall effectiveness of the control plan and the need
for additional control measures. All inspections shall be documented in written
form and submitted to the City of The Village at the time interval specified in
the approved permit.
C)   The City of The Village or its designated agent shall enter the property
of the applicant as deemed necessary to make regular inspections to ensure the
validity of the reports filed under Section B.
Sec. 9-257.   Enforcement.
   1)   Stop-Work Order; Revocation of Permit. In the event that any person
holding a site development permit pursuant to this ordinance violates the terms
of the permit or implements site development in such a manner as to materially
adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of persons residing or working
in the neighborhood or development site so as to be materially detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the
neighborhood, the City of The Village may suspend or revoke the site
development permit.
   2)   Violation and Penalties. No person shall construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, or maintain any grading, excavation, or fill, or cause the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of any terms of this ordinance. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and each day during which any violation of any of the provisions of
this ordinance is committed, continued, or permitted, shall constitute a
separate offense. Upon conviction of any such violation, such person,
partnership, or corporation shall be guilty of a Class A Offense punishable by
a fine of not more than $750.00 and or sixty days in jail or both such fine and
incarceration. Each day that a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate
offense. In addition to any other penalty authorized by this section, any
person, partnership, or corporation convicted of violating any of the
provisions of this ordinance shall be required to bear the expense of such
restoration.
Sec. 9-258.    Severability
The provisions and sections of this ordinance shall be deemed to be separable,
and the invalidity of any portion of this ordinance shall not affect the
validity of the remainder.
Sec. 9-259. Repealer. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed.
Sec. 9-260.    Emergency.
Whereas, it being necessary for the preservation of the public health, peace,
and safety of the City of The Village, Oklahoma, an emergency is declared to
exist and by reason thereof this ordinance shall take full force from and after
its adoption.
Secs 9-261-9-274 Reserved.
DIVISION 3. POST CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER RUNOFF
Sec. 9-275.    General Provisions
   1.   Findings of Fact
   It is hereby determined that:
   Land development projects and associated increases in impervious cover alter
the hydrologic response of local watersheds and increase storm water runoff
rates and volumes, flooding, stream channel erosion, and sediment transport and
deposition;
   This storm water runoff contributes to increased quantities of water-borne
pollutants, and; Storm water runoff, soil erosion and non-point source
pollution can be controlled and minimized through the regulation of storm water
runoff from development sites.
   Therefore, the City of The Village establishes this set of water quality and
quantity policies applicable to all surface waters to provide reasonable
guidance for the regulation of storm water runoff for the purpose of protecting
local water resources from degradation. It is determined that the regulation of
storm water runoff discharges from land development projects and other
construction activities in order to control and minimize increases in storm
water runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, stream channel erosion, and non-
point source pollution associated with storm water runoff is in the public
interest and will prevent threats to public health and safety.
   2.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this ordinance is to establish minimum storm water management
requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the general health, safety,
and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within this jurisdiction. This
ordinance seeks to meet that purpose through the following objectives:
   a)   Minimize increases in storm water runoff from any development in order
to reduce flooding, siltation, increases in stream temperature, and stream bank
erosion and maintain the integrity of stream channels;
   b)   Minimize increases in non-point source pollution caused by storm water
runoff from development, which would otherwise degrade local water quality.
   c)   Minimize the total annual volume of surface water runoff, which flows
from any specific site during and following development to not exceed the pre-
development hydrologic regime to the maximum extent practicable.
   d)   Reduce storm water runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and non-point
source pollution, wherever possible, through storm water management controls
and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained and pose
no threat to public safety.
   3.   Applicability
   This ordinance shall be applicable to all subdivision or site plan
applications equal to or exceeding 43,560 square feet in area, unless eligible
for an exemption or granted a waiver by the City of The Village under the
specifications of Section 9-278 of this ordinance. The ordinance also applies
to land development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability
criteria if such activities are part of a larger common plan of development
that meets the following applicability criteria, even though multiple separate
and distinct land development activities may take place at different times on
different schedules. In addition, all plans must also be reviewed by local
environmental protection officials to ensure that established water quality
standards will be maintained during and after development of the site and that
post construction runoff levels are consistent with any local and regional
watershed plans.
   To prevent the adverse impacts of storm water runoff, the City of The
Village has developed a set of performance standards that must be met at new
development sites. These standards apply to any construction activity
disturbing 43,560 or more square feet of land. The following activities may be
exempt from these storm water performance criteria:
   a)   Any agricultural activity, which is consistent with an approved soil
conservation plan.
   b)   Additions or modifications to existing single-family structures.
   c)   Developments that do not disturb more than 43,560 square feet of land,
provided they are not part of a larger common development plan;
   d)   Repairs to any storm water treatment practice deemed necessary by the
City of The Village.
   When a site development plan is submitted that qualifies as a redevelopment
project as defined in Section 9-276 of this ordinance, decisions on permitting
and on-site storm water requirements shall be governed by special storm water
sizing criteria found in the current storm water design manual. These criteria
are dependent on the amount of impervious area created by the redevelopment and
its impact on water quality. Final authorization of all redevelopment projects
will be determined after a review by the City of The Village.
   4.   Compatibility with Other Permit and Ordinance Requirements
   This ordinance is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
other ordinance, rule or regulation, stature, or other provision of law. The
requirements of this ordinance should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this ordinance imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards
for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
   5.   Severability
   If the provisions of any article, section, subsection, paragraph,
subdivision, or clause of this ordinance shall be judged invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such order of judgment shall not affect or invalidate
the remainder of any article, section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision, or
clause of this ordinance.
   6.   Development of a Storm Water Design Manual.
   The City of The Village may furnish additional policy, criteria and
information including specifications and standards, for the proper
implementation of the requirements of this ordinance and may provide such
information in the form of a Storm Water Design Manual.
   This manual will include a list of acceptable storm water treatment
practices, including the specific design criteria and operation and maintenance
requirements for each storm water practice. The manual may be updated and
expanded from time to time, at the discretion of the local review authority,
based on improvements in engineering, science, monitoring and local maintenance
experience. Storm water treatment practices that are designed and constructed
in accordance with these design and sizing criteria will be presumed to meet
the minimum water quality performance standards.
Sec. 9-276.   Definitions.
   "Accelerated Erosion" means erosion caused by development activities that
exceeds the natural processes by which the surface of the land is worn away by
the action of water, wind, or chemical action.
   "Applicant" means a property owner or agent of a property owner who has
filed an application for a storm water management permit.
   "Building" means any structure, either temporary or permanent, having walls
and a roof, designed for the shelter of any person, animal, or property, and
occupying more than 100 square feet of area.
"Channel" means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and
banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
   "Dedication" means the deliberate appropriation of property by its owner for
general public use.
   "Detention" means the temporary storage of storm runoff in a storm water
management practice with the goals of controlling peak discharge rates and
providing gravity settling of pollutants.
   "Detention Facility" means a detention basin or alternative structure
designed for the purpose of temporary storage of stream flow or surface runoff
and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
   "Developer" means a person who undertakes land disturbance activities.
   "Drainage Easement" means a legal right granted by a landowner to a grantee
allowing the use of private land for storm water management purposes.
   "Erosion and Sediment Control Plan" means a plan that is designed to
minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during
construction activities.
   "Fee in Lieu" means a payment of money in place of meeting all or part of
the storm water performance standards required by this ordinance.
   "Hotspot" means an area where land use or activities generate highly
contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those
typically found in storm water.
   "Hydrologic Soil Group (HSG)" means a Natural Resource Conservation Service
classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential
groups. The groups range from "A" soils, with high permeability and little
runoff production, to D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce
much more runoff.
   "Impervious Cover" means those surfaces that cannot effectively infiltrate
rainfall (e.g., building rooftops, pavement, sidewalks, driveways, etc).
   "Industrial Storm water Permit" means a National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit issued to a commercial industry or group of
industries, which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial
storm water discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
   "Infiltration" means the process of percolating storm water into the
subsoil.
   "Infiltration Facility" means any structure or device designed to infiltrate
retained water to the subsurface. These facilities may be above grade or below
grade.
   "Jurisdictional Wetland" means an area that is inundated or saturated by
surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support
a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
   "Land Disturbance Activity" means any activity, which changes the volume or
peak flow discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface. This may
include the grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil,
placement of fill materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of
vegetation, or any activity, which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion
or piping of any natural or man-made watercourse.
   "Landowner" means the legal or beneficial owner of land, including those
holding the right to purchase or lease the land, or any other person holding
proprietary rights in the land.
   "Maintenance Agreement" means a legally recorded document that acts as a
property deed restriction, and which provides for long-term maintenance of
storm water management practices.
   "Non-point Source Pollution" means pollution from any source other than from
any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and shall include, but not
be limited to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining,
construction, subsurface disposal, and urban runoff sources.
   "Offset Fee" means a monetary compensation paid to a local government for
failure to meet pollutant load reduction targets.
   "Off-Site Facility" means a storm water management measure located outside
the subject property boundary described in the permit application for land
development activity.
   "On-Site Facility" means a storm water management measure located within the
subject property boundary described in the permit application for land
development activity.
"Recharge" means the replenishment of underground water reserves.
   "Redevelopment" means any construction, alteration or improvement exceeding
43,560 square feet in areas where existing land use is high density commercial,
industrial, institutional, or multi-family residential.
   "Stop Work Order" means an order issued which requires that all construction
activity on a site be stopped.
   "Storm Water Management" means the use of structural or non-structural
practices that are designed to reduce storm water runoff pollutant loads,
discharge volumes, peak flow discharge rates and detrimental changes in stream
temperature that affect water quality and habitat.
   "Storm Water Retrofit" means a storm water management practice designed for
an existing development site that previously had either no storm water
management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the storm water
management requirements of the site.
   "Storm water Runoff" means flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from
precipitation.
   "Storm water Treatment Practices (STPs)" means measures, either structural
or nonstructural, that are determined to be the most effective, practical means
of preventing or reducing point source or non-point source pollution inputs to
storm water runoff and water bodies.
   "Water Quality Volume (WQv)" means the storage needed to capture and treat
90% of the average annual storm water runoff volume. Numerically (WQv) will
vary as a function of long-term rainfall statistical data.
   "Watercourse" means a permanent or intermittent stream or other body of
water, either natural or man-made, which gathers or carries surface water.
Sec. 9-277.   Permit Procedures and Requirements.
   1.   Permit Required.
   No landowner or land operator shall receive any of the building, grading or
other land development permits required for land disturbance activities without
first meeting the requirements of this ordinance prior to commencing the
proposed activity.
   2.   Application Requirements
   Unless specifically excluded by this ordinance, any landowner or operator
desiring a permit for a land disturbance activity shall submit to the City of
The Village a permit application on a form provided for that purpose. Unless
otherwise excepted by this ordinance, a permit application must be accompanied
by the following in order that the permit application be considered: a storm
water management concept plan, a maintenance agreement, and a non-refundable
permit review fee. The storm water management plan shall be prepared to meet
the requirements of Section 9-279 of this ordinance, the maintenance agreement
shall be prepared to meet the requirements of Section 9-283 of this ordinance,
and fees shall be those established by the City of The Village.
   3.   Application Review Fees.
   The fee for review of any land development application shall be based on the
amount of land to be disturbed at the site, and the fee structure shall be
established by the City of The Village. All of the monetary contributions shall
be credited to a local budgetary category to support local plan review,
inspection, and program administration, and shall be made prior to the issuance
of any building permit for the development.
   4.   Application Procedure
   a)   Applications for land disturbance activity permits must be filed with
the City of The Village on any regular business day.
   b)   A copy of this permit application shall be forwarded to the City of The
Village for review.
   c)   Permit applications shall include the following: two copies of the
storm water management concept plan, two copies of the maintenance agreement,
and any required review fees.
   d)   Within ten (10) business days of the receipt of a complete permit
application, including all documents as required by this ordinance, the City of
The Village shall inform the applicant whether the application, plan and
maintenance agreement are approved or disapproved.
   e)   If the permit application, storm water management plan or maintenance
agreement are disapproved, the applicant may revise the storm water management
plan or agreement. If additional information is submitted, the City of The
Village shall have ten (10) business days from the date the additional
information is received to inform the applicant that the plan and maintenance
agreement are either approved or disapproved.
   f)   If the permit application, final storm water management plan and
maintenance agreement are approved by the City of The Village, all appropriate
land disturbance activity permits shall be issued.
   5.   Permit Duration
   Permits issued under this section shall be valid from the date of issuance
through the date the City of The Village notifies the permit holder that all
storm water management practices have passed the final inspection required
under permit condition.
Sec. 9-278.   Waivers to Storm water Management Requirements.
   1.   Waivers for Providing Storm water Management.
   Every applicant shall provide for storm water management as required by this
ordinance unless a written request is filed to waive this requirement. Requests
to waive the storm water management plan requirements shall be submitted to the
City of The Village for approval.
   The minimum requirements for storm water management may be waived in whole
or in part upon written request of the applicant, provided that at least one of
the following conditions applies:
   a)   It can be demonstrated that the proposed development is not likely to
impair attainment of the objectives of this ordinance.
   b)   Alternative minimum requirements for on-site management of storm water
discharges have been established in a storm water management plan that has been
approved by the City of The Village and the implementation of the plan is
required by local ordinance.
   c)   Provisions are made to manage storm water by an off-site facility. The
off-site facility is required to be in place, to be designed and adequately
sized to provide a level of storm water control that is equal to or greater
than that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there is a legally
obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the
storm water practice.
   d)   The City of The Village finds that meeting the minimum on-site
management requirements is not feasible due to the natural or existing physical
characteristics of a site.
   e)   Non-structural practices will be used on the sites that reduce: i) the
generation of storm water from the site, ii) the size and cost of storm water
storage and iii) the pollutants generated at the site. These non-structural
practices are explained in detail in the current design manual and the amount
of credit available for using such practices shall be determined by the City of
The Village.
   In instances where one of the conditions above applies, the City of The
Village may grant a waiver from strict compliance with these storm water
management provisions, as long as acceptable mitigation measures are provided.
However, to be eligible for a variance, the applicant must demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the City of The Village that the variance will not result in
the following impacts to downstream waterways:
   a)   Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other
structures;
   b)   Degradation of biological functions or habitat;
   c)   Accelerated stream bank or streambed erosion or siltation;
   d)   Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life, property.
   Furthermore, where compliance with minimum requirements for storm water
management is waived, the applicant will satisfy the minimum requirements by
meeting one of the mitigation measures selected by the jurisdictional storm
water authority. Mitigation measures may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   a)   The purchase and donation of privately owned lands, or the grant of an
easement to be dedicated for preservation and/or reforestation. These lands
should be located adjacent to the stream corridor in order to provide permanent
buffer areas to protect water quality and aquatic habitat;
   b)   The creation of a storm water management facility or other drainage
improvements on previously developed properties, public or private, that
currently lack storm water management facilities designed and constructed in
accordance with the purposes and standards of this ordinance,
   c)   Monetary contributions (Fee-in-Lieu) to fund storm water management
activities such as research and studies (e.g., regional wetland delineation
studies, stream monitoring studies for water quality and macro-invertebrates,
stream flow monitoring, threatened and endangered species studies, hydrologic
studies, and monitoring of storm water management practices.
   2.   Fee in Lieu of Storm water Management Practices.
   Where the City of The Village waives all or part of the minimum storm water
management requirements, or where the waiver is based on the provision of
adequate storm water facilities provided downstream of the proposed
development, the applicant shall be required to pay a fee in an amount as
determined by the City of The Village.
   When an applicant obtains a waiver of the required storm water management,
the monetary contribution required shall be in accordance with a fee schedule
(unless the developer and the storm water authority agree on a greater
alternate contribution) established by the City of The Village, and based on
the cubic feet of storage required for storm water management of the
development in question. All of the monetary contributions shall be credited to
an appropriate capital improvements program project and shall be made by the
developer prior to the issuance of any building permit for the development.
   3.   Dedication of land
   In lieu of a monetary contribution, an applicant may obtain a waiver of the
required storm water management by entering into an agreement with the City of
The Village for the granting of an easement or the dedication of land by the
applicant, to be used for the construction of an off-site storm water
management facility. The agreement shall be entered into by the applicant and
the City of The Village prior to the recording of plats or, if no recording of
plat is required, prior to the issuance of the building permit.
Sec. 9-279.   General Performance Criteria for Storm water Management.
   Unless judged by the City of The Village to be exempt or granted a waiver,
the following performance criteria shall be addressed for storm water
management at all sites:
   a)   All site designs shall establish storm water management practices to
control the peak flow rates of storm water discharge associated with specified
design storms and reduce the generation of storm water. These practices should
seek to utilize pervious areas for storm water treatment and to infiltrate
storm water runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and
landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment for both
water quality and quantity.
   b)   All storm water runoff generated from new development shall not
discharge untreated storm water directly into a jurisdictional wetland or local
water body without adequate treatment. Where such discharges are proposed, the
impact of the proposal on wetland functional values shall be assessed using a
method acceptable to the City of The Village. In no case shall the impact on
functional values be any less than allowed by the Army Corps of Engineers (ACE)
or the (Appropriate State Agency) responsible for natural resources.
   c)   Annual groundwater recharge rates shall be maintained, by promoting
infiltration through the use of structural and non-structural methods. At a
minimum, annual recharge from the post development site shall mimic the annual
recharge from pre-development site conditions.
   d)   For new development, structural storm water treatment practices shall
be designed to remove 50% of the average annual post development total
suspended solids load (TSS). It is presumed that a STP complies with this
performance standard if it is:
   1)   Sized to capture the prescribed water quality volume (WQv).
   2)   Designed according to the specific performance criteria outlined in the
city's storm water design manual,
   3)   Constructed properly, and
   4)   Maintained regularly.
   e)   To protect stream channels from degradation, specific channel
protection criteria shall be provided as prescribed in the current storm water
manual.
   f)   Storm water discharges to critical areas with sensitive resources
(i.e., cold-water fisheries, shellfish beds, swimming beaches, recharge areas,
water supply reservoirs) may be subject to additional performance criteria or
may need to utilize or restrict certain storm water management practices.
   g)   Certain industrial sites are required to prepare and implement a storm
water pollution prevention plan and shall file a notice of intent (NOI) under
the provisions of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
general permit. The storm water pollution prevention plan requirement applies
to both existing and new industrial sites.
   h)   Storm water discharges from land uses or activities with higher
potential pollutant loadings, known as "hotspots," may require the use of
specific structural STPs and pollution prevention practices.
   i)   Prior to design, applicants are required to consult with the City of
The Village to determine if they are subject to additional storm water design
requirements.
   j)   The calculations for determining peak flows as found in the Storm water
Design Manual shall be used for sizing all storm water management practices.
Sec. 9-280.   Basic Storm Water Management Design Criteria.
   1.   Minimum Control Requirements.
   All storm water management practices will be designed so that the specific
storm frequency storage volumes (e.g., recharge, water quality, channel
protection, 10-year, 100 year) as identified in the current storm water design
manual are met, unless the City of The Village grants the applicant a waiver or
the applicant is exempt from such requirements.
   In addition, if hydrologic or topographic conditions warrant greater control
than that provided by the minimum control requirements, the City of The Village
reserves the right to impose any and all additional requirements deemed
necessary to control the volume, timing, and rate of runoff.
   2.   Site Design Feasibility.
   Storm water management practices for a site shall be chosen based on the
physical conditions of the site. Among the factors that should be considered:
   a)   Topography
   b)   Maximum Drainage Area
   c)   Depth to Water Table
   d)   Soils
   e)   Slopes
   f)   Terrain
   g)   Head
   h)   Location in relation to environmentally sensitive features or ultra-
urban areas
Applicants shall consult the Storm water Design Manual for guidance on the
factors that determine site design feasibility when selecting a storm water
management practice.
   3.   Conveyance Issues.
   All storm water management practices shall be designed to convey storm water
to allow for the maximum removal of pollutants and reduction in flow
velocities. This shall include, but not be limited to:
   a)   Maximizing of flow paths from inflow points to outflow points
   b)   Protection of inlet and outfall structures
   c)   Elimination of erosive flow velocities
   d)   Providing of under drain systems, where applicable
The Storm water Design Manual shall provide detailed guidance on the
requirements for conveyance for each of the approved storm water management
practices.
   4.   Pretreatment Requirements.
   Every storm water treatment practice shall have an acceptable form of water
quality pretreatment, in accordance with the pretreatment requirements found in
the current storm water design manual. Certain storm water treatment practices,
as specified in the Storm water Design Manual, are prohibited even with
pretreatment in the following circumstances:
   a)   Storm water is generated from highly contaminated source areas known as
"hotspots"
   b)   Storm water is carried in a conveyance system that also carries
contaminated, non-storm water discharges
   c)   Storm water is being managed in a designated groundwater recharge area.
   d)   Certain geologic conditions exist (e.g., karsts) that prohibit the
proper pretreatment of storm water.
   5.   Treatment/Geometry Conditions.
   All storm water management practices shall be designed to capture and treat
storm water runoff according to the specifications outlined in the Storm Water
Design Manual. These specifications will designate the water quantity and
quality treatment criteria that apply to an approved storm water management
practice.
   6.   Landscaping Plans Required.
   All storm water management practices must have a landscaping plan detailing
both the vegetation to be in the practice and how and who will manage and
maintain this vegetation. This plan must be prepared by a registered landscape
architect or soil conservation district.
   7.   Maintenance Agreements.
   All storm water treatment practices shall have an enforceable operation and
maintenance agreement to ensure the system functions as designed. This
agreement will include any and all maintenance easements required to access and
inspect the storm water treatment practices, and to perform routine maintenance
as necessary to ensure proper functioning of the storm water treatment
practice. In addition, a legally binding covenant specifying the parties
responsible for the proper maintenance of all storm water treatment practices
shall be secured prior to issuance of any permits for land disturbance
activities.
   8.   Non-Structural Storm Water Practices.
   The use of non-structural storm water treatment practices is encouraged in
order to minimize the reliance on structural practices. Credit in the form of
reductions in the amount of storm water that must be managed can be earned
through the use of non-structural practices that reduce the generation of storm
water from the site. These non-structural practices are explained in detail in
the current design manual and applicants wishing to obtain credit for use of
non-structural practices must ensure that these practices are documented and
remain unaltered by subsequent property owners.
Sec. 9-281.   Requirements for Storm Water Management Plan Approval.
   1.   Storm water Management Plan Required for All Developments.
   No application for development will be approved unless it includes a storm
water management plan detailing in concept how runoff and associated water
quality impacts resulting from the development will be controlled or managed.
This plan must be prepared by an individual approved by the City of The Village
and must indicate whether storm water will be managed on-site or off-site and,
if on-site, the general location and type of practices.
   The storm water management plan(s) shall be referred for comment to all
other interested agencies, and any comments must be addressed in a final storm
water management plan. This final plan must be signed by a licensed
professional engineer (PE), who will verify that the design of all storm water
management practices meets the submittal requirements outlined in the Submittal
Checklist found in the storm water design manual. No building, grading, or
sediment control permit shall be issued until a satisfactory final storm water
management plan, or a waiver thereof, shall have undergone a review and been
approved by the City of The Village after determining that the plan or waiver
is consistent with the requirements of this ordinance.
   2.   Storm water Management Concept Plan Requirements
   A storm water management concept plan shall be required with all permit
applications and will include sufficient information (e.g., maps, hydrologic
calculations, etc) to evaluate the environmental characteristics of the project
site, the potential impacts of all proposed development of the site, both
present and future, on the water resources, and the effectiveness and
acceptability of the measures proposed for managing storm water generated at
the project site. The intent of this conceptual planning process is to
determine the type of storm water management measures necessary for the
proposed project and ensure adequate planning for management of storm water
runoff from future development. To accomplish this goal the following
information shall be included in the concept plan:
   a)   A map (or maps) indicating the location of existing and proposed
buildings, roads, parking areas, utilities, structural storm water management
and sediment control facilities. The map(s) will also clearly show proposed
land use with tabulation of the percentage of surface area to be adapted to
various uses; drainage patterns; locations of utilities, roads, and easements;
the limits of clearing and grading; A Written description of the site plan and
justification of proposed changes in natural conditions may also be required.
   b)   Sufficient engineering analysis to show that the proposed storm water
management measures are capable of controlling runoff from the site in
compliance with this ordinance and the specifications of the Storm water Design
Manual.
   c)   A written or graphic inventory of the natural resources at the site and
surrounding area as it exists prior to the commencement of the project and a
description of the watershed and its relation to the project site. This
description should include a discussion of soil conditions, forest cover,
topography, wetlands, and other native vegetative areas on the site. Particular
attention should be paid to environmentally sensitive features that provide
particular opportunities or constraints for development.
   d)   A written description of the required maintenance burden for any
proposed storm water management facility.
   e)   The City of The Village may also require a concept plan to consider the
maximum development potential of a site under existing zoning, regardless of
whether the applicant presently intends to develop the site to its maximum
potential.
   f)   For development or redevelopment occurring on a previously developed
site, an applicant shall be required to include within the storm water concept
plan measures for controlling storm water runoff discharges from the site with
the goal and intent of restoring the land's surface runoff to its pre-developed
or virgin state in accordance with the standards of this Ordinance and to the
maximum extent practicable. (Ord. No. 755, §1, 08-17-2020)
   3.   Final Storm water Management Plan Requirements.
   After review of the storm water management concept plan, and modifications
to that plan as deemed necessary by the City of The Village, a final storm
water management plan must be submitted for approval. The final storm water
management plan, in addition to the information from the concept plan, shall
include all of the information required in the Final Storm water Management
Plan checklist found in the Storm water Design Manual. This includes:
   a)   Contact Information: The name, address, and telephone number of all
persons having a legal interest in the property and the tax reference number
and parcel number of the property or properties affected.
   b)   Topographic Base Map: A 1" = 200' topographic base map of the site
which extends a minimum of 50 feet beyond the limits of the proposed
development and indicates existing surface water drainage including streams,
ponds, culverts, ditches, and wetlands; current land use including all existing
structures; locations of utilities, roads, and easements; and significant
natural and manmade features not otherwise shown.
   c)   Calculations: Hydrologic and hydraulic design calculations for the pre-
development and post-development conditions for the design storms specified in
this ordinance. Such calculations shall include (i) description of the design
storm frequency, intensity and duration, (ii) time of concentration, (iii) Soil
Curve Numbers or runoff coefficients, (iv) peak runoff rates and total runoff
volumes for each watershed area, (v) infiltration rates, where applicable, (vi)
culvert capacities, (vii) flow velocities, (viii) data on the increase in rate
and volume of runoff for the design storms referenced in the Storm water Design
Manual, and (ix) documentation of sources for all computation methods and field
test results.
   d)   Soils Information: If a storm water management control measure depends
on the hydrologic properties of soils (e.g., infiltration basins), then a soils
report shall be submitted. The soils report shall be based on on-site boring
logs or soil pit profiles. The number and location of required soil borings or
soil pits shall be determined based on what is needed to determine the
suitability and distribution of soil types present at the location of the
control measure.
   e)   Maintenance and Repair Plan: The design and planning of all storm water
management facilities shall include detailed maintenance and repair procedures
to ensure their continued function. These plans will identify the parts or
components of a storm water management facility that need to be maintained and
the equipment and skills or training necessary. Provisions for the periodic
review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the maintenance program and the
need for revisions or additional maintenance procedures shall be included in
the plan.
   f)   Landscaping plan: The applicant must present a detailed plan for
management of vegetation at the site after construction is finished, including
who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation at the site and what
practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is
preserved. This plan must be prepared by a registered landscape architect.
   g)   Maintenance Easements: The applicant must ensure access to all storm
water treatment practices at the site for the purpose of inspection and repair
by securing all the maintenance easements needed on a permanent basis. These
easements will be recorded with the plan and will remain in effect even with
transfer of title to the property.
   h)   Maintenance Agreement: The applicant must execute an easement and an
inspection and maintenance agreement binding on all subsequent owners of land
served by an on-site storm water management measure in accordance with the
specifications of this ordinance.
   i)   Erosion and Sediment Control Plans for Construction of Storm water
Management Measures: The applicant must prepare an erosion and sediment control
plan for all construction activities related to implementing any on-site storm
water management practices.
   j)   Other Environmental Permits: The applicant shall assure that all other
applicable environmental permits have been acquired for the site prior to
approval of the final storm water design plan.
   4.   Performance Bond/Security.
   The City of The Village may, at its discretion, require the submittal of a
performance security or bond prior to issuance of a permit in order to ensure
that the storm water practices are installed by the permit holder as required
by the approved storm water management plan. The amount of the installation
performance security shall be the total estimated construction cost of the
storm water management practices approved under the permit, plus 25%. The
performance security shall contain forfeiture provisions for failure to
complete work specified in the storm water management plan.
   The installation performance security shall be released in full only upon
submission of "as built plans" and written certification by a registered
professional engineer that the storm water practice has been installed in
accordance with the approved plan and other applicable provisions of this
ordinance. The City of The Village will make a final inspection of the storm
water practice to ensure that it is in compliance with the approved plan and
the provisions of this ordinance. Provisions for a partial pro-rata release of
the performance security based on the completion of various development stages
can be done at the discretion of the City of The Village.
Sec. 9-282.   Construction Inspection.
   1.   Notice of Construction Commencement
   The applicant must notify the City of The Village in advance before the
commencement of construction. Regular inspections of the storm water management
system construction shall be conducted by the staff of the City of The Village
or certified by a professional engineer or their designee who has been approved
by the jurisdictional storm water authority. All inspections shall be
documented, and written reports prepared that contain the following
information:
   a)   The date and location of the inspection;
   b)   Whether construction is in compliance with the approved storm water
management plan.
   c)   Variations from the approved construction specifications.
   d)   Any violations that exist
If any violations are found, the property owner shall be notified in writing of
the nature of the violation and the required corrective actions. No added work
shall proceed until any violations are corrected and all work previously
completed has received approval by the City of The Village.
   2.   As Built Plans.
   All applicants are required to submit actual "as built" plans for any storm
water management practices located on-site after final construction is
completed. The plan must show the final design specifications for all storm
water management facilities and must be certified by a professional engineer. A
final inspection by the City of The Village is required before the release of
any performance securities can occur.
   3.   Landscaping and Stabilization Requirements
   Any area of land from which the natural vegetative cover has been either
partially or wholly cleared or removed by development activities shall be re-
vegetated within ten (10) days from the substantial completion of such clearing
and construction. The following criteria shall apply to re-vegetation efforts:
   a)   Reseeding must be done with an annual or perennial cover crop
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until such time as the cover crop is established
over ninety percent (90%) of the seeded area.
   b)   Replanting with native woody and herbaceous vegetation must be
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until the plantings are established and are capable
of controlling erosion.
   c)   Any area of re-vegetation must exhibit survival of a minimum of
seventy-five percent (75%) of the cover crop throughout the year immediately
following re-vegetation. Re-vegetation must be repeated in successive years
until the minimum seventy-five percent (75%) survival for one (1) year is
achieved.
   In addition to the above requirements, a landscaping plan must be submitted
with the final design describing the vegetative stabilization and management
techniques to be used at a site after construction is completed. This plan will
explain not only how the site will be stabilized after construction, but also
who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation at the site and what
practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is
preserved. This plan must be prepared by a registered landscape architect or by
the soil conservation district and must be approved prior to receiving a
permit.
Sec. 9-283.   Maintenance and Repair of Storm water Facilities.
   1.   Maintenance Easement. Prior to the issuance of any permit that has a
storm water management facility as one of the requirements of the permit, the
applicant or owner of the site must execute a maintenance easement agreement
that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of land served by the storm
water management facility. The agreement shall provide for access to the
facility at reasonable times for periodic inspection by the City of The
Village, or their contractor or agent, and for regular or special assessments
of property owners to ensure that the facility is maintained in proper working
condition to meet design standards and any other provisions established by this
ordinance. The easement agreement shall be recorded by the City of The Village
in the land records.
   2.   Maintenance Covenants. Maintenance of all storm water management
facilities shall be ensured through the creation of a formal maintenance
covenant that must be approved by the City of The Village and recorded into the
land record prior to final plan approval. As part of the covenant, a schedule
shall be developed for when and how often maintenance will occur to ensure
proper function of the storm water management facility. The covenant shall also
include plans for periodic inspections to ensure proper performance of the
facility between scheduled cleanouts.
The City of The Village, in lieu of a maintenance covenant, may accept
dedication of any existing or future storm water management facility for
maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this chapter
and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or
otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance.
   3.   Requirements for Maintenance Covenants. All storm water management
facilities must undergo, at the minimum, an annual inspection to document
maintenance and repair needs and ensure compliance with the requirements of
this ordinance and accomplishment of its purposes. These needs may include;
removal of silt, litter and other debris from all catch basins, inlets and
drainage pipes, grass cutting and vegetation removal, and necessary replacement
of landscape vegetation. Any maintenance needs found must be addressed in a
timely manner, as determined by the City of The Village, and the inspection and
maintenance requirement may be increased as deemed necessary to ensure proper
functioning of the storm water management facility.
   4.   Inspection of Storm water Facilities. Inspection programs may be
established on any reasonable basis, including but not limited to: routine
inspections; random inspections; inspections based upon complaints or other
notice of possible violations; inspection of drainage basins or areas
identified as higher than typical sources of sediment or other contaminants or
pollutants; inspections of businesses or industries of a type associated with
higher than usual discharges of contaminants or pollutants or with discharges
of a type which are more likely than the typical discharge to cause violations
of state or federal water or sediment quality standards or the NPDES storm
water permit; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under
environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include but are not limited to
reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges, surface water,
groundwater, and material or water in drainage control facilities; and
evaluating the condition of drainage control facilities and other storm water
treatment practices.
   5.   Right-of-Entry for Inspection. When any new drainage control facility
is installed on private property, or when any new connection is made between
private property and a public drainage control system, sanitary sewer or
combined sewer, the property owner shall grant to the City of The Village the
right to enter the property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for
the purpose of inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when it
has a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this ordinance is
occurring or has occurred, and to enter when necessary for abatement of a
public nuisance or correction of a violation of this ordinance.
   6.   Records of Installation and Maintenance Activities. Parties responsible
for the operation and maintenance of a storm water management facility shall
make records of the installation and of all maintenance and repairs and shall
retain the records for at least five (5) years. These records shall be made
available to the City of The Village during inspection of the facility and at
other reasonable times upon request.
   7.   Failure to Maintain Practices. If a responsible party fails or refuses
to meet the requirements of the maintenance covenant, the City of The Village,
after reasonable notice, may correct a violation of the design standards or
maintenance needs by performing all necessary work to place the facility in
proper working condition. In the event that the storm water management facility
becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the City of The Village
shall notify the party responsible for maintenance of the storm water
management facility in writing. Upon receipt of that notice, the responsible
person shall have thirty (30) days to affect maintenance and repair of the
facility in an approved manner. After proper notice, the City of The Village
may assess the owner(s) of the facility for the cost of repair work and any
penalties; and the cost of the work shall be a lien on the property, or
prorated against the beneficial users of the property, and may be placed on the
tax bill and collected as ordinary taxes by the county.
Sec. 9-284.   Enforcement and Penalties.
   1.   Violations. Any development activity that is commenced or is conducted
contrary to this Division may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated
in a manner provided by law.
   2.   Notice of Violation. When the City of The Village determines that an
activity is not being carried out in accordance with the requirements of this
Ordinance, it shall issue a written notice of violation to the owner of the
property. The notice of violation shall contain:
   a)   the name and address of the owner or applicant;
   b)   the address when available or a description of the building, structure,
or land upon which the violation is occurring;
   c)   a statement specifying the nature of the violation;
   d)   a description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the
development activity into compliance with this Ordinance and a time schedule
for the completion of such remedial action;
   e)   a statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed
against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
   f)   a statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the
municipality by filing a written notice of appeal within fifteen (15) days of
service of notice of violation.
   3.   Stop Work Orders. Persons receiving a notice of violation will be
required to halt all construction activities. This "stop work order" will be in
effect until the City of The Village confirms that the development activity is
in compliance and the violation has been satisfactorily addressed. Failure to
address a notice of violation in a timely manner can result in civil, criminal,
or monetary penalties in accordance with the enforcement measures authorized in
this ordinance.
   4.   Civil and Criminal Penalties. In addition to or as an alternative to
any penalty provided herein or by law, any person who violates the provisions
of this Ordinance shall be punished by a fine of not less than Seven Hundred
and Fifty Dollars ($750.00) or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed (60)
days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Such person shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each day during which the violation occurs or continues.
   5.   Restoration of lands. Any violator may be required to restore land to
its undisturbed condition. In the event that restoration is not undertaken
within a reasonable time after notice, the City of The Village may take
necessary corrective action, the cost of which shall become a lien upon the
property until paid.
   6.   Holds on Occupancy Permits. Occupancy permits will not be granted until
corrections to all storm water practices have been made and accepted by the
City of The Village.
Sec. 9-285.   Repealer.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
Sec. 9-286.    Emergency.
   Whereas, it being necessary for the preservation of the public health,
peace, and safety of the City of The Village, Oklahoma, an emergency is
declared to exist and by reason thereof this ordinance shall take full force
from and after its adoption.
ARTICLE VII
SANITARY SEWER DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
Sec. 9-300. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BOD (denoting biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty (20) degrees Celsius, expressed
in parts per million by weight.
   Director means the director of public works or his authorized
representative.
   Garbage means solid food wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   Industrial waste means all water-borne solids, liquids or gaseous wastes
resulting from any industrial manufacturing, restaurant, food processing
operation or process, car wash, print shop, drycleaner, or laundry, or from the
development of any natural resource, or any mixture of these with water or
domestic sewage as distinct from normal domestic sewage.
(Ord. No. 626, §1, 04-03-2007)
   Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or
other body of surface or ground water.
   pH means the logarithm to the base ten (10) of the reciprocal of the weight
of hydrogen ions in grams per liter or solution.
   Properly shredded garbage means garbage that has been shredded to such a
degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
   Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights and is controlled by public authority.
   Sanitary sewer means a sewer, which carries sewage, and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   Sanitary sewer system includes all sanitary sewer trunk lines and all sewer
lines connected to the city's sewer lines or treatment plants whether owned by
the city or not.
   Sewage means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   Slug means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste, which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flows exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty-four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   Suspended solids mean solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
(Code 1976, §13-2-1)
Sec. 9-301. Enforcement.
   The director and the director of the health department, or their authorized
representative, are vested with full authority to enforce the provisions of
this division.
(Code 1976, §13-2-8)
Sec. 9-302. Inspections.
   The director and other duly authorized employees of the city shall be
permitted to enter all properties at reasonable times for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this division.
(Code 1976, §13-2-7)
Sec. 9-303. Violations.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
division or any legal order or regulation made pursuant hereto, shall be guilty
of a Class A offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to Seven Hundred and
Fifty Dollars ($750.00) and up to sixty (60) days imprisonment or both said
fine and imprisonment.
(Code 1976, §13-3-1)
Sec. 9-304. Discharges into storm sewers or natural outlets.
No person shall discharge to any storm sewer or natural outlet within the city
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage, or other
polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with latest state and federal water quality criteria for the stream involved.
(Code 1976, §13-2-2)
Sec. 9-305. Industrial or harmful wastes.
   (a)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquids, solids, or gas;
   (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, or injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not
limited to cyanides in excess of two (2) mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged
to the public sewer;
   (3)   Any waters or wastes having pH lower than 6.0 or greater than 10.5 or
having any other chemical or corrosive property which is hazardous or capable
of causing damage to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (4)   Solids of viscous substances in quantities or of sizes (will not pass
through a quarter-inch screen) capable of causing obstruction to flow in sewers
or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works, storm
sewers, or natural outlets such as, but not limited to ashes, cinders, sand,
mud, straw, shaving, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, rubber,
un-ground garbage, animal grease or oil, whole blood, paunch manure, hair, meat
fleshings, entrails, bones, hooves, toe nails, bristles, horns, chicken feet or
heads, yeast, spent grain, hops, whey, whole or separated milk, paper dishes,
cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground garbage grinders.
   (5)   Any discharge of polar or non-saturated fats, oils, or greases of
animal or vegetable origin having a concentration of 200 mg/l or greater."
(Ord. No. 626, §2, 04-03-2007)
   (b)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the director that such substances or wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
director will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The prohibited substances are:
   (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred and
fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit or sixty-five (65) degrees Celsius;
   (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) milligrams per liter or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty-two (32) degrees Fahrenheit and one-hundred fifty (150) degrees
Fahrenheit or zero (0) and sixty-five (65) degrees Celsius;
   (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor greater than three-
fourths horsepower is prohibited,
   (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wasters, or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
   (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the director for such materials;
   (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the director as necessary, after treatment of composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies for
such discharge to the receiving waters;
   (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the director in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations,
   (8)   Materials, which exert or cause:
   a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as but not
limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
   b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions);
   c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements (such as,
but not limited to, whey, whole or separated milk, yeast, whole blood, etc.) in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
   d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration wastes constituting slugs.
   (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances, which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment or reduction processes employed,
or are amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (c)   Special handling required to discharge certain wastes. If any waters
or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers,
which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated
in this section and which in the judgment of the director may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the director may:
   (1)   Reject the wastes,
   (2)   Require pre-treatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
public sewers,
   (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
(Code 1976, §§13-2-3--13-2-5)
Sec. 9-306 Permit for industrial connections.
   Any person applying to the director for a permit to make any connection to
the city's sanitary sewer system for industrial wastes shall furnish the
following information:
   (1)   A plot of the property showing accurately all existing sewers and
storm drains.
   (2)   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed
under the permit.
   (3)   A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes
produced or expected to be produced at the property, including a description of
the character of each waste, the daily volume and maximum rates of discharge,
and representative analyses.
   (4)   The name and address of the person who will perform the work covered
by the permit.
(Code 1976, §13-2-6)
Sec. 9-307. Pretreatment.
   (a)   Whenever deemed necessary, the director may require industrial users
to restrict their discharge peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and other conditions as may be necessary to protect the public
sewerage system and determine the industrial user's compliance with the
requirements of this article.
   (b)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided by the user when,
in the opinion of the director, the interceptors are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interceptor units shall be of type and capacity approved by the director and
shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Interceptors shall be cleaned and repaired regularly, and as otherwise needed,
by the user at the user's own expense.
(Ord. No. 626, §3, 04-03-2007)
Sec. 9-308. Inspections, Sampling & Testing.
   (a)   The director shall maintain a current list of all restaurants, car
washes, print shops, drycleaners, and laundries in the City and shall make
quarterly inspections of the pretreatment system of each such establishment and
report all findings and enforcement actions to the city manager.
   (b)   The director shall sample and test the discharge from each restaurant
and car wash at least one (1) time per calendar year.
   (c)   The director shall require all new restaurants, car washes, print
shops, drycleaners, and laundries to provide a collection point (clean out)
where samples may be taken for analysis and compliance.
   (d)   Restaurants, car washes, print shops, drycleaners, and laundries which
are determined to be in violation of the discharge standards provided in this
Article shall take corrective action as directed and approved by the director
within thirty (30) days of notification.
(Ord. No. 626, §3, 04-03-2007)
CHAPTER 10
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Art. I.
   
Div. 1.   In General, §§ 10-1--10-20
   Div. 2.   Emergency Access Systems.
Art. II.    Fires, §§ 10-21--10-26
ARTICLE I.
DIVISION 1.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 10-1. International Fire Code - Adopted.
1)   That a certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of The Village, being marked and designated as the
International Fire Code, 2018 Edition, including Appendices B, C, D, E, F, G, I
and K, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted
as the Fire Code of the City of The Village in the State of Oklahoma regulating
and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion
hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances,
materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the
occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Fire Code on
file in the office of the City of The Village are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this ordinance, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Subsection
2 of this Section.
2)   The International Fire Code, 2018 Edition is hereby revised as follows:
The official amendments and rules to the International Fire Code®, 2018 Edition
(IFC®, 2018) 748:20-3-1 through 748:20-3-15 as adopted by the Oklahoma Uniform
Building Code Commission are hereby adopted by reference.
Section 101.1. Insert: City of The Village, Oklahoma.
ection 110.4. Insert: [Any person found guilty of violating any provision of
this Article shall be guilty of a Class A offense punishable by a fine of not
more than $750.00 dollars and/or up to sixty (60) days imprisonment. Each day
that a violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.]
3)   The geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the 2018
International Fire Code are hereby established as follows:
Section 5704.2.9.6.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and
Class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited): The
corporate limits of the City of The Village.
Section 5706.2.4.4 (geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and Class
II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited): The corporate limits of the
City of The Village.
Section 5806.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of flammable cryogenic
fluids in stationary containers is prohibited): The corporate limits of the
City of The Village.
Section 6104.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of liquefied petroleum
gas is restricted for the protection of heavily populated or congested areas):
The corporate limits of the City of The Village.
(Ord. No. 303, 9-21-82; Ord. No. 448. 7-17-90; Ord. No. 490, § 5, 9-7-93, Ord.
No. 544, §1, 12-1-98; 2002 Code; 2004 City Code; 2010 City Code; Ord. 662, §1,
09-06-2011; 2018 City Code)
Sec. 10-2. Unloading flammable or combustible liquids.
   No tank vehicle or any other vehicle conveying flammable and combustible
liquids shall unload such liquids between sunset and sunrise unless the owner
of the property or the property owner's representative on which the same is
unloaded is present.
(Ord. No. 227-B, § 8, 2-15-77; Ord. No. 448, 7-17-90; Ord. No. 492, § 1, 9-7-
93)
Sec. 10-3. Fire lanes.
(a)   Fire lanes required. Fire lanes shall be required in accordance with the
provisions of this ordinance on private property used for assembly, commercial,
educational, institutional, multiple-family dwellings, and on private property
containing two or more dwellings to which access is provided by private roads
or driveways. No proposed subdivision shall be approved, and no proposed
Planned Unit Development shall be approved without compliance with the terms of
this ordinance, if any part of the area being subdivided contains any of the
uses or conditions described in this section.
(b)   Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases
will have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
City means The City of The Village
Fire Chief means the Fire Chief of the City of The Village.
Fire lane means a part of a public parking lot or private driveway or private
road, which is designed to provide access to fire trucks to any building or
location.
(c)   Subdivision plans to show compliance. Each application for approval of a
plat of subdivision shall contain sufficient information to show compliance
with this ordinance unless there is no location where a fire lane is required
under the terms of this ordinance.
(d)   Duties of Fire Chief. All plans submitted under this ordinance shall be
referred to the fire chief, or his representative, for examination. The fire
chief shall report to the planning commission, indicating whether or not the
proposal complies with this ordinance. If the fire chief finds that the fire
lanes in the proposal do not comply with the terms of this ordinance, the fire
chief will specify the changes necessary to make the proposal comply with this
ordinance. Any applicant may request and receive a conference with the fire
chief concerning any matter under this ordinance. The fire chief shall inspect
the construction of any fire lanes required by this ordinance, and no final
approval shall be given to any construction of any driveway, road, or other
facility required by this ordinance until the fire chief has inspected and
approved the fire lanes.
(e)   Location of lanes. Fire lanes shall be located where necessary to provide
fire protection to all buildings and premises, including not only buildings and
premises on the parcel of land where the fire lane is located, but also any
buildings or premises on adjacent land required to be served by the fire lanes.
(f)   Specifications for fire lanes. Fire lanes shall not be less than eighteen
(18) feet wide at any point, and curves and corners shall be broad enough to
permit passage by any fire equipment owned by the city and any fire equipment
presently in use anywhere in the United States. The surface of the fire lanes
shall be an all-weather surface and shall be of sufficient strength to support
all fire fighting apparatus presently in use by the city fire department.
(g)   Parking. No parking shall be permitted at any time on any fire lane, and
no parking shall be permitted at any location, which would prevent access to
any fire lane, by any fire equipment. Lanes shall be marked by red-painted
curbing or pavement markings with white lettering at least three (3) inches
tall containing the words "FIRE LANE NO PARKING" to be repeated at least every
fifteen (15) feet to warn people against blocking the lane. No person shall
park a vehicle or let a vehicle stand on any fire lane at any time, and no
owner, manager or tenant of any premises shall permit any customer or visitor
to park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to stand on any part of any fire lane
at any time.
(h)   Signs. The owner of the area where a fire lane is required shall post
appropriate signage indicating that the fire lane is a fire lane and indicating
that no parking is permitted on the fire lane. Appropriate signage shall be
building- or pole-mounted metal signs measuring at least eight (8) inches by
ten (10) inches of a white reflective background with red reflective lettering
containing the words "FIRE LANE NO PARKING". Signs shall be mounted a distance
of five (5) feet from grade or bottom of the post to the bottom of the sign.
(i)   Snow and ice removal. The property owner shall remove all snow and ice
from a fire lane forthwith as soon as snow and ice start to accumulate.
(j)   Water. Fire lanes shall be designed and built so that water shall not
stand in the fire lane at any time.         
(Ord. No. 293, §§ 2, 3, 1-19-82; Ord. No. 448, 7-17-90; Ord. No. 544, §2, 12-1-
98)
Cross-references--Buildings and Building Regulations,
Ch. 6; offenses against public authority, §
12-16 et seq.; fireworks, §
12-124 et seq.
State law reference--Authority to prevent fire hazards, 11 O.S. §22-113.
Sec. 10-4. Fire Department Connections:
Fire Department Connections for sprinkler systems and standpipes shall be
located within 50 feet of a fire hydrant. The connection shall be equipped with
a 4-inch "Storz" fitting. Fire Department Connections must be marked with the
address the connect serves.
Sec. 10-5. Emergency Access Systems.
(A)   Section 501.1 of the International Fire Code 2018 Edition is hereby
amended to read as follows:
   1.0   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following terms will
have the following definitions.
   1.1   Security Gate. Shall mean any vehicle access way from a public street
to private property, which has an access gate that limits or controls vehicle
access onto the property; or an access gate that limits or controls access to a
primary structure or structures on private property from another area of
private property.
   1.2   System. A gate system includes each drive gate, pedestrian gate,
operating mechanism, receiver, electrical system, chain, belt, pulley, all
hardware appliances and all other type equipment or items necessary for each
gate to function as intended and herein described
   1.3   Primary Drive Gate Type. The primary drive gate type that may be
installed across fire lanes shall be the sliding type. If the installation of a
slide gate is not possible due to the layout of the property or building
thereon, alternate types may be used with the approval of the Fire Chief.
   1.4   Main Gate. Shall mean the gate and entry gate way designed as the
primary entrance for guests, residents, deliveries, employees, patrons, etc.,
regardless of whether or not said gate is situated between private and public
properties, or between two areas of private property.
   1.5   Owner. Shall mean a person, corporation, partnership, or any other
similar entity.
   1.6   Primary Emergency Access. Shall mean the drive or access point
designed as the primary point or one of several primary points of ingress/
egress for emergency vehicles.
   1.7   Secondary Emergency Access. Shall mean the drive or access point
designed as a secondary or back-up means of ingress/egress for emergency
vehicles.
   2.0   General Requirements. All limited access drives from public streets
shall be designed to accommodate emergency service vehicles (fire, police, and
EMS). All limited access drives will be designated as either a primary or
secondary emergency access way, as determined by the fire chief. All primary
emergency access gates shall be equipped to operate with the "Knox" key switch
and a fail-safe manual back-up or automatic release in the event of a failure
of the electrical or mechanical system. The Knox key switch shall be located on
a keypad pedestal or call box as approved by the fire chief. All automated
gates must also be equipped with one flasher unit and one external lamp
assembly with a red globe and guard to be mounted separately from the
enclosure. The light shall be visible from both sides of the gate; be mounted
at the top of the fence within two (2) feet of the gate opening and flash upon
the gate being activated by the key switch and continue to flash as long as the
gate is being held by the emergency access system. All automated secondary
emergency access gates shall be equipped to operate with the Knox key switch
mounted on a key pedestal and have an electrical disconnect contained within an
approved box secured by a Knox pad lock to allow manual opening of the gate by
emergency personnel. All manual secondary access gates shall open by means of a
Knox Padlock.
   3.0   Specific Requirements. All primary access gates shall be located on
private property a minimum of twenty (20) feet from the property line being
crossed by the access drive or forty (40) feet from the nearest edge of the
roadway, whichever is greater. The minimum clear opening width shall not be
less than twenty-four (24) feet and a minimum unobstructed height of fourteen
(14) feet shall be maintained. Limited access gates shall be designed and
constructed in a workman-like manner. The fire chief shall approve gate
materials.
   4.0   Application for Knox Devices.
   (a)   Every building and structure, either residential or commercial, that
shall have limited access due to a vehicular gate, shall be required to make
application to the Fire Chief for the appropriate Knox devices. Upon issuance
of an approved application, the Fire Chief shall instruct the applicant how to
acquire the device(s). The numbers used shall be consistent throughout the City
and shall not be changed unless ordered by a written, notarized directive from
the Fire Chief.
   (b)   Every new building for non-residential occupancy as defined by the
International Fire Code shall have a Knox-Box Rapid Entry System installed. The
box shall be installed within 20 feet of the main entrance or as approved by
the Fire Chief or his designee. Upon issuance of an approved application for
said Rapid Entry System, the Fire Chief shall instruct the applicant how to
acquire the device(s). The numbers used shall be consistent throughout the City
and shall not be changed unless ordered by a written notarized directive from
the Fire Chief.
   5.0   Primary System Access - Knox Key Switch. The gate shall normally be
opened by means of the Knox key switch that is mounted on the keypad or other
approved location. Upon activation of the key switch, the affected gate shall
automatically open to a locked open and disabled condition. The system will
require manual reset to close the gates after emergency activation. In the
event of power failure, the gate shall open freely. It shall be capable of
being opened manually by one person of average stature.
   6.0   Final System Access (Back-Up) - Electrical Disconnect/Chain Access. In
the event of Knox key switch failure, the gate shall be opened by means of an
electrical power disconnect switch in a weatherproof box:
   1.   The box shall be red.
   2.   The box shall be mounted on the entry side of the gate within five (5)
feet of the gate.
   3.   The box shall be at least five (5) inches high and five (5) inches
wide.
   4.   The box shall be clearly labeled "Fire Dept." in white letters one inch
tall with one-quarter inch stroke.
   5.   A Knox padlock shall secure the box.
   6.   The box must be clearly visible and accessible.
   7.0   Electrical Equipment Protection. All electrical equipment shall be
protected from physical damage and weather by approved weather tight boxes or
housings.
   8.0   Performance Test. Gates and gate systems shall be tested upon
completion of the installation of a gate or gate system or when required by the
fire department. Failure of a gate or gate system test shall require all
affected gates shall be chained and locked in the open position until repaired
and re-tested. The fire department shall observe all required tests.
Sec. 10-6--10-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. FIRES
Sec. 10-21. Liability of city.
   The issuance of a permit under this article, the granting of a request that
fire department equipment "stand by" during any burning or bonfire, or the
granting of a request that the fire department assist in any burning under the
provisions hereof shall not constitute the assumption of any liability by the
city or its authorized agents for any damages resulting to persons or property
from such fire.
(Code 1976, § 7-6-6)
Sec. 10-22. When fire chief may prohibit.
   The chief of the fire department or his authorized agent may prohibit any or
all bonfires when atmospheric conditions or local conditions make such fires
hazardous.
(Code 1976, § 7-6-5; 2004 City Code)
Sec. 10-23. Permit for fires on public property.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or authorize any such fire to
be kindled or maintained on or in any public street, alley, road, or other
public grounds without a permit being issued by the fire chief or his
authorized agent for each such fire.
(Code 1976, § 7-6-1; 2004 City Code)
Sec. 10-24. Permit for fire on private property.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or authorize any such fire to
be kindled or maintained on any private property without first obtaining a
permit from the Fire Chief or his authorized agent. Such permits shall be
issued only if the location of proposed fire is more than fifty (50) feet from
any structure and adequate provision is made to prevent the fire from spreading
to within fifty (50) feet of any structure. A permit shall be required for each
bonfire, provided that only one permit shall be allowed per location during
each calendar year.
(Code 1976, § 7-6-2; 2004 City Code)
Cross references--Open burning, §
3-21, burning garbage prohibited, §
23-22.
Sec. 10-25. Burning garbage.
   (a)   No person shall kindle or maintain any garbage fire or authorize any
such fire to be kindled or maintained on any private property.
   (b)   In this section "garbage" includes all waste materials that attend the
preparation, cooking or storage of food, including but not limited to animal,
fowl, fish, fruit and vegetable matter, and all paper, metallic or other food
containers.
(Code 1976, § 7-6-3; 2004 City Code)
Sec. 10-26. Attendance at bonfires.
   Bonfires shall be attended by the fire department until such fire is
extinguished.
(Code 1976, § 7-6-4; 2004 City Code)
Sec. 10-27. Portable Generators.
   1.   Permit Required. It shall be unlawful for any person, tenant, landlord,
authorized representative, or person in control of any property to connect a
portable generator to any structure or supply electricity to any structure
without first obtaining a permit from the City. The permit fee shall initially
be $25 and may be changed by Resolution of the City Council.
   2.   Power Outages: Portable generators that are used to supply electrical
power for the occupants of any structure shall only be allowed when electrical
utility service has been interrupted due to weather conditions or due to other
system failures. Portable generators shall not be permitted when electrical
service has been terminated for non-payment or has been terminated for any
other reason by the owner, tenant, landlord, authorized representative, or
person in control of the property.
   3.   Direct Connection to Electrical System: Portable generators shall not
be directly connected to the electrical system of a structure (home, office, or
trailer) unless the generator has a properly installed open-transition transfer
switch.
   4.   Grounding: If the portable generator is providing electric power to a
structure by connection via a transfer switch to a structure (home, office,
shop, trailer, or similar structure) the generator shall be connected to a
grounding electrode system, such as a driven ground rod. The transfer switch
shall be approved for the use and installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's installation instructions by a qualified electrician.
   5.   Maintenance: Portable generators shall be maintained and operated in
accordance with the manufacturer's use and safety instructions.
   6.   Electrical Cords: Electrical appliances and tools shall be plugged
directly into the generator using the appliance manufacturer's supplied cords.
Extension cords shall be heavy-duty cords that contain a grounding conductor
(3-wire flexible cord and 3-pronged cord connectors). Ground-fault circuit
interrupters (GFCIs) shall be used as per the manufacturer's instructions.
   7.   Ventilation: Portable generators shall not be operated within any
enclosed area or garage and shall be installed with proper ventilation and
clearance so as to prevent asphyxiation.
(Ord. No. 686 §1, 08-20-2013)
CHAPTER 11
LICENSES, PERMITS AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Art. I.    In General, §§ 11-1--11-15
Art. II.   Amusements Generally, §§ 11-16--11-30
Art. III.      Concrete Contractors, §§ 11-31--11-50
Art. IV.   Circuses, §§ 11-51--1-75
Art. V.    Food & Beverages, §§ 11-76--11-90
Art. VI.   Reserved.
Art. VII.   Handbill Distributors, §§ 11-121--11-135
Art. VIII.   Reserved, §§ 11-136--11-150
Art. IX.   Peddlers and Solicitors, §§ 11-151--11-185
   
Div. 1.   Generally, §§ 11-151--11-165
   
Div. 2.   License, §§ 11-166--11-185
Art. X.   Pool and Billiard Halls, §§ 11-186--11-200
Art. XI.   Reserved. §§ 11-201--11-240
Art. XII.    Residential and Estate Sales, §§ 11-241--11-280
   
Div. 1.   Generally, §§ 11-241--11-260
   
Div. 2.   License, §§ 11-261--11-265
   
Div. 3.    Estate Sales, §§ 11-266--11-280
Art. XIII.   Sewer or Water Main Contractors, §§ 11-281--11-295
Art. XIV.   Sexually oriented Businesses, §§ 11-296--11-310
Art. XV.   Water Wells, §§ 11-311--11-329
Art. XVI.   Miscellaneous Business Regulations, §§ 11-330--11-359
   
Div. 1.   Christmas Tree Sales, §§ 11-330--11-350
   
Div. 2.   Display of Merchandise, §§ 11-351--11-359
Art. XVII.   Telephonic Alarm System Permits, §§ 11-360--11-363
Art. XVIII.   Reserved, §§ 11-400--11-416
Art. XIX.   Sign Contractors, §§ 11-500--11-501
Art. XX.   Pawnbrokers, §§ 11-600--11-607
Art. XXI.   Child and Day Care Centers, §§ 11-700--11-799
Art. XXII.   Coin-operated Devices, §§ 11-800--11-899.
Art. XXIII.   Home Sharing, §§ 11-900–11-908
Art. XXIV.   Special Public Event Permits, §§ 11-950–11-954
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 11-1. Posting of licenses, permits, etc.; unoccupied building notices.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person conducting a business in the city
to fail to keep all licenses required by the city including but not limited to
the sales tax permit issued by the Oklahoma Tax Commission, and occupancy
permit, posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such business at
all times.
Cross references--Occupation tax on alcoholic beverages, §
4-2; §
5-21; regulation of electricians, §
6-51 et seq.; Licensing of mechanical contractors, §
6-116 et seq.; Regulation of plumbers, §
6-146 et seq.; Cable TV
Ch. 7; Oil & gas wells,
Ch. 16; Sign permits, §
20-4; Taxation,
Ch. 22.
State law reference--General authority to license, 11 O.S. §§ 22-106, 22-107.
   (b)   The Fire Marshal and Building Inspector are hereby authorized to
place, as deemed necessary, unoccupied building notices on unoccupied
buildings, offices, or retail spaces in the city. The unoccupied building
notice shall give notification that an occupancy permit must be obtained from
the city prior to occupancy of the vacant building, office, or retail space. It
shall be unlawful for any person to remove from any premise or premises
situated in said city any unoccupied building notice without the permission of
the Fire Marshal or Building Inspector.
(Ord. No. 350, § 1(8a-9-3), 8-7-84; Ord. No. 241, § 1, 5-2-89)
Sec. 11-2. Transfer of licenses or permits;
   (a)   No license or permit fee shall be returned or transferred unless
specific authorization for transfer or refund is given in the provision
requiring the license or permit.
(Code 1976, 3-9-2; Ord. No. 517, §4, 6-20-95; 2004 City Code)
Sec. 11-3. License for bail bondsmen.
   No person shall act in the capacity of a bail bondsman or perform any of the
functions, duties, or powers prescribed for bail bondsmen under the provisions
of 59 O.S. section 1301 et seq., unless that person shall pay the city clerk a
licensing fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) and an activity fee upon the initial
filing of a bond which shall not exceed five dollars ($5.00) on any bond which
exceeds fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. No. 417, § 1, 2-21-89)
Secs. 11-4--11-15. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. AMUSEMENTS GENERALLY
Sec. 11-16. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Amusement means any:
   (1)   Amusement rides, devices, and structures;
   (2)   Amusement concessions;
   (3)   Roller skating rink; or
   (4)   Transient show.
   Amusement concessions means an entertainment or concession such as a
telescope, electrical machine, lung tester, shooting gallery, penny arcade,
automatic phonograph, knife rack, baby rack, duck pond, and any other
amusements of like character by whatever name; swinging device displayed,
exhibited, or operated for use and patronage by the public in connection with a
carnival or street show.
   Amusement rides, devices and structures means any merry-go-round, Ferris
wheel, roller-coaster, whip, moon walk, or any other devices or structures
designed and used for the carrying of passengers for amusement or otherwise.
   Location means the lot or tract where one (1) or more amusement rides may be
operated together under one (1) management.
(Code 1976, §§ 8a-1-1, 8a-1-5, 8a-1-6; Ord. No. 229, § 2, 3-1-77)
Sec. 11-17. License.
   No person shall operate within the city any amusement without first having
obtained a license so to do and having paid the license fee established by
resolution. Licenses issued under this section may be daily, weekly, or annual.
Annual licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year or when the required
insurance policy expires whichever comes first. No license fee shall be
refunded. No license shall be required for amusement concessions, amusement
rides, devices and structures that are provided in conjunction with an
organized event sponsored by the City, Metropolitan Library System, Civic Club,
or other similar non-profit organization.
(Code 1976, §§ 8a-1-2--8a-1-6; Ord. No. 222, § 3, 3-1-77; Ord. No. 330, § 1,
10-4-83)
Sec. 11-18. Insurance.
   (a)   Prior to the issuance of a license for an amusement ride, device or
structure, the applicant shall file with the city clerk a public liability
insurance policy providing coverage in an amount not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for the injury or death of one (1) person and
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for the injury or death of more
than one (1) person, for damages which may occur to each passenger of such
amusement rides and caused by the negligent operation thereof. (Ord. No. 434,
1, 11-21-89)
   (b)   Subsection (a) does not apply to roller-skating rink licenses.
(Code 1976, § 8a-1-3; Ord. No. 229, § 4, 3-1-77; Ord. No. 434 § 1, 11-21-89)
Secs. 11-19--1-30. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. CONCRETE, CURBING OR PIERING, ETC., CONTRACTORS
Sec. 11-31. Definition.
   In this article "concrete contractor" means a person who engages in the
business of installing or repairing concrete slabs, driveways, approaches or
"flat work."
(Ord. No. 324, § 1, 10-4-83; Ord. No. 514, § 1, 11-15-94)
Sec. 11-32. Permit.
   No person, either as principal or agent, shall contract for or perform any
paving or repair to any streets in the city, or contract for the installation
or repair of concrete slabs, driveways, or approaches without first securing a
permit issued by the city clerk. A fee in the amount established by resolution
shall be paid to the city prior to the issuance of the permit.
(Code 1976, § 30701; Ord. No. 324, § 1, 10-4-83; Ord. No. 514, § 1, 11-15-94)
Sec. 11-33. Bond.
   No concrete contractor shall be issued a permit to install or repair
concrete slabs, driveways, or approaches, or to perform any paving repair to
any streets in the city until he files with the city clerk a bond issued by a
surety company authorized to do business in this state. The amount of the bond
shall be established by resolution of the city council.
Ord. No. 514, § 1, 11-15-94)
Secs. 11-34--11-50. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. CIRCUSES
Sec. 11-51. Definition.
   In this article "circus" means any circus operated or exhibited in any
structure composed wholly or partly of canvas or similar material.
(Code 1976, § 8a-2-1)
Sec. 11-52. Scope.
   This article applies to circuses.
(Code 1976, § 8a-2-1)
Sec. 11-53. License.
   (a)   No person shall operate or exhibit a circus without a license issued
by the city.
   (b)   An application for a circus license shall be filed with the city
clerk. Such application shall show the following information:
   (1)   The name of the owner of such circus;
   (2)   The number trucks used in transporting such circus;
   (3)   The dates and time it is proposed to exhibit such circus;
   (4)   The proposed location of such circus;
   (5)   Proposed location of auxiliary tents with reference to main tent;
   (6)   Seating capacity, including both reserved seats and general admission;
   (7)   A diagram or blueprint made to scale showing the seating arrangement,
aisles, entrances, and exits.
   (c)   A fee in the amount established by resolution shall be paid to the
city prior to the issuance of such license.
   (d)   All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year.
(Code 1976, §§ 8a-2-1--8a-2-3)
Sec. 11-54. Liability insurance.
   The owner or agent of a circus shall, before the approval of the application
by the City Council, file with the city clerk a copy of public liability
insurance policy to which is attached a certificate from the company issuing
such policy showing that such policy shall be in force and effect during such
time as such circus may be within the city. Such policy shall be in the amount
of not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) liability for the
injury or death of one (1) person, and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
the injury or death of more than one (1) person.
(Code 1976, § 8a-2-4; Ord. No. 229, § 5, 3-1-77)
Sec. 11-55. Attendance of city officials.
   The fire chief is hereby authorized and directed to place at each circus
such firefighting apparatus and personnel, as he may deem advisable for the
public safety.
(Code 1976, § 8a-2-12)
Sec. 11-56. Power lines.
   All power lines or wires used to deliver electricity to a circus shall be
installed in accordance with applicable building codes.
Sec. 11-57. Seating.
   All seats and the supports thereof shall be so constructed and assembled as
to support the load intended to be carried. The building inspector shall have
the authority to require additional supports, bracing, or foundations for such
seats if he finds any such seats and the foundations or supports thereof to be
not sufficiently strong to carry the load intended.
(Code 1976, § 8a-2-7)
Sec. 11-58. Smoking prohibited.
   Smoking shall be prohibited within a circus structure at all times. There
shall be displayed in such structure sufficient signs, visible to all persons
therein, giving warning that smoking is prohibited.
(Code 1977, § 8a-2-8)
Sec. 11-59. Sale of tickets limited.
   The sale of tickets of admission in excess of the seating capacity, or the
admission of patrons in excess of such seating capacity, as shown in the
application, is prohibited.
(Code 1976, § 8a-2-10)
Sec. 11-60. Health requirements.
   (a)   All food prepared and served, either to the public or circus personnel
shall be in compliance with applicable state, county, and city regulations.
   (b)   Adequate self-contained portable toilets shall be provided for
employees and patrons. Such toilets shall be not less than one hundred (100)
feet from the place where food is prepared or offered for sale.
(Code 1976, § 8a-2-11; 2012 Code)
Sec. 11-61. Fireproofing of canvas.
   All canvas or similar material used in circus tents and all combustible;
decorative material used inside such tent shall be chemically treated so as to
render the same flameproof.
(Code 1976, § 8a-2-13)
Secs. 11-62--11-75. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. FOOD AND BEVERAGES
Sec. 11-76. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   (1)   Director shall mean the Director of the City County Health Department
or his designated representative.
   (2)   Food or food products shall mean any raw, cooked or processed edible
substance, ice, beverage, or ingredient intended for use or for sale in whole
or in part for human consumption whether the same be simple, mixed, or
compound. Prescription drugs, pharmaceuticals and over the counter medications
shall not be considered as food or food products.
   (3)   Human consumption shall mean the consumption or use by human beings of
articles or products created artificially or by nature, which are or can be
taken internally, orally, or otherwise.
   (4)   Remodel shall mean the reconstruction, reshaping or reformation of a
building used for the production for sale, manufacture for sale, storage, sale,
distribution, or transportation of food necessitating the expenditures of a sum
in excess of fifty (50%) percent of the value of such building exclusive of the
land.
   (5)   Vehicle shall mean any wagon, cart, automobile, truck, pushcart, or
any other mobile equipment.
State law references-General health power of city, 11 O.S. § 22-120; food
generally, 63 O.S. § 1-1101.
Sec. 11-77. State food service establishment standards adopted.
   (a)   The standards and regulations prescribed by the Oklahoma State Board
of Health for Food Service Establishments the Oklahoma State Board of
Agriculture for all foods and food products are hereby adopted by reference as
if set out at length herein as the standards for all food and food products.
Copies of said standards and regulations shall be kept on file in the office of
the City Clerk.
   (b)   No person shall violate the standards adopted by reference in
Subsection (a) above.
State law reference-Adoption by reference, 11 O.S. § 14-107.
Sec. 11-78. Enforcement and inspections.
   The Director shall perform all acts and duties necessary to secure strict
enforcement of this article, and for such purpose the Director shall provide
for reasonable inspections. In addition, the Director shall have the power to
enter every building, room basement or cellar occupied or used, or suspected of
being occupied or used, for the production for sale, manufacture for sale,
storage, sale, distribution, or transportation of food, if such entry is
necessary to effect the immediate seizure of unwholesome food unfit for human
consumption.
Sec. 11-79. Order to improve upon failure to comply with article.
   If, upon inspection, any food producing or distributing establishment,
conveyance, employer, operator, employee, clerk, driver or other person, is
found to be violating any of the provisions of this article, or if the
production, manufacture, packing, storing, sale, distribution, or
transportation of food is being conducted in a manner detrimental to the health
of the employees and operator, or to the character or quality of the food
therein being produced, manufactured, packed, stored, sold, distributed or
conveyed, the Director shall:
   (1)   Issue an order to the responsible person to abate the condition or
violation, or make such improvements as may be necessary, within five (5) days
or within such other reasonable time as he may designate;
   (2)   Take such steps as are necessary for the protection of the public
health and the enforcement of the provisions of this article.
Sec. 11-80. Reporting food unfit for human consumption.
   Every person knowing of any food product, which is purchased, sold, or
offered for sale for human consumption, and which is not fit for human
consumption, shall forthwith report such facts to the City-County Health
Department.
Sec. 11-81. Loitering.
It shall be unlawful for any person, to loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon
any private property where a "no loitering" sign or signs have been posted.
(Ord. 655, § 1, 10-19-2010)
Cross Reference, Chapter 21, Section
21-29.
Secs. 11-82-11-120 Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. RESERVED
ARTICLE VII. HANDBILL DISTRIBUTORS
Sec. 11-121. License.
   Each person engaged in the business of advertising by distributing handbills
or circulars, or other advertising matter shall obtain a license from the city
clerk. Prior to the issuance of the license, a fee in the amount established by
resolution of the city council shall be paid to the city clerk. All licenses
shall expire on June 30 of each year.
(Code 1976, 8a-4-4); Ord. No. 517, §6, 6-20-95)
Secs. 11-122--11-135. Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. RESERVED
Secs. 11-136--11-150. Reserved.
ARTICLE IX. PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 11-151. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Peddler includes the words "hawker" and "huckster" and means any person,
whether a resident of this city or not, who travels by foot or by any type of
conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street
carrying, conveying, or transporting good, wares, or merchandise of whatsoever
nature, offering and exposing the same for sale, or who, without traveling from
place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from any vehicle or
conveyance, or on any public street or thoroughfare.
   Solicitor includes the word canvasser and means any person, whether a
resident of this city or not, who travels by foot or by any type of conveyance
from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or
personal property of whatsoever nature for future delivery, or for services to
be furnished or performed in the future.
(Code 1976, § 8a-4-2)
Sec. 11-152. Exemptions.
This article does not apply to:
   (1)   Persons engaged in selling personal property at wholesale to dealers
in such property;
   (2)   Merchants having regular places of business in this city, and their
employees, in taking orders at the houses of their customers for goods held in
stock at said places of business, and in delivering the goods so ordered;
   (3)   Newsboys selling or delivering newspapers;
   (4)   Any delivery man delivering foodstuffs on a regular daily route, from
house to house, operating in compliance with the state health regulations;
   (5)   Any person engaged in sales activity or solicitation on behalf of any
charitable, benevolent, religious, nonprofit, or eleemosynary organization.
Persons engaged in sales activity or solicitation on behalf of any such
organization shall not be exempt from the operating hours provided for in
section
11-153 of this article;
   (6)   Any ex-service person as defined in 72 O.S., § 67.13a, however, each
person who engages in the handling and selling of any product which is intended
for human consumption, and claims exemption under the aforementioned law, shall
be required to present a health certificate, and documentary proof of past
government service to the city clerk. Thereupon, the city clerk shall issue a
license to such person which will be limited to a period of one (1) year
expiring on December 31 of each year;
   (7)   Farmers and truck gardeners who offer for sale or sell, or who peddle
and sell from house-to-house vegetables, butter, eggs, and farm products,
produced, and raised by said farmers and truck gardeners from lands owned,
cultivated, or controlled by them.
(Code 1976, § 8a-4-3; Ord. No. 416, § 1, 2-21-89)
Sec. 11-153. Operating hours; Invitation required to enter posted premises.
   (a)   No peddler or solicitor shall call on any person at their home:
   (1)   From April 1 through August 31, after 6:00 p.m.;
   (2)   From September 1 through March 31, after 5:00 p.m.;
   (3)   Earlier than 9:00 a.m.; unless such peddler or solicitor had made
prior arrangements with such person to call at their home after such times.
(Code 1976, § 8a-4-9; Ord. No. 290, § 1, 5-5-81)
   (b)   No solicitor or peddler shall enter any premises or attempt to sell,
peddle, or solicit where the owner or occupant of such premises has indicated
his desire not to be contacted for sales or solicitation by the placing of a
"No Solicitors," "No Trespassers," or "No Trespassing" sign on those premises,
and any such entrance or attempt to sell, peddle, or solicit shall constitute a
trespass upon private property.
(Ord. No. 486, § 1, 6-15-93)
Sec. 11-154. Noise, etc.
   No peddler or solicitor shall call attention to his business, or to the
wares, which he may have for sale by crying them out, by blowing a horn, by
ringing a bell, or by any other noisemaking device. No such person shall, by
means of dancing, singing, or other exhibitions or in any way interfere with
the free passage of pedestrians and vehicles, along the streets.
(Code 1976, § 8a-4-6)
Secs. 1-155--11-165. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
Sec. 11-166. Required.
   No person shall engage in the business of peddling or soliciting without
first obtaining a license. A separate license must be obtained for each branch
established or separate place of business in which the trade, calling or
occupation, or profession, is carried on, and each license shall authorize the
person obtaining it to carry on, pursue, or conduct only that trade, calling or
profession or occupation, described in that license and only at the location or
place of business, which is indicated thereby, and in conformity with all
ordinances and laws.
(Code 1976, §§ 8a-4-1, 8a-4-5)
Sec. 11-167. Application.
   Applicants for a license under this division shall file with the city clerk
in duplicate a sworn application in writing on a form to be furnished by the
clerk, which shall give the following information:
   (1)   Name and brief description of applicant;
   (2)   Address of applicant;
   (3)   Nature of business and kinds of goods to be sold or services to be
rendered and if applicant is a farmer or truck gardener, whether the good are
produced by him on lands he owns, cultivates, and controls;
   (4)   If employed by or an agent of another, the name and address of the
applicant's employer or principal together with a brief description of
credentials showing the exact relationship;
   (5)   Length of time for which the right to do business is desired and if
the activity involves the calling on people in their homes the hours of the day
in which the applicant contemplates the doing of the activity;
   (6)   Description and license number or other identification of any vehicle
to be used.
Sec. 11-168. Investigation and issuance.
   (a)   The city clerk shall cause such other investigation or inquiry to be
made concerning the applicant as he may deem necessary to determine the
character and business responsibility of the applicant, and whether his
application is in compliance with the terms and conditions of this article. If
as a result of such investigation the character and business responsibility of
the applicant are found to be satisfactory and the application is in compliance
with the terms and conditions of this article, the city clerk, upon payment of
the prescribed fees, shall issue said license with any badge, tag, or license
plates properly as an accompaniment thereto.
   (b)   No peddler or any peddler's helper engaged in the business or
occupation of buying or selling fruits, produce, or other foodstuffs of any
kind intended for human consumption shall receive a license unless the
applicant submits a health certificate for the individuals involved in such
peddling.
(Code 1976, § 8a-4-8)
Sec. 11-169. Fee.
   No license shall be issued under this division until the applicant pays to
the city clerk a fee in the amount established by resolution of the city
council. Annual license fees shall be prorated on a monthly basis provided
however, that no prorated license shall be less than ten ($10.00) dollars.
(Code 1976, 8a-4-1, 8a-4-11; Ord. No. 517, §7, 6-20-95)
Sec. 11-170. Term.
   Licenses issued under this division shall expire weekly; monthly or annual
licenses may be issued. Annual licenses expire on June 30 of each year.
(Code 1976, § 8a-4-11)
Sec. 11-171. Form.
   Licenses issued under this division shall be signed by the city clerk and
the clerk shall affix the corporate seal of the city thereto.
(Code 1976, § 8a-4-11)
Sec. 11-172. Transfer.
   No license shall be transferred from one person to any other person,
provided that in the event any person, during the calendar year for which such
license was issued, change the location of the business or occupation described
in such license, such person shall file with the city clerk a statement, in
writing, describing such change and giving the new address and location, and
thereupon the city clerk shall at no cost endorse the new location on the
license.
(Code 1976, §§ 8a-4-1, 8a-4-5)
Sec. 11-173. Display.
   Peddlers or solicitors shall exhibit their licenses at the request of any
resident of the city.
(Code 1976, § 8a-4-10)
Sec. 11-174. Revocation.
   In the event of any complaint filed by a citizen or officer alleging the
violation of this article the city manager and the chief of police will
immediately review the facts and allegations and if they ascertain such
complaints or allegations are true, they shall immediately revoke the license
for a period of not less than six (6) months beginning as of the day of the
offense. A person whose license has been revoked may appeal the decision to the
municipal judge, by posting a cash bond in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00) and the municipal judge may assess a fine and court costs and may
eliminate the revocation in toto or any part thereof.
(Ord. No. 290, § 2(8a-4-12), 5-5-81)
Secs. 11-175--11-185. Reserved.
ARTICLE X. POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS
Sec. 11-186. License.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any pool or billiard table
in any place where such games are publicly played without first obtaining a
license for each table so kept. A fee in the amount established by resolution
shall be paid to the city for such license. Licenses shall expire on June 30 of
each year.
(Code 1976, § 8a-5-1)
Secs. 11-187--11-200. Reserved.
ARTICLE XI. Reserved
Secs. 11-201--11-240. Reserved.
ARTICLE XII. RESIDENTIAL SALES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 11-241. Definition.
   In this article, "residential sale" shall mean any sale of what is held out
to be or is commonly known as a garage, porch, room, backyard or patio sale or
any other type of general sale conducted from or on any premises not located in
a zoning district which permits such sales, where goods or articles of any type
are held out for sale to the public. "Residential sale" shall not include a
situation where specific items are held out for sale and all advertisement of
such sale specifically names the items to be sold or an estate sale in which
all items for sale are displayed indoors and out of public view.
(Code 1976, § 8a-7-1)
Sec. 11-242. Violations.
   Every article sold and every day a sale is conducted in violation of this
article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1976, § 8a-7-10)
Sec. 11-243. Exemptions.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
   (1)   Persons acting pursuant to an order of a court of competent
jurisdiction;
   (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   (3)   Duly licensed auctioneers selling at auctions;
   (4)   Charitable organizations or persons, when the proceeds from the sale
are used directly for charitable purposes and the goods or articles are not
sold on a consignment basis.
(Code 1976, § 8a-7-11)
Sec. 11-244. Signs.
   (a)   One sign, to be purchased by the applicant from the City at cost, may
be placed on the right-of-way of a major thoroughfare and may be used by the
purchaser for any residential sale for which the purchaser is properly licensed
by the City. Any residential sale sign placed on the right-of-way without a
valid license shall be subject to impoundment by the City and shall be returned
to the rightful owner upon the payment to the City Clerk a fee of twenty-five
($25.00) dollars.
   (b)   One (1) sign may be placed by the licensee at the location of the sale
and may be purchased from the City at cost.
(Code 1976, § 8a-7-7; Ord. No. 358, § 1, 9-3-85; Ord. No. 518 §1, 7-18-95; Ord.
No. 583, §1, 5-20-03; Ord. No. 627, §1, 8-7-2007; 2008 Code)
Sec. 11-245. Display of goods.
   The sale area of any residential sale shall be confined to the premises for
which the license has been issued.
(Code 1976, § 8a-7-8)
Sec. 11-246. Non-Consecutive Day Sales.
   a)   Residents that are sixty-five (65) years of age or older and who
purchase a regular residential sale permit at the regular fee established by
Resolution of the Council, shall be allowed to hold, three single-day
residential sales over a period of thirty (30) days.
   b)   Licenses issued pursuant to this Section shall be subject to all other
regulations and limitations established by Chapter 11, Article XII.
(Ord. No. 669, §1, 02-07-2012)
Sec. 11-247. City-Wide Garage Sales.
A Residential Sale license shall not be required for residential sales on the
1st full weekend of May and October. Residential sales held pursuant to this
Section shall be subject to all other regulations and limitations established
by
Chapter 11, Article XII.
(Ord. No. 712, § 1, 10-06-2015)
Secs. 11-248--11-260. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
Sec. 11-261. Required.
   No person shall hold, conduct, engage in, or participate in any manner, in a
residential sale without a license issued by the city. A separate license shall
be required for each location at which a residential sale is to be held.
(Code 1976, § 8a-7-2(a), (c); Ord. No. 341, § 1, 4-3-84)
Sec. 11-262. Application.
   An applicant for a license under this division shall furnish the city clerk
with the following information:
   (1)   Full name and address;
   (2)   The location at which the proposed residential sale is to be held;
   (3)   The date, or dates upon which the sale shall be held;
   (4)   An affidavit from the applicant to the effect that all goods to be
sold at the residential sale are owned by the applicant and have not been
obtained for the purpose of reselling them at the sale. The filing of a false
affidavit is unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 8a-7-3)
Sec. 11-263. Issuance; term.
   (a)   The city clerk is hereby authorized to grant a license for a
residential sale for a period not to exceed three (3) consecutive days to any
person applying who otherwise complies with the requirements of the Code. A
license may be denied by the city clerk if the application submitted by the
applicant or contains any false, fraudulent, or misleading statement.
   (b)   No household shall be eligible for more than two (2) licenses issued
under this division in any calendar year, provided that no residential sale
shall be held within three months of the previous residential sale. If a
residential sale is not held on the dates for which the license is issued or is
terminated during the first day of the sale because of inclement weather
conditions or other mitigating circumstances, and an affidavit by the license
holder to this effect is submitted, the city clerk may issue another license to
the applicant for a residential sale to be conducted at the same location
within thirty (30) days from the date when the first sale was to be held.
   (c)   Before issuing a residential sale license, the city clerk may conduct
such investigation as may reasonably be necessary to determine if there is
compliance with this Code.
   (d)   The issuance of a license shall not exempt a person from the terms and
provisions of other ordinances.
(Code 1976, §§ 8a-7-2(b), (c), 8a-7-4, 8a-7-9; Ord. No. 341, § 1, 4-3-84 (Ord.
No. 527, 1, 6-25-96; Ord. No. 657, § 1, 12-07-2010))
Sec. 11-264. Fee.
   A fee in the amount established by resolution shall be paid to the city
prior to the issuance of a residential sale license.
(Code 1976, § 8a-7-5)
Sec. 11-265. Revocation.
   Any license issued under this article may be revoked by the city clerk if
the application submitted by the license holder contains any false, fraudulent,
or misleading statement. If any person is convicted of an offense under this
article, the city clerk shall cancel any existing residential sale license held
by the person convicted and shall not issue such person another residential
sale license for a period of two (2) years from the date of conviction.
(Code 1976, § 8a-7-9)
DIV 3. AUCTIONS/ESTATE SALES
Sec. 11-266. Auctions/estate sales defined.
As used in this article, the term auction/estate sale shall mean an event
involving the sale of personal property through the process of bidding.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-267. Interval between auctions/estate sales.
No person, firm or organization shall hold, conduct, engage in or participate
in any manner or allow an auction/estate sale to be held or conducted on-
premises under his control or ownership more than one (1) time in any twelve-
month period.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-268. Signs.
Signs advertising the auction/estate sale are permitted. Signs may be no larger
than two (2) square feet in area and shall be limited in number to two (2)
signs on the property involved and two (2) signs off the premises. Off-premises
signs shall be allowed on the City right-of-way. All signs must be at least
twelve feet from the curb and be removed within twenty-four (24) hours of the
completion of the auction/estate sale.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-269. Locations.
The provisions of this article shall apply only to those events being conducted
in residentially zoned areas. In residentially zoned areas, the auction/estate
sale shall be confined to the premises for which the permit has been issued.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-270. Violations.
Every date an auction/estate sale is conducted in violation of this article
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-271. Accessory activities prohibited.
No sale of food or beverages shall be permitted in conjunction with an auction
or estate sale.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-272. Exemptions.
The provisions of the article shall not apply to or affect the following:
   (1)   Nonprofit organizations; and
   (2)   Charitable organizations or persons when all gross sales from the sale
are used directly for charitable purposes and the goods or articles are not
sold on a consignment basis.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-273. Permit required.
No person shall hold, conduct, engage in or participate in any manner in an
auction/estate sale without a permit for same. A separate permit shall be
required for each location at which an auction/estate sale is to be held and no
location shall be eligible for more than one (1) permit in any twelve-month
period.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-274. Permit fee.
The fee for an auction/estate sale permit shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00).
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-275. Application for permit.
An applicant for a permit required by this article shall furnish the city clerk
with the following information:
   (1)   Full name and address of applicant;
   (2)   The location at which the proposed auction/estate sale is to be held;
   (3)   The date or dates upon which the sale shall be held; and
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-276. Issuance of permit.
   (a)   The city clerk is hereby authorized to grant a permit for an auction/
estate sale for a period from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on three (3) consecutive
days to any person applying who otherwise complies with the requirements of
this Code.
   (b)   If an auction/estate sale is not held on the date for which the permit
is issued or is terminated because of inclement weather conditions and an
affidavit by the permittee to this effect is submitted, the city clerk may
issue another permit to the applicant for an auction/estate sale to be
conducted at the same location within thirty (30) days from the date when the
first auction/estate sale was to be held. The permittee shall advise the city
clerk of the new date.
   (c)   Before issuing a permit, the city clerk may conduct such investigation
as may reasonably be necessary to determine if there is compliance with this
Code.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-277. Refusal to issue permit; revocation.
   (a)   Any permit issued under this article may be revoked or any application
for issuance of a permit may be refused by the city clerk if the application
submitted by the applicant contains any false, fraudulent, or misleading
statement.
   (b)   If any person is convicted of an offense under this article, the
person may have their existing auction/estate sale permit cancelled and not be
issued another auction/estate sale permit for a period of two (2) years from
the date of conviction.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 11-278. Compliance with other ordinances.
The issuance of a permit under the provisions of this article shall not exempt
such persons from the terms and provisions of other ordinances.
(Ord. No 707, § 1, 07-21-2015)
Secs. 11-279 - 11-280 Reserved.
ARTICLE XIII. SEWER OR WATER MAIN CONTRACTORS
Sec. 11-281. Permit.
   No person shall perform any sewer main or water main construction in the
city without first securing a permit issued by the city clerk. No such permit
shall be issued until the applicant pays to the city a fee in the amount
established by resolution.
(Code 1976, § 3-7-2; Ord. No. 514, § 2, 11-15-94)
Sec. 11-282. Bond.
   No permit shall be issued under this article until the applicant files with
the city clerk a bond in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) issued by
a surety company authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall be
conditioned to indemnify the city against any damage to streets, sewers or
other public property done by the permittee.
Secs. 11-283--11-295. Reserved.
ARTICLE XIV. SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Sec. 11-296. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the terms "sexual conduct" and "specified
anatomical areas" shall mean as follows:
   (1)   "Sexual conduct" includes the following:
   a.   The fondling or other touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or developed female breasts;
   b.   Ultimate sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, sodomy;
Cross-references--Obscene materials and conduct, §
12-48; material harmful to minors, §
12-49.
   c.   Masturbation; and
   d.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in a. through c., above.
   (2)   "Specified anatomical areas" includes the following:
   a.    Human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breast below a
point immediately above the top of the areola.
   b.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   (b)   For purposes of this article, sexually oriented businesses are defined
as follows:
   (1)   Adult amusement or entertainment: Amusement or entertainment which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on acts or material depicting,
describing, or relating to sexual conduct or specified anatomical areas, as
defined herein, including but not limited to topless or bottomless dancers,
exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar
entertainment.
   (2)   Adult bookstore: An establishment having as a significant portion of
its stock in trade books, film, magazines, and other periodicals, which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
sexual, conduct or specified anatomical areas.
   (3)   Adult mini-motion pictures theater: An enclosed building with a
capacity of less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting sexual conduct or
specified anatomical areas.
   (4)   Adult motion picture arcade: Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled, still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing sexual conduct or specified anatomical areas.
   (5)   Adult motion picture theater: An enclosed building with a capacity of
fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual conduct or
specified anatomical areas.
   (6)   Massage parlor: Any place where for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration, or fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body
occurs as part of or in connection with sexual conduct or where any person
providing such treatment, manipulation or service related thereto exposes
specified anatomical areas. Massage parlors do not include massage therapists,
as described in Chapter 24, Section
24-188(A)(45) of this Code. (Ord. No. 734, §1, 01-15-2018)
   (7)   Model studio: Any place other than university or college art classes
where, for any form of consideration or gratuity, figure models who display
specific anatomical areas are provided to be observed, sketched, drawn,
painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by persons paying such
consideration or gratuity.
   (8)   Sexual encounter center: Any building or structure which contains or
is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is
charged a fee to engage in personal contact with or allow personal contact by
employees, devices, or equipment or by personnel provided by the establishment
which appeals to the prurient interest of the patron, to include but not to be
limited to bath houses, massage parlors, and related or similar activities.
(Ord. No. 377, § 1, 1-20-87)
Sec. 11-297. Prohibition.
   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of any of the sexually
oriented businesses as defined in section
11-296, in an area zoned other than "C-2" Commercial. In addition, no person
shall cause or permit the establishment of any of the sexually oriented
businesses, as defined in section
11-296 within one thousand (1,000) feet of any other sexually oriented
business, or within one thousand (1,000) feet of a church, school (type which
offers a compulsory education curriculum), public or private park, or within
one thousand (1,000) feet of a residential lot.
   The establishment of a sexually oriented business shall include the opening
of such business as a new business, the relocation of such business, the
enlargement of such business in either scope or area, or the conversion of an
existing business location to any of the uses described in
11-296.
(Ord. No. 377, § 2, 1-20-87)
Sec. 11-298. Penalty for violations.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this article
shall be guilty of a Class A Offense punishable by a fine of up to seven-
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) plus costs, or by sixty (60) days
imprisonment, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. No. 377, § 5, 1-20-87)
Sec. 11-299. Adult Novelty Shops.
   (a)   Definitions: As used in this section:
   (1)   "Adult novelty shop" means a commercial establishment that displays,
sells, or offers for sale instruments, devices, or paraphernalia designed or
marketed primarily for use to stimulate human genital organs or for use in
connection with sadomasochistic practices; and
   (2)   "Sadomasochistic practices" means flagellation or torture by or upon a
person clothed or naked, or the condition of being fettered, bound, or
otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed or naked.
   (b)   The location of an adult novelty shop shall be in compliance with
applicable C-2 Commercial Zoning regulations of the city and may not be located
within one thousand (1,000) feet of:
   (1)   Any building primarily and regularly used for worship services and
religious activities;
   (2)   Any public or private school;
   (3)   Any public park or playground;
   (4)   Any public library; or
   (5)   Any land zoned or used for residential purposes.
   If any such building used for worship and religious activity, any public or
private school, any public park or playground, any public library or any land
zoned or used for residential purposes shall be established within one thousand
(1,000) feet of any such premises after the premises have been established,
this shall not be a bar to the continuation of the business so long as it has
been in continuous force and effect. The distance indicated in this subsection
shall be measured from the nearest property line of such church or school to
the nearest public entrance door of the premises of the adult novelty shop
along the street right-of-way line providing the nearest direct route usually
traveled by pedestrians between such points. For purposes of determining
measured distance, property situated on the opposite side of the street from
such church or school shall be considered as if it were located on the same
side of the street with such church or school.
(Ord. No. 539, §1, 2-3-98)
State Law Reference: Title 11, §22-109.1.
Secs. 11-300--11-310. Reserved.
ARTICLE XV. WATER WELLS
Sec. 11-311. Drilling permit required.
   (a)   No person shall drill, dig, or put down any water well or wells upon
any premises within the city without first securing a permit and paying the fee
prescribed herein.
(Ord. No. 291, § 1, 6-2-81; Ord. No. 514, § 3, 11-15-94)
Sec. 11-312. Permit for each well.
   (a)   Application for drilling permit. Any person desiring to drill a water
well shall, before commencing actual drilling, make written application to the
city clerk for a permit and shall give the location of the proposed well by
street number, lot, block, and addition and also the name of the owner of the
premises.
   (b)   Applicant must describe any off-premises use of water. Any person
desiring to use the water derived from any well for any use other than to
benefit the property upon which the well is located or for domestic,
commercial, or industrial purposes thereon shall, before commencing to make any
other use of the water, apply in writing to the city council for a permit and
set forth the use intended to be made of the water and also the date required
hereinabove for a drilling permit.
(Ord. No. 291, § 2, 6-2-81)
Sec. 11-313. Bond required.
   (a)   Any person having obtained a permit to drill a water well shall,
before commencing actual drilling, file with the city clerk a good and
sufficient bond or certificate of liability covering each water well for which
a permit is applied; executed by some bonding or indemnity company or insurance
company authorized to do business in the state, running to the City of The
Village and conditioned that the applicant shall pay and discharge any
liability imposed by law for damages on account of injury to property, either
private or public, or bodily injury, including death, received or suffered by
any person and resulting from the drilling, operation, or maintenance of any
such water well or structure, equipment, machinery, tanks, pipes, and
appurtenances thereto, and will abide by and comply with all of the provisions
of this article or other requirements of law.
   (b)   The minimum total liability under the bond or certificate of liability
insurance for loss or damage, either to person or property, shall be one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). The bond or certificate of insurance
shall be made for a period of not less than one year.
(Ord. No. 291, § 3, 6-2-81; Ord. No. 514, § 3, 11-15-94)
Sec. 11-314. Fees for permit.
   (a)   The fee for a permit for drilling, digging, or putting down any water
well shall be established by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. No. 291, § 4, 6-2-81; Ord. No. 514, § 3, 11-15-94)
Sec. 11-315. Regulations for drilling, casing, logging.
   (a)   Drilling of well. In the drilling of a water well, the driller shall
fix, install, or set a minimum of ten (10) feet of surface pipe or casing and
shall use throughout, standard acceptable pipe. In all other respects, the
water well driller shall meet the minimum requirements established and
published by the state department of health and state water resources board. No
mud shall be permitted to escape on the street, either directly or indirectly,
but shall be hauled away and disposed of so as not to injure the streets and
private or public property.
   (b)   Abandonment of well. If a well is nonproductive of water, the driller
shall satisfactorily cap and plug the well so that it will not be dangerous to
persons or animals. If a well is productive of water but is later abandoned,
the owner shall plug and cap the well.
(Ord. No. 291, § 5, 6-2-81)
Sec. 11-316. Connection of well to public water supply.
   (a)   Connection prohibited. No person shall connect any private water well
to the public water system.
   (b)   Use of well water in a structure. Where water from a private well is
piped into any structure, all plumbing provisions of the Village City Code and
regulations shall be complied with.
(Ord. No. 291, § 6, 6-2-81)
Cross-reference--Plumbing, §
6-131 et seq.
Sec. 11-317. Inspection of water wells.
   All existing water wells, which are or are not use, or any well or wells
hereafter drilled shall be open and accessible at all times to the inspection
of the state health department and city officials.
(Ord. No. 291, § 7, 6-2-81)
Secs. 11-318--11-329. Reserved.
ARTICLE XVI. MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. CHRISTMAS TREE SALES
Sec. 11-330. Definition.
   In this division "Christmas tree sale" shall mean any sale held by a
charitable or nonprofit organization on property where such sales are permitted
and in which Christmas trees of any type are placed outdoors and held out for
sale to the public.
(Ord. No. 400, § 1, 12-1-87)
Sec. 11-331. Violations.
   Every day a sale is conducted in violation of this division shall constitute
a separate offense.
Sec. 11-332. Signs.
   (a)   Not more than two (2) signs or other devices used for the purpose of
advertising or otherwise calling attention to the Christmas tree sale shall be
allowed for each license issued under this article.
   (b)   The display surface of a sign or device shall not exceed nine (9)
square feet on each side.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to attach, or place said sign on any utility pole
or on any city right-of-way or utility easement.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful to place any said sign or device until after
Thanksgiving.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful to leave any sign or device on display after
December twenty-fifth.
(Ord. No. 400, § 1, 12-1-87)
Cross reference--Signs generally,
Chapter 20.
Sec. 11-333. Display of goods.
   (a)   The sale area of any Christmas tree sale shall be confined to the
premises for which the license has been issued.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to place goods for sale on any city right-of-way
or utility easement.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to display any trees for sale except for the
period between the day after Thanksgiving and December twenty-fifth.
(Ord. No. 400, § 1, 12-1-87)
Sec. 11-334. Hours of sale.
   No person shall conduct Christmas tree sales between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. No. 400, § 1, 12-1-87)
Sec. 11-335. License--Required.
   No person shall hold, conduct, engage in, or participate in any manner in a
Christmas tree sale without a license issued by the city. A separate license
shall be required for each location at which a Christmas tree sale is to be
held.
(Ord. No. 400, § 1, 12-1-87)
Sec. 11-336. Same--Application.
   An application for a license under this article shall furnish the city clerk
with the following information:
   (1)   Full name and address.
   (2)   The location at which the proposed Christmas tree sale shall be held.
   (3)   An affidavit from the applicant to the effect that the proceeds from
the sale are used directly for charitable or nonprofit purposes and the trees
are not sold on a consignment basis unless such consignment is from another
charitable or nonprofit organization. The filing of a false affidavit is
unlawful.
(Ord. No. 400, § 1, 12-1-87)
Sec. 11-337. Same--Issuance time.
   (a)   All licenses for Christmas tree sales shall be for a period beginning
the day after Thanksgiving and through December twenty-fifth.
   (b)   A license may be denied by the city clerk if the application submitted
by the applicant contains any false, fraudulent, or misleading statement.
   (c)   Before issuing a Christmas tree sale license, the city clerk may
conduct such investigation as may reasonably be necessary to determine if there
is compliance with this Code.
   (d)   The issuance of a license shall not exempt a person from the terms and
provisions of other ordinances.
(Ord. No. 400, § 1, 12-1-87)
Sec. 11-338. Same--Fees.
   A fee in the amount established by resolution shall be paid to the city
prior to the issuance of a Christmas tree sale license.
(Ord. No. 400, § 1, 12-1-87)
Sec. 11-339. Same--Revocation.
   Any license issued under this article may be revoked by the city clerk if
the application submitted by the license holder contains any false, fraudulent,
or misleading statement. If any person is convicted of an offense under this
article, the city clerk shall cancel any existing Christmas tree sale license
held by the person convicted and shall not issue such person another Christmas
tree sale license for a period of two (2) years form the date of conviction.
(Ord. No. 400, § 1, 12-1-87)
Sec. 11-340. Location.
   Sales authorized under this article shall be conducted only on property
owned by a charitable or nonprofit organization and in accordance with
applicable zoning district regulations.
Secs. 11-341--11-350 Reserved.
DIVISION 2. OUTSIDE DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE
Sec. 11-351. Outside display of merchandise, etc.
   (a)   In this division sidewalk sale means an outdoor sale conducted on
private property for a period of not exceeding three (3) consecutive days and
which is held on property where retail sales are a permitted use.
   (b)   Articles or material stored or offered for sale in connection with the
permitted use of the property shall not be stored or displayed outside the
confines of the building except for seasonal or holiday merchandise which may
include such items as yard and garden supplies, trees, flowers, shrubs, lawn
equipment, landscape materials, lawn furniture, and other similar items located
on the sidewalk or other open areas in front of or adjacent to the building or
place of business.
   (c)   No merchandise in connection with paragraph (a) above shall be stacked
any higher than five (5) feet above the surface on which it is placed.
   (d)   The provisions under paragraph (a) above shall not apply to automobile
service stations engaged in the sale of gasoline and oil, where open display is
permitted of merchandise commonly sold by said stations, i.e., oil, batteries,
tires, wiper blades, and other similar automotive products.
   (e)   The regulations in this section shall not apply when the occupants are
conducting sidewalk sales or similar events; provided, however, that the
display of articles, material or merchandise for sale shall not displace the
minimum number of parking spaces required under this chapter for the operation
of uses permitted.
Sec. 11-352. Violations.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or neglect to
comply with any provision of this division. Any person who shall violate any of
the provisions of this division shall be guilty of an offense. Every day a
violation of this division exists shall be considered a separate offense.
(Code 1976, § 12-4-3(A), § 12-6-14; Ord. No. 252, § 2, 1-16-79; Ord. No. 299, §
2, 8-3-82; Ord. No. 344, §1, 5-1-84; Ord. No. 422, § 1, 5-2-89; Ord. No. 439, §
2, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 507, § 1, 9-20-94)
ARTICLE XVII. TELEPHONIC ALARM SYSTEM PERMITS
Sec. 11-360. Definition.
   "Telephonic alarm system" shall mean any mechanism, equipment, or device,
which is designed to operate automatically through the use of public telephone
facilities to transmit a signal, message or warning to the police department or
designated nine-one-one (9-1-1) emergency system number as defined by 63 O.S.
Section 2813 et seq.
(Ord. No. 415, § 1, 1-17-89)
Sec. 11-316. Permit required.
   No person shall operate or maintain a telephonic alarm system, which
automatically dials or transmits a signal message or warning to either:
   (a)   Any city police department telephone line, without first obtaining a
permit as required by this article; or
   (b)   The designated nine-one-one (9-1-1) emergency telephone service as
defined by 63 O.S. Section 2813 et seq.
(Ord. No. 415, § 1, 1-17-89)
Sec. 11-362. Application for permit; revocation.
   (a)   Applications for a permit to install, reconnect, maintain, or operate
a telephonic alarm system, which automatically dials the city police department
telephone number(s) shall be filed with the chief of police on forms supplied
by the city, together with a reasonable permit fee in an amount established by
resolution of the city council.
   (b)   The chief of police is authorized to establish reasonable requirements
for the issuance of permits for the installation of telephonic alarm systems so
long as such installations do not interfere with the orderly conduct of the
activity of the police department.
   (c)   Section 11-362, subsection (b) shall apply to alarm equipment
installed after January 17, 1989.
   (d)   The chief of police may revoke any permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this article, after giving written notice to the permit holder
and a reasonable opportunity for the permit holder to be heard, if he
determines that the telephonic alarm system installed pursuant to said permit
operates in violation of the provisions of this article, or any terms and
conditions of said permit to include, but not limited to, the occurrence of
excessive false alarms or the failure to pay any annual service fee as may be
specified by the city council.
   (e)   In the event a permit is revoked for any of the reasons provided for
in this article, the chief of police may cause the disconnection of the
telephonic alarm system device so installed in the police department.
(Ord. No. 415, § 1, 1-17-89)
Sec. 11-363. Operation and maintenance of equipment.
   It shall be the sole responsibility of the permittee to ensure that all
telephonic alarm system equipment installed in the police department by permit
is properly installed and maintained by the permit holder who shall be
responsible for all expenses incurred in the operation and maintenance of all
such equipment.
(Ord. No. 415, § 1, 1-17-89)
ARTICLE XVIII Reserved.
ARTICLE XIX. SIGN CONTRACTORS
Secs. 11-417--11-499. Reserved.
Sec. 11-500. Permit.
   No person, either as principal or agent, shall install, modify, or
structurally repair any pole sign, monument sign or commercial building sign in
the city without first securing a permit issued by the city clerk. A fee in the
amount established by resolution shall be paid to the city prior to the
issuance of the permit.
(Ord. No. 514, § 4, 11-15-94)
Sec. 11-501. Bond required.
   (a)   No permit shall be issued to any person to install, modify, or
structurally repair any pole sign, monument sign or commercial building sign
until the applicant therefore shall have deposited with the city clerk a surety
bond in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to be known as "sign
contractor's bond." The bond shall be executed by the sign contractor and the
surety thereon shall be a corporate surety authorized to do business in the
State.
   (b)   The bond shall be in the favor of the city and conditioned that the
permittee shall faithfully and properly conduct his business in compliance with
the laws and ordinances of the city relating to signs and sign contractors and
for the payment of all fines and penalties imposed by the violation of such
laws.
The bond shall be conditioned further that the principal shall do all sign work
in a good and workmanlike manner.
   (c)   The bond shall be renewed annually, and no person shall engage in the
business of a sign contractor unless the bond as provided in this section is on
file with the city clerk. No permit shall be issued to any sign contractor
until the bond has been filed and approved. (Ord. No. 455, § 1, 4-16-91; Ord.
No. 514, § 4, 11-15-94)
ARTICLE XX. PAWNBROKERS
Secs. 11-502--11-599 Reserved.
State law reference -- 59 O.S. § 1514.
Sec. 11-600. Definitions.
As used in this Article:
   1.   "Pawnbroker" means a person engaged in the business of making pawn
transactions.
   2.   "Pawnshop" means the location at which or premises in which a
pawnbroker regularly conducts business.
   3.   "Pawn transaction" means the act of lending money on the security of
pledged goods or the act of purchasing tangible personal property on condition
that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a
fixed period of time.
   4.   "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture,
trust, association, or any other legal entity however organized.
   5.   "Pledged goods," means tangible personal property other than choses in
action, securities, or printed evidence of indebtedness, which property is
deposited with or otherwise actually delivered into the possession of a
pawnbroker in the course of his business in connection with a pawn transaction.
(Ord. No. 488, 8-3-93, § 1)
Sec. 11-601. License required.
   No person shall operate as a pawnbroker without having first secured a valid
state license as required by 59 O.S. § 1501 et. seq., and an annual license
from the City Clerk as a regulatory fee and license.
(Ord. No. 488, 8-3-93, § 1)
Sec. 11-602. Effect of license--Annual fee.
A.   Each license shall state the name of the licensee and the address at which
the business is to be conducted. The license shall be displayed at the place of
business named in the license. The license shall not be transferable or
assignable.
B.   A separate license shall be required for each pawnshop operated under this
Article.
C.   Each license shall remain in full force and effect until relinquished,
suspended, revoked, or expired. Every licensee, on or before each June 30,
shall pay to the city clerk an annual license fee for the succeeding fiscal
year in an amount established by resolution of the city council. If the annual
fee remains unpaid fifteen (15) days after written notice of delinquency has
been given to the licensee by the city clerk, the license shall thereupon
expire, but expiration shall not occur before July 30 of any year for which an
annual fee has been paid. Annual license fees shall be prorated on a monthly
basis provided however, that no prorated license shall be less than ten
($10.00) dollars.
(Ord. No. 488, 1, 8-3-93; Ord. No. 517, §9, 6-20-95)
Sec. 11-603. Revocation, suspension, reinstatement of license.
A.   The City Clerk may, after notice and hearing, suspend or revoke any
license if he finds that:
   1.   The licensee has failed to pay any fee or charge properly imposed by
the City Clerk under the authority of this Article.
   2.   The Licensee, either knowingly or without the exercise of due care to
prevent the same, has violated any provision of state law or this Article or
any regulation or order lawfully made pursuant to and within the authority of
this Article; or
   3.   Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed or had been known
to exist at the time of the original application for license, clearly would
have justified the City Clerk in refusing the license.
B.   The hearing shall be held upon twenty (20) days' notices in writing,
setting forth the time and place thereof and a concise statement of the facts
alleged to warrant suspension or revocation. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the City Clerk shall prepare a written order setting forth the effective date
of any suspension or revocation accompanied by findings of fact and a copy
thereof shall be forthwith delivered to the licensee.
C.   Any licensee may surrender any license by delivering it to the City Clerk
with written notice of its surrender, but such surrender shall not affect the
licensee's civil or criminal liability for acts committed prior thereto.
D.   No revocation, suspension or surrender of any license shall impair or
affect the obligation of any preexisting lawful contract between the licensee
and any customer.
E.   The City Clerk may reinstate suspended licenses or issue new licenses to a
person whose license or licenses have been revoked if no fact or condition then
exists, which clearly would have justified the City Clerk in refusing
originally to issue such license under this Article.
F.   On application of any person and payment of the cost thereof, the City
Clerk shall furnish under his seal and signature a certificate of good standing
or a certified copy of any license.
(Ord. No. 488, 8-3-93, § 1)
Sec. 11-604. Applications; Contents; Bonds; Statutory agent.
A.   Applications for a pawnshop license shall be under oath and shall state
the full name and place of residence of the applicant. If the applicant is a
partnership, the full name and place of residence of each member thereof shall
be stated. If the applicant is a corporation, the full name and place of
residence of each officer or major stockholder thereof shall be stated. The
application shall give the approximate location from which the business is to
be conducted and shall contain such relevant information as the City Clerk may
require.
B.   Each applicant for a pawnshop license at the time of filing application
shall file with the City Clerk a bond satisfactory to him and in the amount of
Five Thousand ($5,000.00) Dollars for each license with a surety company
qualified to do business in this state. The said bond shall run to the City for
the use of the City and any person or persons who may have cause of action
against the obligor of said bond under the provisions of this Article. Such
bond shall be conditioned that the obligor will comply with the provisions of
this Article and all rules and regulations made by the City Clerk hereunder and
will pay to the City and to any such person or persons any and all amounts of
money that may become due or owing to the City or to such person or person from
said obligor under and by virtue of the provisions of this Article during the
time such bond is in effect.
C.   Each licensee shall maintain on file with the City Clerk written
appointment of a resident of this state as his agent for service of all
judicial or other process or legal notice unless the licensee has appointed an
agent under another statute of this state.
(Ord. No. 488, 8-3-93, § 1)
Sec. 11-605. Examination, investigation, and access to records.
A.   No pawnbroker shall deny access by any peace officer of this City to
records or books relating to its pawn transactions, or examination or
investigation of any pledged goods, or fail to cooperate with any peace officer
under lawful order as set forth in 59 O.S. § 1508, as amended.
B.   Any pawnbroker shall prepare and make available a report in a manner
prescribed by the Chief of Police within three (3) days of any buy transaction
to the police department of the City; provided, merchandise bought on invoice
from a manufacturer or wholesaler with an established place of business is
exempt from this reporting requirement. However, such invoice shall be shown
upon request of any authorized peace officer. The report shall include:
   1.   The name and address of the pawnshop;
   2.   The name, address, race, sex, weight, height, date of birth and either
identification number of the seller as verified by either a state-issued
identification card, driver's license, or federal government-issued
identification card or by readable fingerprint of the right or left index
finger on the back of the pawn or buy transaction copy to be retained for the
pawnbroker's record;
   3.   The buy transaction number;
   4.   The date and time of the transaction;
   5.   The manufacturer of the item;
   6.   A description of the item; and
   7.   The serial number and model number where available and any other
identifying markings; and
   8.   Any other pertinent information prescribed by the Chief of Police from
time to time, which is deemed necessary to fulfill reasonable and legitimate
law enforcement purposes related to any buy transaction by a licensed
pawnbroker.
(Ord. 654, § 1, 10-05-2010)
C.   Items bought, except on invoice from a manufacturer or wholesaler with an
established place of business, shall be held for ten (10) days before being
disposed of or sold.
D.   Any pawnbroker shall prepare and make available a copy or report, in a
manner prescribed by the Chief of Police, within three (3) days of any pawn
transaction to the police department of the City. The copy or report shall
include:
   1.   The name and address of the pawnshop;
   2.   The name, address, race, sex, weight, height, date of birth and either
identification number of the seller or pledgor as verified by either a state-
issued identification card, driver's license, or federal government-issued
identification card or by readable fingerprint of the right or left index
finger on the back of the pawn or buy transaction copy to be retained for the
pawnbroker's record;
   3.   The pawn transaction number;
   4.   The date and time of the transaction;
   5.   The manufacturer of the item;
   6.   A description of the item; and
   7.   The serial number and model number where available and any other
identifying markings.
(Ord. No. 488, 8-3-93, § 1; Ord. 658, § 1, 04-19-2011)
Sec. 11-606. Prohibited practices; Presumptions; Lost or destroyed transaction
agreements.
A.   A pawnbroker shall not:
   1.   Accept a pledge or purchase property from a person, male, or female,
under the age of eighteen (18) years;
   2.   Accept any waiver, in writing or otherwise, of any right or protection
accorded a customer under this Article;
   3.   Fail to exercise reasonable care to protect pledged goods from loss or
damage;
   4.   Fail to return pledged goods to a customer upon payment of the full
amount due the pawnbroker on the pawn transaction, unless a hold order has been
placed on the pledged goods by an authorized peace officer or the pledged goods
are in the custody of law enforcement;
   5.   Make any charge for insurance in connection with a pawn transaction;
   6.   Enter any pawn transaction which has a maturity date more than one (1)
month after the date of the transaction; or
   7.   Accept collateral or buy merchandise from a person unable to supply
certification of identity by photo I.D. by either a state-issued identification
card, driver's license, or federal government-issued identification card or by
readable fingerprint of the right or left index finger on the back of the pawn
or buy transaction copy to be retained for the pawnbroker's record.
B.   Presumption. Except as otherwise provided by this Article, any person
properly identifying himself as the original customer in the pawn transaction
or as the assignee thereof and presenting a pawn transaction agreement to the
pawnbroker shall be presumed to be entitled to redeem the pledged goods
described therein.
C.   Lost or Destroyed Transaction Agreement. If the pawn transaction agreement
is lost, destroyed, or stolen, the customer may so notify the pawnbroker in
writing and receipt of such notice shall invalidate such pawn transaction
agreement, if the pledged goods have not previously been redeemed. Before
delivering the pledged goods or issuing a new pawn transaction agreement, the
pawnbroker may require the customer to make affidavit of the loss, destruction,
or theft of the agreement.
(Ord. No. 488, 8-3-93, § 1)
Sec. 11-607. Penalty.
   Any person who violates any section of this Article shall be guilty of Class
A Offense.
(Ord. No. 488, 8-3-93, § 1)
ARTICLE XXI.
DIVISION A. CHILD CARE CENTERS
Sec. 11-700. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   (1)   Childcare center shall mean any day childcare, nursery, nursery
school, foster home, or preschool or any place, home or institution located in
any residential or commercial district which receives eight (8) or more
children under the age of eighteen (18) years and operates for six or more
hours of the twenty-four (24) hour day, and not of common parentage, for foster
care apart from their natural parents, legal guardians, or custodians. This
does not include facilities for which the primary purpose is medical treatment,
vacation Bible schools whose duration is not greater than two weeks or Mother's
Day Out programs conducted by churches or other religious institutions in which
care for children is conducted within the institutional building.
   (2)   Council shall mean the governing or legislative authority of the City
of The Village.
   (3)   Day camp shall mean any camp with a primary emphasis on outdoor
education and recreation which exercises custodial care over children five (5)
to eighteen (18) years of age, except for older handicapped participants and
which operates only during periods specifically designated as vacation from the
school in which the child is enrolled and which operates for more than twelve
(12) hours per day or a day camp which is accredited by the American Camping
Association or other national standard setting agency or church camp
accreditation programs. This does not include short-term camps, i.e., whose
duration is not greater than two (2) weeks.
   (4)   Day care center shall mean childcare center as defined in this
section.
   (5)   Director shall mean the Medical Director/Chief Executive Officer of
the City-County Health Department of Oklahoma County or his designated
representative.
   (6)   Electrical appliance shall mean any device, which utilizes electricity
to produce light, heat, or power
   (7)   Basement shall mean that portion of a building or structure having
one-half or more of its clear height below the ground level.
   (8)   Entrapping equipment: A component or group of components on play
equipment that forms angles or openings that could trap a child's head by
being: 1) too small to allow the child to withdraw his head easily and; 2)
placed so that the child would be unable to support his weight by means other
than his head or neck.
   (9)   Health officer. Anywhere in this article where the word or words
"health officer" are used it shall be construed to mean the director of the
City-County Health Department of Oklahoma County or his duly designated
representative.
   (10)   Exit shall mean a means of egress, which is specifically designed for
that purpose giving access from one floor to another or to the ground level
outside the building.
   (11)   Fall Zone: An area extending four (4) feet from climbing structures,
five (5) feet from the bottom of a slide, seven (7) feet plus the length of the
chain from a swing's point of suspension, and seven (7) feet from a merry-go-
round and other revolving device.
   (12)   Fire chief shall mean the Chief of City of The Village Fire
Department or his designated representative.
   (13)   Gas appliance shall mean any device, which utilizes gas fuel to
produce light, heat, or power.
   (14)   Licensee shall mean any person licensed to operate a nursery or day
camp as defined in this chapter.
   (15)   Nonprofit Corporation shall mean any corporation organized under the
laws of this State as a nonprofit corporation, and any corporation organized in
another state or nation and authorized to function in this State as a nonprofit
corporation.
   (16)   Nonprofit organization shall mean any nonprofit partnership, company,
corporation, or other business entity, or any nonprofit group or association of
two (2) or more persons united for a common purpose.
   (17)   Nursery shall mean childcare center as defined in this section.
   (18) Operator shall mean an owner or designated person in charge of the
childcare facility or day camp or, if no one person is in charge, any employee
or individual providing care at the childcare or day camp location.
   (19) Part-time childcare program shall mean any nonprofit corporation or
nonprofit organization which receives eight (8) or more children under the age
of eighteen (18) years, and not of common parentage, for foster care apart from
their natural parents, legal guardians, or custodians, when received for
periods not exceeding six (6) hours in a twenty-four-hour calendar day, which
operates no more than twenty (20) hours per week.
(Code 1976, 12-6-3; Code 1987, 11-211; Ord. No. 451, §1, 12-18-90; Ord. No.
463, §§ 1-3, 12-3-91; Ord. No. 484, §1, 1-5-93; Ord. No. 507, §2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 11-701. Scope.
   The provisions of this division shall apply to any type of establishment
outside of the child's own home, but shall not apply to the custody of any
child or children of school age, as set forth in Title 70 of Oklahoma State
Statutes as amended or superseded, in a public or private school organized,
operated, or approved under the laws of this State or to those whose custody is
fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction, or to children related by blood or
marriage within the third degree to the custodial person, or to part time child
care programs, or to churches or religious institutions caring for children
while their parents or legal guardians are attending church services or engaged
in church activities, or to Mother's Day Out programs conducted by churches or
other religious institutions in which care for children is conducted within the
institutional building.
Sec. 11-702. Compliance.
   No person shall operate or maintain a childcare center or day camp subject
to the terms of this division unless such childcare center or day camp conforms
to the requirements, specifications, and provisions of all ordinances. No other
business other than those for which day care licenses are issued shall be
carried on in the childcare center during the time childcare is provided by a
licensee.
Sec. 11-703. Enforcement.
   Except as otherwise provided in this division, the Director shall enforce
the provisions of this article. The Director shall perform all acts and duties
necessary to secure strict enforcement of this article, and for such purpose
the Director shall provide for reasonable inspections. In addition, the
Director shall have the power to enter every building, room, basement, and
cellar or any other such space occupied, or used, for the purposes that fall
within this division as a childcare center or day camp. The Director shall
propose to The Village City Council for adoption in the form of an ordinance
such minimum standards for childcare and day camps as he may deem necessary or
advisable to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public. The
Director shall have the power to enforce all local and state requirements and
regulations.
Sec. 11-704. Inspections.
   The Director shall inspect all childcare or day camps licensed under this
division as often as he shall deem necessary for the adequate supervision
thereof or advisable to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public, and he shall have the right to enter all such places any reasonable
time for the purpose of making such investigation. Acceptance of a license
shall constitute expressed consent to such inspections.
Sec. 11-705. Penalty.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article shall be
guilty of a Class A offense for each such violation. The imposition of a
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue. The application of such penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. Each day a violation exists shall
constitute a separate violation and is subject to all penalties herein.
Sec. 11-706. License Required.
   (a)   No person shall open, operate, or maintain a childcare center or day
camp in the City of The Village without having first obtained a license to do
so from the City Clerk. The license fee for childcare or day care centers shall
be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (b)   It is the responsibility of the childcare center or day camp to
maintain a current city license. The license of the childcare center or day
camp shall be prominently displayed on the premises. The total number of
children in care shall not exceed the licensed capacity.
   (c)   Day care centers already licensed, which run a day camp program must
follow the minimum standards for childcare centers. If a day care and a day
camp share the same facility, the combined number of children attending must
not exceed at any time the number for which the nursery is licensed.
   (d)   Prior to issuance of any childcare or day camp license, the applicant
shall present evidence that the proposed childcare or day camp, as defined by
this section, meets all applicable state and/or City-County Health Department
requirements, all applicable zoning requirements of the city, and any other
applicable regulations established by state law or by city ordinance or code.
(Ord. No. 516, §1, 6-6-95)
   (e)   It is the responsibility of the childcare center or day camp to
maintain a current city license and it shall be posted at all times.
   (f)   Childcare centers or day camps may be located in a single-family
dwelling which is the permanent residence of the operator and shall be operated
in a manner that does not adversely affect other properties and uses in the
area, does not change the character of the residence, and in which the
childcare activity is secondary to the primary use of the dwelling as a
residence.
Sec. 11-707. Application and investigation.
   (a)   Written application to City-County Health Department of Oklahoma
County: An application for a license shall be made in writing to the Director
of the City-County Health Department, on forms prescribed by the Director.
Applications must be filed thirty (30) days before the proposed change of
ownership of an existing center and sixty (60) days before the proposed opening
of a new center or day camp. Upon change of ownership of an existing day care
center or day camp such notice of change must be submitted by proof of deed or
other document reflecting ownership to City-County Health Department of
Oklahoma County within ten (10) working days of such change.
   (b)   Investigation by Director: The application shall be referred to the
Director, who shall cause strict inquiry and investigation to be made regarding
the fitness, character and reputation of the owner and other operators, the
suitability of the accommodations including adequate facilities, cleanliness,
ventilation, heating, lighting, location, and all other matters pertinent to
the health, safety, and general welfare of the public.
   (c)   Changes in designated operator or person in charge: Any change in
information regarding the designated operator or person in charge needs to be
communicated in writing within ten (10) working days of change to the
Institutional Health Division of City-County Health Department of Oklahoma
County
   (d)   Authority of Director to approve or disapprove: The Director shall
have full authority to recommend approval or non-approval over the issuance of
a license based on the findings of his investigation and subject to procedures
set forth. Recommendations will be made to the City Clerk of the City of The
Village.
Sec. 11-708. Fee.
   Prior to the issuance of a childcare center license, the applicant for same
shall pay to the city clerk a fee established by resolution of the city
council. Annual license fees shall be prorated on a monthly basis provided
however, that no prorated license shall be less than ten ($10.00) dollars.
(1994 Code, 11-708; Ord. No. 517, §10, 6-20-95)
Sec. 11-709. Records and reports.
   Every licensee shall keep and maintain such records and make such reports to
the Director as he may reasonably require upon such forms as he may prescribe.
All inspection reports shall be kept on file at the childcare center or day
camp. If inspection reports are posted, only the most recent shall be posted on
the licensed premises. Children's daily attendance records must be kept readily
available for a minimum of 120 days.
Sec. 11-710. Revocation, denial, or non-renewal.
   (a)   If the Director, based upon his findings or by his inspections,
observes violations of any ordinance, standards, or regulations sufficient to
warrant revocation or denial of a childcare or day camp license, written notice
of recommended revocation/non-renewal or denial and the grounds therefore shall
be delivered to the City Clerk.
Sec. 11-711. Physical facilities.
   (a)   Indoor space. There shall be minimum indoor space of thirty-five (35)
square feet of floor area per child exclusive of hallways, bathrooms, kitchen,
and space occupied by furniture not for the children's use. The area of each
room shall determine the number of children to occupy that room. Structures
currently licensed under a thirty (30) square feet per child requirement shall
not be affected by the requirement of the provisions of this subsection unless
the facility is constructed, substantially altered, added to, converted, sold,
or changed in lessee after December 3, 1991.
   (b)   Outdoor play space:
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, childcare centers must provide a
minimum outdoor play space of seventy-five (75) square feet per child for the
total licensed capacity. This applies to centers starting or expanding after
December 3, 1991:
   1.   When nurseries are licensed for twenty-four (24) or more children, they
must provide outdoor play space of seventy-five (75) square feet per child for
at least one-third of licensed capacity of the center or a minimum of one
thousand eight hundred (1,800) square feet, whichever is greater.
   2.   Nurseries licensed for twenty-four (24) or more children, providing
outdoor play space of less than seventy-five (75) square feet per child must:
   3.   Plan a time schedule shown when each group of children will be
outdoors. Weather permitting; every child must have an opportunity for outdoor
play every day.
   4.   Post a copy of the current schedule in the day care center so that
parents and staff are aware of the outdoor play periods.
   2.   The outdoor play space shall:
   (a)   Be safely accessible from indoors.
   (b)   Be free from hazards.
   (c)   Have more than one type of texture. (For example: grass, sand, or dirt
areas, hard surface)
   (d)   Have some shade provided at all times.
   (e)   Be fenced. The fence shall be made with an opaque, ornamental material
not less than forty-eight (48) inches in height; provided however, that no
fence shall be situated in the front yard of any residential lot or past the
existing front building line of any commercial lot. The fence shall:
   1.   Begin at ground level;
   2.   Be eight (8) feet away from the use zone of any equipment;
   3.   Have the points pointing down if chain link.
   4.   Be maintained in a stable, secure upright condition so that children
are kept in, and animals kept out.
   (f)   Have organic loose, inorganic loose or impact absorbing materials
maintained throughout the fall zone of all climbing, swinging, or sliding
apparatus which are located on hard surfaces such as concrete, blacktop or
hard-packed soil. (Grass is considered to be a hard surface);
   1.   Organic loose material such as pine bark nuggets, pine bark mulch,
shredded hardwood bark, and cocoa shell mulch shall be maintained at least ten
(10) inches in depth.
   2.   Inorganic loose materials such as sand, pea gravel, and shredded tires
shall be maintained at a depth of at least ten (10) inches. Loose materials
must be maintained by leveling or raking for hazardous items and litter and
replacement of scattered materials. (Pea gravel should be 00 that has been
sifted to 3/8 inch.)
   (g)   Be free from weeds, tall grass, and untrimmed shrubbery to prevent
vermin and insect infestation. Height of grass or weeds should not exceed six
inches.
   (h)   Be free from standing water. (The surface of the outdoor play space
shall be drained well enough, so that standing water does not prohibit the use
of the play area on a daily basis.)
   (i)   The equipment should be free of entrapment areas. (The center must
ensure that no equipment has openings or angles that could entrap any part of a
child's body or a child's head or clothing.
   (j)   Shall not have any climbing equipment or slides over seven (7) feet
high.
   (k)   Have no visual barriers on the playground. Teachers must be able to
see all children at all times.
   (l)   Have more than one type of apparatus (i.e.: climbing, swinging, and
sliding).
   3.   Outdoor Equipment Design and Placement:
   a.   The placement of equipment must be planned to avoid the danger of
collision and accidents.
   b.   No equipment shall be placed in the fall zone of another piece of
equipment. (Equipment shall be placed eight (8) feet apart to provide a safe
fall zone.)
   c.   Outdoor play equipment must be securely anchored unless portable by
design.
   d.   All swing seats must be constructed of durable, lightweight, relatively
pliable material, such as rubber, plastic, or nylon webbing.
   1.   There should be a minimum of eighteen (18) inches between swings.
   e.   The center must ensure that no pinch, crush, or shear points are on
equipment (such as axle assemblies on rotating devices).
   f.   Children must not have access to toxic substances either indoor or
outdoor.
   g.   Outdoor play equipment shall be maintained in good repair and a safe
and sanitary condition.
   (c)   Toilets. Bathroom facilities shall be suitable, adequate, located in
the same building where the children's care is provided and easily available to
the children. There shall be a ratio of one toilet and one sink to fifteen (15)
children. Urinals are acceptable but may not be counted as meeting the ratio of
toilets. Potty chairs may supplement toilets for emergency purposes. These must
be emptied and sanitized immediately after each use. Bathrooms must contain
operable flushing toilets and sinks in good repair. Any room where diapered
children are kept must have a diaper-changing table or surface. Hot and cold
running water must be either from a sink adjacent to the changing table or
surface or a bathroom that opens directly into the room. Children must be in
view at all times. All centers opening after December 3, 1991, must provide an
operable sink with hot and cold running water and a changing table/surface in
all rooms that care for children in diapers.
   (d)   Lavatories. Hand washing facilities shall be provided at a ratio of
not less than one lavatory to each required toilet. Lavatories shall have hot
and cold or tempered running water. Hot water temperature shall be maintained
between 100 degrees Fahrenheit and 120 degrees Fahrenheit. If the temperature
exceeds one hundred twenty (120) degrees Fahrenheit, a tempered valve must be
used; when a tempered valve is used, the temperature should not be set above
one hundred five (105) degrees Fahrenheit. There shall be soap and disposable
paper towels dispensed from a paper towel dispenser, not cloth towels, and
waste containers within easy access of children. A separate hand wash sink
shall be provided in the food preparation area and adequately supplied with
soap and sanitary towels or hand drying device. Those centers which were
originally designed as a family residence and having the licensed capacity of
fifteen (15) or less children shall be deemed in compliance if hand washing
facilities are located on the same floor or in a bathroom on the same floor.
   (e)   Individual supplies, water. Clean, individual washcloths, disposable
towels and drinking cups shall be provided. The water supply must meet
standards established by the State Department of Health.
   (f)   Rest and beds. Arrangements for rest shall be provided. There shall be
an individual cot or bed with individual bedding for each child who remains
more than five (5) consecutive hours in the childcare center. Cots shall be
covered and be maintained and stored in a sanitary condition at all times. Cots
and/or beds shall be arranged in an alternating head-foot position and spaced
at least two (2) feet apart. Cribs and cots shall be labeled by name or number,
so each child receives the same cot. Cots shall be kept in good repair and be
replaced or recovered as needed. Extra sheets and blankets shall be available
and maintained in good repair.
   (g)   Heating facilities. Heating facilities shall present no hazard to the
health and safety of the children. Appropriate guards shall be placed around
radiators and floor furnaces. Unguarded open-faced heaters and fires in
fireplaces are not permitted. Any gas-heating appliance shall have a closed
combustion chamber and shall be vented. The childcare center shall also comply
with the City of The Village fire ordinances and regulations.
   (h)   Adequate quarters required. All quarters occupied by children shall be
adequately heated, lighted, and ventilated.
   (i)   Heating standards. The heating plant shall be adequate to maintain
temperature of seventy-two (72) degrees Fahrenheit twenty-four (24) inches from
the floor in severe weather in all rooms used for children. An adequate
thermometer shall be provided for measuring room temperatures. Air-conditioned
facilities shall maintain a maximum temperature of eighty (80) degrees
Fahrenheit. Rooms shall be relatively free from moisture condensation.
   (j)   Sickroom. There shall be a room or space available in which children
who become ill in the childcare center may be cared for until a parent or
guardian arrives. This space may be used by others when not in use by sick
children.
   (k)   Telephone. There shall be a telephone located within each licensed
childcare center. Pay telephones are not acceptable. A list of emergency
numbers shall be posted by the telephone. These are the Fire Department, Police
Department, all emergency services, and the name and address of a physician,
hospital and/or clinic, poison control, and name, address, and phone number of
the childcare center.
   (l)   Dangerous substances. Medicines, cleaning solvents, poisons, firearms,
sharp pointed scissors and other potentially dangerous substances and
instruments shall be kept in areas inaccessible to the children. Poisonous or
toxic material shall not be stored with or above food, food equipment,
utensils, or single service articles, except that this requirement does not
prohibit the convenient availability of detergents or sanitizers at dishwashing
stations, or laundry facilities. Do not store medicines above or next to food.
In the refrigerator store on the lowest shelf or in a container that would
prevent possible contamination of food.
   (m)   Kitchen. The kitchen shall be a separate area for the preparation of
food and the cleaning and sanitizing of dishes and utensils and arranged in
such a way to discourage easy access to children. Children shall not be allowed
there while food is being prepared except as part of a planned, supervised
learning experience. The kitchen shall be maintained reasonably free of
moisture condensation and shall be easily cleaned and provided with hot and
cold running water. Standards and practices pertaining to food preparation,
handling and service shall comply with regulations established by the Oklahoma
State Department of Health and any applicable local codes except for family day
care homes. The owner, director or primary person assigned to do the cooking is
required to obtain and maintain a current Food Service Operators Certificate.
One of the following methods of treatment of the eating and drinking utensils
shall be utilized:
   (1)    A three-compartment sink permanently installed and connected to a
common drain. Utensils are washed in the first compartment, rinsed in plain
water in the second, and immersed in the sanitizing medium in the third
compartment and air-dried. Do not wipe the utensils after sanitization.
   (2)    A commercial type dishwasher equipped with a built-in heating element
capable of heating water in rinse cycle to one hundred eighty (180) degrees
Fahrenheit without turning up the thermostat in the regular hot water tank past
one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees Fahrenheit; provided that this section is
applicable to existing facilities having operable domestic or commercial
dishwashers which adequately sanitize by heat or chemical. Adequacy of the
sanitizing cycle will be determined by the generally accepted test methods or
thermometers must be provided to ensure compliance with the food service code.
   (n)   Use of paper or plastic throwaway eating and drinking utensils. No
washing or reuse of single service bowls, plates, spoons, forks, or cups is
permitted. All single service items must be disposed of immediately after use.
All cooking utensils, serving spoons, etc. must still be washed and sanitized
in accordance with Section 11-311 (m) Kitchen, numbers (1) or (2).
   (o)   Drinking water. Drinking water shall be provided through sanitary
drinking fountains or individual cups. Individual cups must be single service
disposable cups or reusable cups sanitized after each use. The use of a common
drinking cup is prohibited.
   (p)   Paper cups and towels. Sanitary dispensing and approved disposal units
shall be provided for cups (paper) and towels.
   (q)   Plumbing. No plumbing fixture or other device, which provides a
connection between a drinking water supply and a drainage, soil waste or sewer
pipe so as to make possible the backflow of sewage or wastewater into water
supply system, shall be installed or be permitted to exist. Water that has been
used for cooking or for any other purpose shall not be returned to the system.
All piping and fixtures shall be kept clean and in good repair. All plumbing
shall comply with city plumbing ordinances and codes. 
   (r)   Ventilation. Kitchen, bathrooms, and service rooms shall be so located
and ventilated by window or mechanical means through a vent leading directly to
the outside as to prevent offensive odors from entering other rooms in the
building. In any facility not equipped with central heat and central air
conditioning of sufficient rated capacity to provide comfort in all areas, then
the rooms in which children eat, sleep or play shall have outside windows which
are easily opened and closed (without resorting to props) to provide proper
cross ventilation. If windows or doors are to be opened, they must be screened.
   (s)   Water supply. The water supply shall be obtained from a source, which
is properly located, constructed, and operated to protect it from contamination
and pollution. Water shall meet current standards set up by the State
Department of Health as to bacteriological, chemical, and physical tests for
purity.
   (t)   Sewage. Sewage shall be discharged into The City sewage system where
such a system is available; otherwise, the sewage shall be collected, treated,
and disposed of in an independent sewage system, which complies, with the
requirements of the State Department of Health.
   (u)   Garbage and refuse. All garbage and refuse shall be collected, stored,
and disposed of in a manner that will not create a nuisance, provide a breeding
place for flies or a harbor for rats. All containers for garbage and refuse
shall be watertight, have tight-fitting covers and be fly and rodent proof.
Garbage containers shall be kept clean.
   (v)   Equipment. The equipment of nursery shall be of such size and type
that is appropriate to the child's physical needs. An adequate number of
tables, chairs, and highchairs shall be provided for children at mealtime and
for table-play activity. Highchairs must be covered with a waterproof,
impermeable, washable material and maintained in good repair. There shall be
equipment to keep each child's clothing separate from that of other children.
Indoor and outdoor play equipment shall be:
   1.   Maintained in a safe and sanitary condition;
   2.   Provided in quantities proportionate to the maximum number of children
for which the center is licensed.
   3.   Provided for the children's use on a regular basis.
   (w)   Safety and sanitation. The Child Care Center shall:
   (1)   Maintain a structurally sound interior and exterior in good repair.
Maintain walls and ceilings free from holes, peeling paper and paint;
   (2)   Maintain floors free of grossly broken and/or missing tile, torn
carpet, or holes;
   (3)   Maintain windows and doors free of broken glass and/or other hazards;
   (4)   Maintain window and door screens to minimize entry of insects;
   (5)   Maintain screens on windows and doors when open for ventilation
purposes;
   (6)   Provide self-closing apparatus on all screen doors and storm doors;
   (7)   Be clean and sanitary at all times and free of offensive odors:
   a.   Clean-up spills and soil immediately;
   b.   Sweep and/or mop floors daily;
   c.   Vacuum carpets and do spot cleaning as needed;
   d.   Wet scrub carpet when visibly soiled;
   e.   Spot clean and/or scrub walls, ceilings, and floor when visibly soiled.
   (8)   Take effective measures to minimize the entry, presence, and
propagation of rodents, flies, cockroaches, or other vermin. The premises shall
be maintained in a condition that prevents the harborage or feeding of vermin.
Openings to the outside shall be effectively protected against the entrance of
rodents.
Outside openings shall be protected against the entrance of insects by tight-
fitting, self-closing doors, closed windows, screening, controlled air
currents, or other means. Screen doors shall be self-closing, and screens for
windows, doors, skylights, transoms, intake and exhaust air ducts, and other
openings to the outside shall be tight fitting and free of breaks. Screening
material shall not be less than 16 mesh to the inch.
   (9)   Be free of hazards.
   (10)   Prohibit smoking within the center.
   (11)   Maintain lighting in all areas used by children at not less than
twenty (20) foot candles at a height of thirty (30) inches except at naptime
when light levels must allow for children to be observed. Children shall be
continuously observed during naptime.
Sec. 11-712. Care of children.
   (a)   Cribs play pens. Each infant and toddler as defined in Section 11-318,
Subsections (d) (1) and (d) (2) of this code shall be provided with a separate
crib, cot and/or playpen. The mattresses and playpen pads shall be a minimum of
two inches (2") thick and covered with a waterproof, impermeable, washable
material and maintained in good condition. Such covering shall be childproof
and must be safe and easily sanitized.
   (b)   Space requirements. Cots, cribs and/or playpens must be at least two
(2) feet apart on all sides.
   (c)   Crib sheets. Crib sheets shall be changed daily and whenever soiled.
   (d)   Individual supplies. There shall be provisions made for an adequate
supply of individual diapers, clothing, powder, oil, etc.
   (e)   Formula and food.
   (1)   The day care center is responsible for feeding children a diet
appropriate to their individual needs.
   (2)   Infants under 6 months of age shall be fed the infant formula and diet
prescribed by the child's physician or authorized by the child's parent.
Parents may be requested to provide infant formula and baby foods.
   (3)   Infants above the age of 6 months shall be offered a diet consisting
of milk or formula, cereal, fruits, vegetables, and meats in sufficient amounts
to meet their daily food needs, unless otherwise recommended by the child's
doctor.
   (4)   When an infant or toddler has a special dietary need resulting from an
allergy or family religious restrictions, parents can be requested to
supplement the center's food service.
   (5)   When infants or toddlers show evidence of wanting to feed themselves,
they shall be allowed to do so.
   (6)   Infants up to the age of 6 months shall be held while being bottle-
fed. Infants of more than 6 months shall be held while bottle-fed until they
are able to hold their own bottle securely. Bottles shall not be propped by any
means at any time.
   (7)   Infants and toddlers no longer being held for feeding shall have a
definite place for eating. They may sit in infant seats, highchairs with a
safety strap or in low chairs at low tables.
   (8)   Staff members shall wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water
before feeding an infant.
   (9)   Bottles and baby food provided by parents must be labeled with the
child's name.
   (f.)   Diapers. There shall be closed containers for dirty diapers and
clothing. Shelves shall be maintained at adult height for storage of equipment
and supplies. Soiled or wet diapers shall be placed in a moisture proof bag or
stored in a tightly closed container, which is cleaned daily. Staff members
shall wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water after each diaper change.
   (g.)   Hygiene. Any person preparing food in a day care center may not work
in a class where diapers are changed. Attendants shall wash hands before and
after handling the infant and after each diaper change. Diapers shall be
changed promptly, and buttocks shall be thoroughly cleaned and dried. The
child's buttocks must be washed with a cloth that is not used for any other
purpose and these cloths placed in a closed container. Only freshly laundered
or disposable diapers shall be put on the child. A changing table with a clean
and moisture proof surface shall be used when diapers are changed. The surface
must be sanitized after each diaper change with a sanitizing solution. Only
diaper changing items may be allowed on changing surface. No other items (i.e.,
food, toys, etc.) are to be present on the changing surface at any time.
   (h.)   Play. Infants and toddlers shall have opportunity throughout the day
for play outside the crib or play pen for creeping and crawling, also
opportunity for large muscle exercise.
   (i.)   Treatment. Each child shall be considered as an individual and
provided patient, understanding, consistent and loving guidance.
   (j.)   Discipline. Constructive methods of guidance and discipline shall be
utilized. Loud, profane, or abusive language shall not be used. Corporal
punishment shall not be used. Corporal punishment is infliction of physical
pain. Shaming, frightening, and humiliating methods shall not be used.
Punishment shall not be associated with rest, toilet training, or loss of food.
Any person convicted of assault and battery, beating, physical violence, or
otherwise abusing children shall be restricted from the premises of a childcare
center.
Sec. 11-713. Health Program.
(a.)   Immunizations. Childcare center operators shall require parents or
guardians to submit to the day care center a statement from a duly licensed
physician indicating the extent of their child's immunizations prior to or upon
entry to the childcare center. The required immunizations for children in day
care are set out by Oklahoma's Day Care Immunization Law as it now exists or
may hereafter be amended; which law is incorporated herein by reference. The
recommended schedule for children beginning immunizations is as follows:
AGE            VACCINES
2 Months         TP, Oral Polio, and HIB
4 Months         TP, Oral Polio, and HIB
6 Months         DTP and HIB
15 Months         Measles, Mumps & Rubella
15 to 18 Months      DTP and Oral Polio
18 Months to 4 Years   HIB
4 to 6 Years   TP, Oral Polio, and MMR
   If immunizations have not been completed, they must be, and evidence so
presented. However, any minor child, through his parent or guardian, may submit
to the childcare center operator who shall forward to the Director a
certificate from a licensed physician stating that the physical condition of
the child is such that immunization would endanger the life or health of the
child, or a written statement by the parent or guardian objecting to such
immunizations. In such case, said child shall be exempt from the immunization
requirement.
   (b)   Sick children. Each child must be carefully observed by staff members
for symptoms of illness or abuse. Ill children are not to be accepted for care
in a childcare center unless the parents present a statement from their
attending physician that the child is not suffering from an infectious,
contagious, or communicable disease. Any child showing symptoms of illness
should be separated from the group and parents or the child's physician shall
be notified. A child showing evidence of abuse shall be reported to the
appropriate legal authority. Operators must notify Oklahoma City-County Health
Department of Oklahoma County when one case of hepatitis, meningitis, Shigella,
Giardiasis, Salmonella, measles, rubeola, whooping cough, tuberculosis, or any
Haemophilus influenza invasive disease is identified in any person associated
with the center and when clustering or grouping of any other illness or disease
occurs.
   (c)   Emergency treatment. A plan for emergency treatment for severe injury
or acute illness shall be written and prominently displayed in the childcare
center. This written notice shall state the name of the physician and/or
clinic, including address and telephone number, the childcare director will
contact.
   (d)   Medication, requirements. No medication shall be administered by the
operator or his employees except under the following conditions:
   (1)   The parent or guardian of the child requesting that prescription
medication be administered as directed by the prescription label on the
container must make such a request in writing. Where such prescription
medication is to be given, the parent or guardian must present a statement from
the attending physician to the effect that the child is not suffering from an
infectious, contagious, or communicable disease. Such written requests from the
parent or guardian and a statement from the attending physician must be kept on
file for a period of not less than six (6) months following the date of the
incident.
   (2)   The statement from the attending physician relative to the child's
ability to transmit disease to others shall identify the child by name, include
a statement relative to communicability of the condition, and be dated.
   (3)   The operator and his employees are not to administer medications such
as aspirin, proprietary or patient medicine, or other home remedies to children
cared for in the childcare center unless requested to do so by the parent or
guardian. For the protection of the operator of the childcare center, it is
required that such requests be in writing with the signature of the parent or
guardian.
   (4)   All medication provided must be clearly labeled with the child's full
name, date, and directions for the proper amount (dose) and frequency for
administration. All medications shall be stored in its original container or
fully labeled with the Rx label and shall be kept in a safe place and out of
reach of children. In order to avoid duplication, the responsibility of giving
and properly documenting each child's medication shall be assigned to one
person on duty. The staff person administering medications should initial each
dose and retain this record for future reference.
   (e)   First-aid kit. A first-aid kit shall be available at all times. The
minimum required contents are as follows:
   (1)   Antibacterial skin cleaner. (example: Hydrogen peroxide)
   (2)   Band-Aids, non-medicated.
   (3)   Sterile non-stick gauze pads, three (3) inches by three (3) inches,
individually packaged.
   (4)   Two sizes of gauze bandages, one-inch, two-inch or three-inch rolls.
   (5)   Cotton balls, for cleansing purposes.
   (6)   Adhesive tape.
   (7)   Blunt scissors.
   (8)   Bottle of liquid soap.
   a.   Recommends:
   (1)   Digital thermometer (non-mercury type) with individual disposable
covers.
   (2)   Syrup of Ipecac to be used only after recommendation of Poison Control
Center or physician.
   (f)   Staff education. It is recommended that an ongoing educational program
be provided for new staff members concerning early signs and symptoms of
illness and first-aid treatment.
Sec. 11-714. Food and nutrition.
(a)   Meals. Children remaining in the nursery for longer than a four-hour
period shall be served a balanced meal, which shall provide at least one-third
of the child's total daily nutritive requirement as established, by the
National Research Council, Food and Nutrition Board of the National Academy of
Science.
(1)   The childcare center is responsible for providing the food for all
children in care appropriate to their individual needs. Exception: When infants
are in care or a child has a special dietary need, parents can be requested to
supplement the center's food service.
(2)   Seconds shall be available for children.
(b)   Menus. Menus shall be posted one week in advance so that parents can be
made aware of food being provided their children. A duplicate menu shall be
posted in the kitchen for the cook's use. Such menus shall be closely followed
although reasonable substitutions are permissible, however, substitutions shall
be noted.
(c)   Snacks. Snacks shall be provided both mid-morning and mid-afternoon when
the interval between regular meals is four (4) hours or longer. Many children
require small quantities of food between meals in order to prevent fatigue.
Sec. 11-715. Transportation.
(a.)   License and inspection. Where transportation is furnished by the
childcare center, the driver of the vehicle in which children are transported
shall possess the appropriate license to operate a motor vehicle in the State
of Oklahoma. Assurance shall be made that the vehicle used is inspected in
accordance with the State law. The vehicle used for transportation shall be
covered by passenger medical and liability insurance and comply with all
current Oklahoma laws relating to child passenger restraint systems and seat
belts.
   (b)   Safe conduct. There must be provided safe conduct to and from all cars
and safe off-street loading space so that the children are protected from
backing cars, from being between cars, and from all traffic hazards.
   (c)   Individual seating. Children in any vehicle shall be provided an
individual seating place.
   (d)   Unattended children. Vehicles containing children shall never be left
unattended.
   (e)   Door locking. Each vehicle operated by a center for transportation of
children shall have doors locked. The driver shall be responsible for keeping
the doors locked whenever the vehicle is moving.
   (f)   Staff ratio. The staff ratio in the vehicle shall be the same as in
the childcare center.
   (g)   Driver, how counted. When children up to, but not including age four
(4), are transported in any vehicle, the driver shall not be counted as a staff
member.
   (h)   Open vehicles prohibited. Open vehicles, pickup beds, etc., shall not
be considered as proper transportation.
   (i)   Children shall not be transported in vehicles with missing or
dangerous window glass.
   (j)   The driver shall be provided with a clipboard or notebook, which lists
the name, address, and telephone number of the day care center as well as names
of children being transported with an alternate telephone number of designated
adults who could contact the parents.
Sec. 11-716. Construction and fire safety.
   (a)   Standards. New construction, additions to or any major alterations to
an existing structure, the selling or leasing of a structure existing or the
conversion of a building existing as of December 3, 1991, shall conform to this
code and the following standards:
   (1)   Current Building Codes of the City of The Village.
   (2)   Current State and City of The Village Fire Codes.
   (3)   The use of a mobile home for a childcare center is prohibited.
   (b)   Fire protection. Childcare facilities shall accomplish a standard of
fire safety, which will meet the approval of the authority having jurisdiction.
   (c)   Heating. The following heating requirements shall be met:
   (1)   All gas heating and cooking equipment shall be connected to gas
service line with rigid pipe. (Exception: Cooking ranges may be connected to
service line with listed flexible tubing not to exceed six (6) feet in length.
Gas fed hot water heaters may be connected with listed tubing not to exceed
eighteen (18) inches in length.
   (2)   With the exception of kitchen cooking ranges, all gas fed appliances
shall be equipped with pilot lights and an automatic control valve to cut off
the gas supply in case of fault.
   (3)   A quarter turn shut-off valve, located between the union and the
source of supply, shall be provided for each gas fed appliance.
   (4)   Each gas fed appliance shall be vented vertically to the exterior to a
point twenty-four (24) inches above the roofline or any other structure within
a fifteen-foot radius. Such vent shall be a Class "B" vent with proper
clearance and shall be provided a rain cap.
   (5)   Every central gas-heating unit and gas fed hot water heater shall be
enclosed in rooms or closets having a fire resistance rating of one hour with
exterior air provided for combustion. These enclosures shall not be used as
habitable space.
   (6)   Use of open-face heaters is prohibited. Use of any unvented space
heater is prohibited.
   (7)   A pressure relief valve shall be installed on all new and existing hot
water tanks.
   (8)   Vents and burner adjustments shall be checked annually by a competent
plumber or local gas supplier. A record of the annual check shall be kept by
the operator of the childcare center.
   (d)   Electrical. The following electrical requirements shall be met:
   (1)   Use of extension cords or temporary wiring is prohibited.
   (2)   Appliance cords are not to be spliced, knotted, stapled, run over
nails or piping, run through concealed space, or run from one room to another.
   (3)   An electric outlet shall be provided for each appliance.
   (4)   Electric outlet covers, where within reach of children, must have
safety covers. Fuse box, switch and outlet covers shall be intact.
   (5)   Major electrical appliances shall be bonded and properly grounded.
   (6)   Circuits shall be properly fused.
   (7)   All electrical outlets in new construction shall be located four (4)
feet above the floor.
   (e)   Exterior. The burning of trash on the premises is not permitted.
Sec. 11-717. Administration.
   (a)   Floor plan. A floor plan of the building shall be exhibited on each
floor of the building showing prime and alternate evacuation routes from each
area of the building.
   (b)   Fire drills. A minimum of twelve (12) fire drills shall be held in
each one-year period. A minimum of three (3) fire drills shall be held in each
quarter year period. All employees and children shall participate in each
drill; infants and toddlers may be exempted during periods when climate
conditions may endanger their health. The operator shall maintain an accurate
record of required drills.
   (c)   Minimum staff. An adult staff member shall be present, both indoors
and outdoors, at all times with each group of children. Children shall never be
left unattended.
   (d)   Attendance records. Current attendance records must be kept daily for
each child. The daily attendance records must be kept a minimum of 120 days and
be available at the childcare center for inspection as required by the
Director.
Sec. 11-718. Personnel.
   (a)   Fire safety. Each staff member shall be familiar with the location and
use of portable fire extinguishers. (It is suggested each staff member could
actually be trained in the use of fire extinguishers by being allowed to
extinguish practice fires supervised by the servicing agency of the Fire
Department at the time of annual extinguisher service.)
   (b)   Evacuation. Each staff member shall be familiar with evacuation
procedures and routes.
   (c)   Person in charge. Should the owner, operator and/or manager of a
Center need to be away, a staff member shall be appointed charge person in
their absence to take responsibility for operation of the center.
   (d)   Number of staff required. There must be an overall total number of
staff members to correspond with the chronological age of the children present.
Recognizing that all children do not develop at the same rate, the following
guide for staff ratio need not necessarily be the guide for exact grouping of
children; however, when two or more different age groups are combined, you must
follow the staff ratio for the youngest age group.
   (1)   Infants in cribs, (0 through 9 months of age) at least one staff
member to four (4) children.
   (2)   Toddlers (10 months up to but not including age two (2) years), at
least one staff member to six (6) children.
   (3)   Two (2) years up to but not including age three (3), at least one
staff member to eight (8) children.
   (4)   Three (3) years up to but not including age four (4), at least one
staff member to twelve (12) children.
   (5)   Four (4) years up to but not including age six (6), at least one staff
member to fifteen (15) children.
   (6)   Six (6) years and over, at least one staff member to twenty (20)
children.
   (7)   When the total number of children present in the center is 11 or less
and the children of all ages are mixed together, the following requirement for
grouping and staff ratio will be at least one staff member to eight (8)
children with no more than two of these eight (8) being under two (2) years of
age, or that require special care.
   (8)   During naptime, staff ratio may be reduced to provide an opportunity
for in-service training in the facility.
To ensure proper supervision of children, a staff person must remain with each
group and all children must be resting quietly. Appropriate staff ratio must be
present in the center at all times.
   (9)   Swimming: The following guide for grouping and staff ratio shall be
used to determine compliance with requirements while swimming:
   (a)   Under 2 years - 1 staff/1 child
   (b)   2 Years Old - l staff/4 children
   (c)   3 Years Old - l staff/6 children
   (d)   4-5 Years Old - l staff/7 children
   (e)   6 Years Old and Over - 1 staff/10 children
When two or more ages are grouped together, staff ratio for the youngest child
shall apply.
   (10)   Children shall never be left unattended. An adult staff member shall
be present indoors and outdoors at all times with each group of children.
DIVISION B. MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR DAY CAMPS
Secs. 11-719--11-749 Reserved.
Sec. 11-750. Scope and compliance.
   (a)   The provisions of this division shall apply to all day camps located
within the corporation limits of the City. All applicants for a license under
this division shall comply with the provisions of this division and no license
shall be issued, continued, or reissued unless such compliance is shown.
   (b)   Day camps shall be subject to on-site, unannounced inspections by the
Director of the City-County Health Department of Oklahoma County or his
designate.
Sec. 11-751. Site standards.
   The site for a day camp shall meet the flowing requirements:
   (1)   Arrangements shall be made annually with fire and law enforcement
officials for the protection of the camp. A current approved fire report will
be available if requested by the City-County Health Department Oklahoma County
where there are permanent structures used. Current local fire codes must be
complied with.
   (2)   Shelter from inclement weather must be available for all persons in
camp.
   (3)   Shade must be provided.
   (4)   The following camp site conditions must be observed:
   a.   Risks from hazards such as cliffs, pits, poisonous plants and animals,
dead trees, abandoned buildings and low wires and cables must be eliminated or
controlled.
   b.   Grounds must be free of broken glass, nails, and other dangerous
objects.
   c.   Site must provide privacy and protection from intrusion.
   d.   The address and phone number of the day camp and the following
emergency numbers must be displayed at all phones: police, fire, 911 emergency
service, poison control and hospital.
Sec. 11-752. Administrative standards.
   A day camp shall develop administrative procedures, which include the
following:
   1.   On-site records for each camper and staff member which include:
   a.   Full name: age (for all persons under the age of eighteen (18) and the
date of birth; home address and telephone number; school grade (where
applicable; name, address, signature and work and home telephone number of
adult responsible for each person under the age of eighteen (18).
   b.   On-Site records for each person under the age of eighteen (18), which
show the telephone number(s) of persons in addition to parent or guardian to
contact in case of emergency during the individual's stay at camp.
   c.   Name and telephone number of each person's physician or health care
facility.
   2.   Written procedures for:
   a.   Release of campers who are minors to persons other than legal parent or
guardian.
   b.   Verification of absentees. Daily attendance records must be available
for City-County Health Department of Oklahoma County inspectors upon request.
   c.   Use and release of all personal information.
   3.   The camp shall have the following insurance coverage, or a written
release from parent/staff:
   a.   Workers' compensation for eligible staff.
   b.   Accident coverage for any staff member not covered under workers
compensation (carried by the camp or the camp has written evidence that the
staff member has such insurance) or written release signed by the staff member.
Sec. 11-753. Safety standards.
   A day camp shall have written policies and procedures for the protection of
campers and staff. Such procedures shall include the following requirements:
   (1)   All firearms, ammunition, and other weapons to be stored in locked
cabinets, which are under the direct supervision of the day camp director and
his designee.
   (2)   Gasoline, kerosene, explosives, and flammable materials must be:
   a.   Stored in covered, safe containers that are plainly labeled as to
contents.
   b.   Handled only by persons trained or experienced in their safe use.
   (3)   Hand and power tools must be:
   a.   Equipped with the necessary safety devices, used according to
manufacturer's instructions, and maintained in good repair.
   b.   Used only by those trained and experienced in the safe operation of
such tools.
   (4.)   All staff must be provided with written disaster procedures, which
they have reviewed prior to exercising responsibility over camp children or
participants.
   (5.)   There must be written search and rescue procedures for persons lost,
missing or runaway which staff have reviewed and rehearsed prior to exercising
responsibility over camp children or participants.
   (6.)   In case of personal emergency, transportation for medical services
must be available at all times provided by either the camp or by community
emergency services with which prior arrangements have been made in writing.
Sec. 11-754. Transportation standards.
   All motorized vehicles used in camp operation shall meet the following
standards:
   (1)   All vehicles must have a current state license and inspection sticker.
   (2)   Each vehicle used for transporting campers and staff must be equipped
with the following:
   a.   Stocked first aid kit, which meets the requirements for such as
specified in Child Care Section of this division.
   b.   A flashlight.
   c.   Emergency equipment (inflated spare tire, jack, lug wrench of
appropriate size for vehicle) or citizen band radio or vehicle phone to summon
emergency assistance.
   d.   All drivers or operators of motor vehicles must have a valid Oklahoma
driver's license and meet current state law requirements concerning the
transportation of children.
Sec. 11-755. Personnel standards.
   (a)   Day camps shall operate in accordance with the following minimum
personnel standards. The on-site camp director shall be at least twenty-one
(21) years of age.
   (1)   The minimum ratio of staff to campers for all periods of day camp
operation shall be:
CAMPER'S AGE   STAFF   DAY CAMPERS
5 and 6 Years   1      10
7-18 Years      1      12
   (b)   Staff must be at least eighteen (18) years of age. Volunteer staff
will be counted as part of the staff only if they are at least eighteen (18)
years of age. Staff must be in attendance at all times with each group of
children.
   (c)   The camp director shall provide at least six (6) hours of staff
training at the day camp site.
Sec. 11-756. Health care standards.
   (a)   A day camp shall have a written health care plan in effect which is
reviewed annually and specifies general procedures and responsibilities of all
staff for the following areas: first aid, emergency medical care, including
emergency transportation; care by physician or hospital; daily medical care;
routine health care for campers or staff; supervision of camp health and
sanitation practices; assessment of food services, if provided; provision of
medical supplies and equipment.
   (b)   The health care plan must be reviewed annually by a medical doctor
licensed to practice in the State of Oklahoma who will certify that he has read
the plan and finds it to be adequate to the needs of the camp.
   (c)   In order to direct, oversee and implement health care, there must be a
Camp Health Supervisor available who is a licensed medical doctor or registered
nurse and is on site or available by phone when campers are present.
   (d)   In order to provide first aid to children or participants there must
be staff with the following qualifications as well as proof of certification on
duty at all times when campers are present:
   (1)   Licensed medical doctor, registered nurse, emergency medical
technician, paramedic or person certified in American Red Cross standard first
aid or the equivalent.
   (2)   A person certified in CPR from the American Red Cross, American Heart
Association, or the equivalent.
   (e)   All staff who are responsible for providing health care must be:
   (1)   Trained to provide care according to specific written procedures; and
   (2)   Trained to use supplies and equipment with which they are furnished.
Sec. 11-757. Routine health care and medical treatment.
   (a)   The day camp shall maintain health histories for all campers and
staff. Such histories shall meet the recommendations of the City-County Health
Department of Oklahoma County and meet the following requirements:
   (1)   A health record for each camper must be submitted to the camp director
upon admittance. Such record shall include:
   a.   A health history. Such history must be signed by parent or guardian if
camper is a minor.
   b.   A record of past medical treatment, allergies, and age-appropriate
immunizations.
   c.   Description of any health conditions requiring special consideration.
   d.   Signed permission of the parent or guardian for the day camp to seek
necessary emergency treatment.
In the event a parent or guardian wishes to refuse medical treatment due to
religious or other beliefs, a signed statement to that effect must be provided.
   (2)   A health record for each staff member must be submitted to the camp
director before the start of the day camp session. In addition, staff employed
in excess of two (2) weeks must have:
   a.   Proof of an annual tuberculosis skin test.
   b.   Positive skin test must be followed with a chest x-ray. Results of the
x-ray must be kept on file at the camp and accessible to City-County Health
Department of Oklahoma County. No further PPD (skin test) is required once
proof of positive is on file. The chest x-ray result on file is acceptable as
long as the staff has no symptoms.
   (b)   The following medical records maintained for use during camp must be
retained:
   (1)   A daily medical log kept in a bound book which has page numbers and
lined pages and in which the following information is recorded in ink with no
lines skipped:
   a.   Date, time, and name of person injured or ill.
   b.   General description of injury or illness.
   c.   Description of any treatment administered.
   d.   Initials of person evaluating and treating.
   (2)   An accident report for all accidents resulting in injury requiring
professional medical treatment.
   (c)   There must be written procedures for providing routine health care,
first aid and emergency medical care away from the health care facility, which
include:
   (1)   Policies for recording information and appending such information as
soon as possible to the daily medical log.
   (2)   Completion of an accident report form for injuries requiring
professional medical treatment.
   (d)   All drugs must be:
   (1)   Stored under lock or in the controlled possession of the person
responsible for administering them.
   (2)   Dispensed only under the specific direction of a Licensed Physician.
   (3)   Dispensed only upon receipt of signed permission slip by parent or
legal guardian of child or participant which allows camp personnel to
administer medications.
   (4)   Stored in original container (over the counter) or fully labeled with
the pharmacy Rx label.
   (5)   Labeled with the child's name, date and directions for proper doses
and time to be administered. In order to avoid duplication, the responsibility
of giving and properly documenting each child's medication shall be assigned to
one person on duty. The staff person administering medication should initial
each dose and retain this record.
   (e)   The day camp shall have an infirmary or health care shelter available
to handle first aid and emergency cases. The infirmary shall provide the
following minimal facilities:
   (1)   Protection from the elements.
   (2)   First aid and dispensary area.
   (3)   Available toilets.
   (4)   Available water for drinking and cleaning.
   (5)   An area, which provides quiet and privacy.
   (6)   An isolation area.
   (f)   The day camp must provide continual supervision of campers in the
infirmary or health care shelter.
   (g)   The day camp director shall immediately notify the City-County Health
Department of Oklahoma County whenever a case of hepatitis, meningitis,
Shigella, Giardiasis, Salmonella, measles, rubeola, rubella, whooping cough,
tuberculosis, or any Hemophilus influenza invasive disease is identified in any
person associated with the camp and when clustering or grouping of any other
illness or disease occurs.
Sec. 11-758. Sanitation standards.
   A day camp shall maintain the following standards:
   (1)   The water for all drinking and food preparation purposes must either
be from an approved public water supply or approved in writing by the City-
County Health Department of Oklahoma County no more than thirty (30) days prior
to camp operation.
   (2)   All sewage must be disposed of in a public sewage system or in a
manner approved by the Oklahoma State Department of Health.
   (3)   The campsite must be free from evidence of a sewage disposal problem.
   (4)   A systematic maintenance routine must be in effect that provides
clean, safe, and sanitary conditions throughout camp.
   (5)   Garbage and rubbish disposal areas must be clean, safe, and sanitary.
   (6)   The minimum standard for toilets shall be:
   a.   One (1) toilet for every twenty (20) females.
   b.   One (1) toilet for every twenty (20) males, or one (1) toilet plus one
urinal for every thirty (30) males.
   (7)   Toilet facilities must be:
   a.   In good repair, ventilated, and screened or enclosed.
   b.   Clean and sanitary.
   c.   If latrines are used, they must meet the requirements above and must be
provided with tight-fitting toilet lids and self-closing doors.
   (8)   Hand washing facilities must be provided adjacent to the toilets. At
least one washbasin or equivalent and soap must be provided for every twenty
(20) persons. Hot water temperatures shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120)
degrees Fahrenheit at hand wash sinks.
   (9)   All garbage and rubbish containing food waste, which is temporarily
stored in the kitchen, and dining areas must be kept in leak-proof, non-
absorbent containers, which are covered, with tight-fitting lids when not in
continuous use.
   (10)   Permanent disposal of garbage must be scheduled to prevent build-up
beyond the capacity of closed containers.
Sec. 11-759. Food storage and preparation.
   A day camp, which serves food to the day campers, shall maintain the
following standards for food storage and preparation:
   (1)   All food preparation and storage areas must be:
   (a)   Maintained free of dirt and accumulated grease.
   (b)   Well lighted and ventilated.
   (c)   Protected from rodents and vermin.
   (d)   Designed and equipped to keep food off the floor.
   (2)   Perishable foods must be kept at a temperature of forty-five (45)
degrees or less for cold storage and at a temperature of one hundred forty
(140) degrees or higher for hot storage. Thermometers must be kept in
refrigeration facilities.
   (3)   The director shall cause to be maintained a record of daily menus and
number of persons served and records and inventories of food supplies
purchased.
   (4)   Those food service staff who smoke must:
   a.   Use designated smoking area away from food, food storage, and
preparation areas.
   b.   Wash hands after smoking.
   (5)   Food service utensils must be cleaned and disinfected after each use
in accordance with the following process:
When washing by hand:
   a.   Scrape free of food particles.
   b.   Washed in hot (one hundred (100) plus degrees) soapy water.
   c.   Rinsed in clear, hot water (one hundred (100) plus degrees).
   d.   Rinsed again, either in clear water at one hundred eighty (180) degrees
Fahrenheit, for thirty (30) seconds; or in a suitable chemical sanitizing agent
used as specified on the label or according to the recommendations of the
health officials.
   e.   Air-dried.
When using a mechanical dishwasher:
   a.   Scrape free of food particles.
   b.   Detergent wash with not less than one hundred twenty (120) degrees
Fahrenheit wash water.
   c.   Rinsed, either in clear water at one hundred eighty (180) degrees
Fahrenheit for thirty (30) seconds, or in suitable chemical sanitizing agent
used as specified on the label or according to the recommendations of health
officials.
   d.   Air-dried.
   (6)   Food service utensils must be protected from dust and contamination
between uses.
(Code 1976, 12-6-3; Code 1987, 11-211; Ord. No. 451, Section 1, 12-18-90; Ord.
No. 463, §§1-3, 12-3-91; Ord. No. 507, §2, 9-20-94)
Cross-reference:
24-1 definitions, Child Care Centers.
State law reference: State Day Care Licensing Act, 10 O.S. 401 et seq.
ARTICLE XXII. COIN-OPERATED DEVICES.
§§ 11-759 -- 11-799 Reserved.
State law reference(s) --State licensing and taxation of coin-operated music
and amusement devices. 68 O.S. § 1501 et seq.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 11-800. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Music device means any and all mechanical devices which render, cause to
sound, or release music where the same may be heard by one or more public
patrons, and each separate loudspeaker, phonograph, jukebox, or outlet from
which such music emits shall each be construed to be a separate "music device"
as herein defined; except in the case where the music emits from more than one
speaker transmitting from the same music-producing mechanism, in which case the
several outlets or speakers in each place of business shall be collectively
considered one such music device.
   Coin-operated music device means any such music device, which is operated,
motivated, released or played by or upon the payment or insertion of a coin,
token, or similar object, whether there are one or more boxes or devices in the
premises for the reception of such coin, tokens, or similar objects.
   Coin-operated amusement device means any and all non-gambling mechanical or
electronic machines which, upon the payment or insertion of a coin, token or
similar object, provide music, amusement or entertainment, including, but not
limited to, such games as pool, phonographs, video television, shooting
galleries, pinball, foosball, bowling, shuffleboard, or any other amusement
device with or without a replay feature which can be legally shipped interstate
according to federal law.
   Coin-operated vending device means any and all machines or devices, which,
upon the payment or insertion of a coin, token, or similar object, dispense
tangible personal property, including but not limited to cigarettes, candies,
gum, cold drinks, hot drinks, sandwiches, and chips. It shall not mean vending
machines or devices used exclusively for the purpose of selling services, such
as telephone booths, gas and electric meters or other distribution of needful
services.
   Coin-operated bulk vending device means a machine or device, which, upon the
payment or insertion of a coin, token, or similar object, dispenses to the
purchaser items, which include, but are not limited to, ballpoint pens, combs,
cigarette lighters, prophylactics, filled capsules, peanuts, gumballs, mints,
perfume, or novelties.
   Coin-operated devices mean coin-operated music devices, coin-operated
amusement devices, coin-operated vending devices and coin-operated bulk vending
devices.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
Sec. 11-801. Penalty for article violations.
   a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this article, for which a
separate penalty is not provided, shall, upon conviction thereof, severally and
for each and every such violation be deemed guilty of an offense punishable by
a fine in an amount not to exceed $200.00 and costs. Each day of violation
shall be a separate offense.
   b)   The Director of Building & Code Enforcement and/or his or her designees
shall have the authority to issue citations for violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99). State law reference(s)--Penalty for ordinance
violations, 11 O.S. § 14-111.
Sec. 11-802. Maintenance.
   Every person operating any device licensed under this article shall be
responsible for assuring that said device is in proper mechanical working
condition at all times.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
Sec. 11-803. Sanitation requirements of food vending devices.
   Coin-operated devices, which vend articles of food or materials for human
consumption, shall be maintained in a sanitary manner and shall comply with all
the sanitation ordinances of the City. Such devices shall protect the contents
thereof from contamination at all times.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
Sec. 11-804. Furnishing record of machines to City.
   A list, to be kept by the licensee, showing the tag number and location of
all devices licensed under this division, shall be made available upon request
to the Director of Building & Code Enforcement or his designee.
Sec. 11-805. Inspection.
   The Director of Building & Code Enforcement or his designee may make
inspections as often as necessary to determine whether the devices licensed
hereunder are being operated in compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
Sec. 11-806. Sealing of devices violating article.
   All devices operating in violation of any provision of this article may be
sealed by the Director of Building & Code Enforcement or his duly authorized
representatives in a manner that will prevent further operation and such
devices shall remain sealed until released by the Director of Building & Code
Enforcement or his duly authorized representatives after the owner or operator
of such devices shall have come into compliance.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
§§ 11-807--11-849. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
Sec. 11-850. License required.
   No person shall keep, operate, maintain, control or be in charge of any
coin-operated music, amusement, or vending device without having first obtained
a license issued by the Supervisor of Licenses.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
Sec. 11-851. Restrictions on issuance.
   No license shall be issued hereunder for any coin-operated device designed
and intended to be used for the purpose of gambling, showing obscene pictorial
matter, making loud and unusual noise, vending any merchandise of inferior or
unsanitary nature, or the vending of any merchandise prohibited by law.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
Sec. 11-852. Fee in lieu of sales tax.
   A person required to obtain a license pursuant to the provisions of this
division shall pay to the City an annual fee in the amount of thirty-seven
($37.50) dollars. The fee herein levied is the exclusive fee and is in lieu of
municipal sales taxes. Provided, further, in no event shall the fee levied
exceed 75 percent of the fee imposed by state law.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
State law reference(s)--Limitations on fees, 68 O.S. § 1511.
Sec. 11-853. Term.
   A license issued pursuant to the provisions of this division shall be for a
period of one year and shall expire on June 30 of each year, unless sooner
suspended or revoked. Proration of license fees shall not be permitted.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
Sec. 11-854. Display of licensee's name, address, etc.; display of tag.
   a)   Every device licensed under this division shall have affixed thereto or
inscribed thereon, in a conspicuous place, the name, address and telephone
number of the licensee.
   b)   Every device licensed under this division shall have the license tag
issued by the City of The Village affixed thereto. The license tag shall be
placed on the device in a conspicuous place.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
Sec. 11-855. Revocation.
   c)   The City Manager is hereby granted authority to revoke any license
issued under this division if he finds that any ordinance or law of this state
relating to coin-operated devices has been violated. Prior to revocation of
such license, the City Manager shall give to the licensee five (5) days written
notice of a hearing to determine whether the license held by the licensee shall
be revoked. The notice shall advise the licensee of the time and place of the
proceeding and of the nature of the violation.
   d)   No person shall operate such a device during any period in which the
license pertaining to the operation of the device is revoked.
   e)   The provisions of this section shall in no way limit or interfere with
the enforcement of penalties for violations of ordinances as provided elsewhere
in this Code but shall be in addition to such penalties.
(Ord. No. 547, § 1, 6-15-99)
§§ 11-856--11-899. Reserved.
ARTICLE XXIII.
HOME SHARING
(Ord. 759, 07-19-2021; 2022 City Code)
Sec. 11-900.   Definition.
Home Sharing is defined as lodging accommodations that are provided in a
dwelling or room(s) in a dwelling for rent for a period of time not to exceed
more than 30 consecutive days per renter/guest.
Cross reference-Definitions, Chapter 24, §
24-1.
Sec. 11-901.   License.
No person shall operate within the city any Home Sharing use without a license
issued by the City.
Sec. 11-902.   General Conditions.
   (a)   The rental of the entire home or bedroom(s) may not exceed 30
consecutive days per renter/guest.
   (b)   The owner of the property shall be required to comply with any
applicable building or fire codes adopted by the City, including but not
limited to working smoke detectors, a carbon monoxide detector, and a
functioning fire extinguisher.
   (c)   All applicable fees and taxes must be collected and paid.
   (d)   All renters/guests who are not legal dependents staying with their
parents or legal guardians must be age 18 or older.
   (e)   Home Sharing properties shall outwardly appear as a residential
dwelling and shall not adversely affect the residential character of the
neighborhood or generate noise, vibration, glare, odors, or other effects that
unreasonably interfere with any person's enjoyment of his or her residence.
   (f)   Renters/guests shall not violate any parking ordinances adopted by the
City.
   (g)   Owners of Home Sharing properties who do not reside within a 25 50-
mile radius of The Village city limits must identify an individual or
individuals to serve as a local contact to respond to emergency conditions.
This local contact must be able to respond within 1 hour after being notified
of an emergency by a renter/guest or a City employee. Any changes in local
contact must be provided to the City Clerk in writing within 3 business days of
the change.
   (h)   License holders shall provide the valid license number on any listing
advertising or soliciting the property for Home Sharing purposes.
   (i)   Individuals (whether personally or as principals of separate entities)
may not hold more than two (2) licenses under this Article.
   (j)   Licenses issued for Home Sharing Principal Uses in each City Ward
shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the total residential dwelling units
within that Ward.
Sec. 11-903.   License Application Requirements.
An application for a Home Sharing license shall be filed with the City Clerk.
Such application shall include the following information:
   (a)   The name, street address, mailing address, and telephone number of the
owner of the property proposed for Home Sharing use, which includes the owner's
primary physical address, a mailing address, cell phone number, and email
address, along with an indication for whether the Home Sharing use will be the
principal use of the property or an accessory use.
   (b)   If required under Section
11-902(g), the name, street address, mailing address, and telephone number,
which includes a primary physical address, a mailing address, cell phone
number, and email address of a local contact available to be reached 24 hours
per day and 7 days per week.
   (c)   A certification by the property owner and, if applicable, property
manager, that:
   (1)   The property is not subject to outstanding City Code of state law
violations;
   (2)   All required egress windows in bedrooms are operational;
   (3)   Operational smoke detectors, carbon monoxide detectors, and fire
extinguishers have been furnished, as required by adopted building and fire
codes; and
   (4)   The property is in compliance with applicable provisions of the City's
minimum property maintenance, building, electrical, mechanical, and plumbing
codes.
   (d)   Proof of current, valid property insurance.
   (e)   Proof of payment of transient guest room tax and sales tax due as of
the date of submission of the application.
   (f)   The number of bedrooms and the proposed occupancy limits, indicating a
maximum occupancy no greater than two (2) guests/renters per bedroom or eight
(8) guests/renters total.
   (g)   A diagram showing the proposed layout of the property and any on-site
parking available, including a floor plan indicating fire exits and escape
routes.
   (h)   Authorization for the City's building official to conduct an annual
minimum life-safety inspection of the property.
Sec. 11-904.   Issuance of License Requirements.
Upon satisfactory submission of the required application documentation and
attestations and verification of the contents provided therein, the City Clerk
may issue an annual Home Sharing license. The license shall contain the
following information:
   (a)   Street address of the property licensed for Home Sharing use.
   (b)   License holder's name.
   (c)   License number and rental limitations, including bedroom limit and
guest occupancy limit.
   (d)   Contact information (name, cell phone, email) of local contact able to
respond to on- premises complaints or emergencies.
   (e)   Proof of payment of transient guest room tax and sales tax as of the
date of submission of the application.
   (f)   Date's license is valid.
   (g)   The structure has a valid certificate of occupancy or has been
determined by the City's building official to not pose a hazard to life,
health, or public safety, based on a minimum life-safety inspection
Sec. 11-905.   Fees.
Home Sharing Principal Use applicants shall pay a fee to the City Clerk of
$75.00 $150.00 for the initial application for the license and an annual fee of
$25.00 $75.00 for subsequent renewal terms. Home Sharing Accessory Use
applicants shall pay a fee to the City Clerk of $75.00 for the initial
application for the license and an annual fee of $25.00 for subsequent renewal
terms.
Sec. 11-906.   Required Information to be Posted and Provided to Renters/
Guests.
The license holder shall post the following information in a prominent location
in the interior, clearly visible to guests and provide a packet of the
information, summarizing the restrictions applicable to Short-Term Rental use,
including:
   (a)   The license registration, which includes license number;
   (b)   Operator's name and number and property manager, if applicable, name
and number;
   (c)   Local contact person name and number;
   (d)   The location of any on-site and off-site parking spaces available for
guests;
   (e)   Occupancy limits;
   (f)   Parking restrictions;
   (g)   Information on relevant burn bans;
   (h)   Information on relevant water restrictions;
   (i)   Trash and recycling collection rules and dates; and
   (j)   Floor plan with fire exit and escape routes.
Sec. 11-907.   License Renewal.
Except as otherwise provided, a license may be renewed annually if:
   (a)   The license holder pays the renewal fee as established by City Council
resolution;
   (b)   The license holder provides documentation showing the transient guest
room and sales taxes have been paid for the Home Sharing property, as required;
   (c)   The license holder provides any updates to information provided in the
initial license application;
   (d)   The property is not the subject of any outstanding City Code or state
law violations;
The City may deny an application to renew a license if the applicant does not
provide all necessary information necessary to determine that the dwelling unit
meets all requirements for the issuance or renewal of a license.
Sec. 11-908. License Denial, Suspension, or Revocation.
   (a)   If the licensee fails to comply with any conditions of the Home
Sharing license, the City may deny, suspend, or revoke the license.
   (b)   If a property is the subject of violations of the City Code or state
law during a 24-month period prior to submitting the Application, the City may
deny, suspend, or revoke an application for a Home Sharing license based on the
following:
   (1)   The frequency of any repeated violations;
   (2)   Whether a violation was committed intentionally or knowingly; or
   (3)   Any other information that demonstrates the degree to which the owner
or occupant has endangered public health, safety, or welfare.
   (c)   If an Application is denied, suspended, or revoked, and an Applicant
desires to submit a new Application, the City Clerk may not grant a license
unless the Applicant first obtains a specific use permit pursuant to Sections
24-25 and
24-26 of Chapter 24 of The Village Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 759, 07-19-2021; 2022 City Code)
Sec. §§ 11-909-11-949. Reserved.
ARTICLE XXIV.
SPECIAL PUBLIC EVENT PERMITS
Sec. 11-950. Permit required.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person or authority to engage in the
conduct of any special public event on public property, without first obtaining
a permit from the City Manager (or the City Manager's designee) and paying a
special public event permit fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per
event. The form for the special public event permit shall be provided by the
City Manager or his or her designee, in accordance with guidelines approved by
the city.
   (b)   Any special public event utilizing all or a portion of any public
right-of-way shall also obtain the written consent of the City of The Village
Police Chief and the City of The Village Fire Chief, or their respective
designees.
   (c)   Licenses or additional permits may be required depending on the
activities conducted at the special public event.
   (d)   The special public event permit may be issued for multiple dates of
the same reoccurring event provided no changes are made to the site plan or
number of vendors and all dates occur within twelve (12) months.
(Ord. No. 774, § 1, 10-14-24)
Sec. 11-951. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them by this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   (a)   Athletic event means an athletic activity involving running, walking
and/or cycling and associated activities conducted over, under, upon and/or
across a public right-of-way.
   (b)   Carnival means any public amusement show including rides, games and/or
sideshows.
   (c)   Festival means a public celebration featuring cultural exhibitions,
competitions, performances, art, merchandise and/or vendor sales.
   (d)   Organizer means the person or entity in charge of organizing and
conducting a permitted special event.
   (e)   Private property events means events conducted solely on private
property, not open to the public and not requiring the use of any public right-
of-way.
   (f)   Parade means an organized procession upon a festive or ceremonial
occasion.
   (g)   Public right-of-way means any street, sidewalk, alley and/or easement
dedicated to the public use.
   (h)   Site plan means a diagram approximately to scale depicting all public
rights-of-way or parkland sought to be closed and utilized for the conduct of
the event, the location of any structure, stand, tent, vehicle, sign, restroom
facilities, trash receptacles and/or displays to be used while conducting the
event.
   (i)    Special event site means geographic limits of all activities
conducted as a part of the special public event. For athletic events, it
includes the route of the event.
   (j)   Special public event or event means a temporary public assembly
outside the confines of an enclosed structure on public property including but
not limited to carnivals, festivals, parades and athletic events.
   (k)   Vendor means any person or entity engaged in the provision of
merchandise, services or food and beverages for a fee at any special public
event or tickets therefore.
(Ord. No. 774, § 1, 10-14-24)
Sec. 11-952. Application procedure.
   (a)   Contents of application. Applicants for a special public events permit
under this article shall file with the City Manager's Office a verified
application on a form to be furnished by the City Manager's Office.
   (b)   The complete application shall be received by the City Manager's
Office not less than sixty (60) days prior to the commencement of the event.
   (c)   Applications will be processed in the order in which complete
applications are received. If a scheduling conflict occurs, preference will be
given to long standing annual events on the customary date.
(Ord. No. 774, § 1, 10-14-24)
Sec. 11-953. Permit regulations.
   (a)   The permit shall be subject to, and subordinate to, any franchise for
the use of the public rights-of-way previously or subsequently granted by the
city to any public utilities, firms or corporations, and the permit shall
further be subject to, and subordinate to, the right and power of the city to
construct, operate and maintain any public utilities or public facilities in,
above and under the public right-of-way.
   (b)   During the permit period, the organizer of the special public event
will be authorized to limit motorized-vehicle access to the event site by the
placement of approved temporary barricades.
   (c)   The organizer is authorized to limit and regulate temporary exhibits,
promotional activities, peddlers, entertainers and vendor sales within the
event site; provided, free unregulated access to permanent businesses and
operations of such businesses on private property within or adjacent to the
event site shall not be inhibited.
   (d)   The organizer shall not make or suffer any use of occupancy of the
event site contrary to any law, state statute or city ordinance currently in
effect or hereafter adopted. At all times during the operation of the event,
the organizer shall comply with all requests and requirements made by
representatives of the City Manager, Chief of Police, Fire Chief, Director of
Public Works, and Director of Planning of the City with respect to security,
surveillance and public safety, traffic control, barricades, pedestrian
matters, fire safety and all matters related thereto; and at all times the
foregoing city officials and their designated agents shall be allowed to fully
inspect the operation of the event and the event site. Organizer shall also
comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   All lane and street closure locations authorized under the permit
are shown on the event Traffic Control Plan. All closures shall be in full
conformance with the requirements of the current edition of the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices. The placement of traffic control devices shall
be reviewed by the City Engineer or his or her designee.
      (2)   The organizer must, if applicable, contact The Village Police
Department for escort or traffic control.
      (3)   No portion of any special event shall trespass on private property.
This requirement shall in no way limit permissive use of private property.
      (4)   There shall be no damage, drilling, painting or construction upon
city streets, sidewalks or other public property.
   (e)   The organizer shall bear, pay and discharge all taxes, assessments,
duties, impositions and burdens whatsoever assessed, charged or imposed within
or upon and in connection with the use of the event site by organizer except as
may be exempted, by local, state or federal laws or regulations and to deliver
to the city the proper and sufficient receipts and other evidence of the prompt
payment and discharge of same, if any.
   (f)   Subject to compliance with all provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this
section, the organizer is authorized to install, place, and maintain
improvements within the event site during the term of the event, and such
installation, placement, and maintenance, as well as removal of improvements
within the event site shall be at the sole risk and expense of organizer.
   (g)   Organizer shall bear, pay, and discharge any and all obligations,
costs, fees, or expenses incurred by organizer for the construction, erection,
and removal of any improvements and/or services provided within the event site
or connected with the event, and shall bear, pay, and discharge all costs or
expenses incurred by organizer in connection with the maintenance or repair of
any such improvements within the event site during the term of the permit.
   (h)   Organizer shall dismantle and remove any improvements and shall clean
up all trash and debris from the event site generated by the event within the
term of the permit. In the event the organizer fails to fulfill these
obligations in a timely manner, the city shall have the right to do or have
done such work and recover the cost of such work from organizer. Further,
failure of organizer to comply with the provisions of this paragraph shall
constitute grounds for denial of subsequent permit requests.
   (i)   The organizer shall indemnify and hold the City of The Village and
public trusts of which it is the sole beneficiary, harmless from all claims,
suits, actions or judgments, including but not limited to all expenses,
attorneys' fees, witness fees, and all other costs of defending any such action
or claim or appeals therefrom, arising out of any defect of the event site or
from the maintenance, operation or conduct of the event by organizer, its
agents or employees or its invitees, vendors, or licensees.
   (j)   For events occupying all or a portion of public rights-of-way or
parkland, organizer shall obtain and maintain in effect an insurance policy
with comprehensive general liability coverage sufficient to pay the city's
maximum liability under the Governmental Tort Claims Act (51 O.S. §§ 151, et
seq.) as it may be amended from time to time, covering any alleged liability
and costs of defense of the city for any claim under any theory arising in
connection with the event. Said coverages shall be effective during the entire
term of the permit on an occurrence basis. Said insurance policy shall name the
City of The Village and public trusts, of which it is the sole beneficiary, as
additional insured and provide that coverage cannot be canceled or materially
modified except upon ten (10) days' prior written notice to the City of The
Village of said cancellation or modification. Organizer shall pay any and all
insurance deductibles that are required to be paid under the insurance policy.
An original certificate of insurance with proof of receipts of premium showing
compliance with all of these terms and conditions shall be delivered to the
city fifteen (15) days prior to the event date.
   (k)   Organizer shall assume full responsibility for ensuring the protection
of all city property within the event site, including but not limited to
streets, sidewalks, trees, plants, shrubs, buildings, and the like. Any damage
which may occur to city property will be the responsibility of organizer if the
same occurs within the event site during the term of the event and as a result
of the event. This section specifically excludes normal wear and tear as
determined by the city.
(Ord. No. 774, § 1, 10-14-24)
Sec. 11-954. Departmental review; conditions and requirements.
   All applications for special public event permits shall be reviewed and
recommendations made by the Police Department, the Fire Department, Planning
Department, Public Works Department, and all other city departments affected by
the application. The City Manager is authorized to condition approvals of
permit applications on compliance with recommendations of city departments.
(Ord. No. 774, § 1, 10-14-24)
Sec. 11-955. Revocation.
   (a)   Any special event permit issued under the terms of this article may be
revoked by the City Manager or his or her designee, the Police Chief or his or
her designee, and/or the Fire Chief or his or her designee for grounds,
including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement contained in the
application for the permit;
      (2)   The organizer conducts the event for which the permit has been
issued in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace;
      (3)   The conduct of the event has caused, will cause or will have the
effect of an imminent threat to the public health, safety, and/or general
welfare; and/or
      (4)   The organizer has failed to comply with all the terms and
conditions of the permit.
   (b)   Upon revocation of the permit, the organizer shall immediately
terminate the conduct of the event, and dismantle and remove any improvements
and/or obstructions located in any public rights-of-way, parkland, and the
event site, and return the public rights-of-way and parkland to the original
condition before the event.
   (c)   Revocation for cause shall constitute grounds for denial of subsequent
permit requests.
(Ord. No. 774, § 1, 10-14-24)
CHAPTER 12
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AND OFFENSES
Art. I.   In General, §§ 12-1--12-15
Art. II.   Offenses against Public Authority, §§ 12-16--12-40
Art. III.      Offenses against Public Order and Safety, §§ 12-41--12-95
   
Div. 1.   Generally, §§ 12-41--12-65
   
Div. 2.   Noise, §§ 12-66--12-95
Art. IV.   Offenses Involving Property, §§ 12-96--12-115
Art. V.   Gambling, §§ 12-116--12-123
Art. VI.   Fireworks, §§ 12-124--12-135
Art. VII.   Water Emergencies
Art. VIII.   Curfew for Minors, Truancy §§ 12-150--12-156
Art. IX.   Youth Access to Tobacco, §§ 12-200--12-207
Art. X.   Smoking in Public Places, §§ 12-250 -12-261
Art. XI.   Remediation of Methamphetamine Labs, §§ 12-300--12-303
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 12-1. Aiding and abetting.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly aid, abet, or assist,
directly or indirectly, any other person in the commission of an offense.
(Code 1976, § 10-1-2)
State law reference--Aiding and abetting, 21 O.S. §§ 171, 172.
Sec. 12-2. Penalty for violations.
   Any person who violates any section of Chapter 12, unless otherwise provided
herein, shall be punished according to a Class A Offense as provided in section
1-9 of the Code.
(Ord. No. 382, § 1, 5-19-87)
Cross reference--Penalty for violation of Article VI, § 12-140.
Secs. 12-3--12-15. Reserved.
Cross reference--Motor vehicles and traffic,
Ch. 13.
ARTICLE II. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Sec. 12-16. Failure to appear in court or pay fine.
   Any person who has been:
   (a)   Issued a citation or complaint for violation of any ordinance who
fails to appear in municipal court on the date and time set in the citation or
complaint; or
   (b)   Ordered or directed to return to appear in municipal court on the date
and time set by the court and fails to appear; or
   (c)   Ordered or directed by the municipal court to pay or satisfy a fine by
the date and time set by the court and fails to pay or satisfy the fine is
guilty of a Class A offense.
(Code 1976, §§ 10-17-1, 10-17-2, 15-16-1, 15-16-2; Ord. No. 347, §1, 7-3-84;
Ord. No. 392, § 1, 9-1-87)
Cross-reference--Penalty for Class A violations, §
1-9.
Sec. 12-17. Resisting or obstructing city officers or employees.
   Any person who willfully delays or obstructs any public officer in the
discharge or attempt to discharge any duty of his office shall be guilty of a
Class A Offense.
(Code 1976, § 10-2-1(a), (b))
State law reference--Obstructing officers, 21, O.S. § 540.
Sec. 12-18. False information to city officers or employees.
   No person shall give false information to a city officer or employee who has
lawfully stopped him for violation of any ordinance of this Code or law of this
state.
(Code 1976, § 10-2-1(1))
Sec. 12-19. Fraud.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to make any material
misrepresentation to any officer, employee, or agency of the city government in
any official application to, or official dealing or negotiation with, such
officer or agency.
(Code 1976, § 10-16-2)
Sec. 12-20. Perjury.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit perjury before any tribunal or
officer of the city.
(Code 1976, § 10-16-2)
State law reference--Perjury, 21 O.S. § 491 et seq.
Sec. 12-21. Escape from custody.
   No person shall:
   (1)   Remove or aid in the removal of any prisoner from custody except by
legal process; or
   (2)   Break or attempt to break from custody after having been arrested and
taken into custody.
(Code 1976, § 10-2-1(f), (g))
State law reference--Escapes from prison, etc., 21 O.S. § 431 et seq.
Sec. 12-22. Unauthorized deliveries to prisoners.
   No person shall deliver any article or thing to any person under arrest and
in custody without the consent and permission of the city officer or employee
who has such prisoner in his charge and custody.
(Code 1976, § 10-2-1(e))
State law reference--Carrying into prisons things to aid escape, 21 O.S. § 438.
Sec. 12-23. Impersonation of city officers and employees.
   No person shall impersonate an officer or employee of the city falsely by
any kind of representation, pretense, insignia, sound, clothing, or conduct.
(Code 1976, § 10-2-1(d))
State law reference--Impersonation of police, 21 O.S. §§ 263, 264, 1533.
Sec. 12-24. Refusal to aid police.
   No person shall refuse when in his presence to aid a police officer in
making an arrest if the officer so requests.
(Code 1976, § 10-2-1(c))
State law reference--Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 538.
Sec. 12-25. Fleeing from police.
   No person shall flee from any police officer after having been notified by
him of his identity and intention to arrest the person addressed. It shall be a
defense under this section that the officer failed to reasonably identify
himself or his purpose.
(Code 1976, § 10-2-1(h))
Sec. 12-26. Acts against Police Dog or Police Horse.
   (a)   No person shall willfully torture, torment, beat, mutilate, injure,
disable, or otherwise mistreat a police dog or police horse owned, or the
service of which is employed, by The Village Police Department.
   (b)   No person shall willfully interfere with the lawful performance of any
police dog or police horse.
   (c)   Any person who is convicted of violating any provision of this section
shall be guilty of Class A Offense, punishable by the imposition of a fine not
exceeding seven hundred and fifty ($750.00) dollars, or by imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
State law reference: O.S. Title 21, §649.1
(Ord No. 546, §1, 2-2-99)
Sec. 12-27. Kill Police Dog or Police Horse.
   (a)   No person shall willfully kill any police dog or police horse owned,
or the service of which is employed, by The Village Police Department.
   (b)   Any person who is convicted of violating any provision of this section
shall be guilty of Class A Offense, punishable by the imposition of a fine not
exceeding Seven Hundred and Fifty ($750.00) dollars, or by imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding sixty (60) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
State law reference: O.S. Title 21, §649.2
(Ord No. 546, §2, 2-2-99)
Sec. 12-28. Intimidation of witnesses.
   a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously and with intent to
intimidate or harass another person or to damage, destroy vandalize or deface
any real or personal property of another person in an attempt to deter or
prevent such other person from either making a report to the police of an
alleged violation of this Code or for providing testimony in any matter before
the municipal court.
   b)   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any provision of
this Section shall be guilty of a Class A offense and upon conviction whereof
shall be subject to a fine of not more than Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars
($750.00) and up to sixty (60) days imprisonment or both said fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. No. 608, §1, 08-16-2005)
Secs. 12-29--12-40. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 12-41. Assault, battery, etc.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to attempt to strike or in any unlawful
manner offer to do bodily harm to another, or to make an attempt to apply,
either directly or indirectly, any degree of force or violence to the person of
another.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to strike, beat, maim, or in any
unlawful manner do bodily injury to another, or in a violent, angry, rude, or
insolent manner touch or lay hands upon the person of another.
(Code 1976, §§ 10-9-1, 10-9-2)
State law references--Assault, battery, etc., 21 O.S. § 461 et seq.; authority
to punish assaults, etc., 11 O.S. § 22-110.
Sec. 12-42. False alarms, complaints, or information; violations; penalty.
   (a)   No person shall harass or attempt to harass or mislead any officer by
false alarm or by use of any device to summon police, fire protection, or other
emergency aid without reasonable cause.
   (b)   No person shall turn or send in any false alarm of fire, or make any
false signal or alarm willfully calculated to falsely or unnecessarily call out
the Fire Department or others engaged in the prevention of fires.
   (c)   No person shall call the number nine-one-one (9-1-1) for the purpose
of making a knowingly false alarm or complaint or reporting knowingly false
information which could result in the dispatch of emergency serves from any
public agency as defined in Section 2813 of Title 63 of the Oklahoma Statutes,
nor shall any person call nine-one-one (9-1-1) for nonemergency or personal
use.
   (d)   Any person violating the provisions of this section, upon conviction,
shall be punished for a Class B offense as set forth in Section 1-9 of this
Code, and by an assessment for the resulting costs of any dispatching of
emergency personnel and equipment for each such offense.
(Code 1976, § 10-2-1(i); Ord. No. 737, §1,2 04-16-2018)
Sec. 12-43. Disturbing the peace.
   If any person shall willfully or maliciously disturb, either by day or
night, the peace and quiet of the city or any neighborhood, family or person by
loud or unusual noise, or by abusive, violent, obscene or profane language,
whether addressed to the party so disturbed or some other person, or by
threatening to kill, do bodily harm or injury, destroy property, fight, or by
quarreling or challenging to fight, or fighting, or shooting off any firearms,
or brandishing the same he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1976, § 10-3-1)
State law reference--Disturbing the peace, 21 O.S. § 1361 et seq.
Sec. 12-44. Disorderly conduct.
   No person shall:
   (1)   Threaten physical violence; or
   (2)   Engage in violent or tumultuous conduct.
(Code 1976, § 10-3-2)
State law reference--Disorderly conduct generally, 21 O.S. § 1361 et seq.
Sec. 12-45. Public intoxication.
   No person shall appear in any highway or other public place or upon any
private property not lawfully under his control under the influence of alcohol,
narcotics, or other drugs not therapeutically administered.
(Code 1976, § 10-4-1)
Cross references--Driving under influence of alcohol or drugs, §
13-9; driving while ability impaired by consumption of alcohol, §
13-10.
State law reference--Public intoxication, 37 O.S. § 1.
Sec. 12-46. Indecent exposure.
   Any person who shall indecently expose his person, or who shall be guilty of
any lewd or lascivious conduct in public shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1976, § 10-4-2)
State law reference--Indecent exposure, 21 O.S. § 1021.
Sec. 12-47. Peeping toms.
   No person shall look, peer, or peep into, or commit an act of voyeurism
around, or within view of any window not on his own property with the intent of
watching or looking through said window.
(Code 1976, § 10-4-3)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1171.
Sec. 12-48. Obscene materials and conduct.
   (a)   As used in this section:
   (1)   Obscene means that to the average person, applying contemporary
community standards, the depiction of sexual conduct in material is patently
offensive, and taken as a whole, appeals to prurient interest and lacks serious
literary, artistic, educational, or scientific purpose or value.
   (2)   Sexual conduct means and includes any of the following:
   a.   Acts of sexual intercourse including any intercourse, which is normal
or perverted, actual, or simulated;
   b.   Acts of deviate sexual conduct, including oral and anal sodomy;
   c.   Acts of masturbation;
   d.   Acts of excretion in a sexual context; or
   e.   Acts of exhibiting human genitals or pubic areas.
   (b) No person shall knowingly sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit,
publish, or otherwise distribute, display, or exhibit any book, magazine,
pamphlet, paper, writing, card, circular, print, photograph, motion picture
film, video recording, image, case, slide, figure, instrument, statue, drawing,
presentation, or other article or material pertaining to sexual conduct, which
is obscene as defined herein.
(Code 1976, § 10-4-5; Ord. No. 378, §§ 1, 2, 2-3-87)
Cross-reference--Sexually oriented businesses, § 11-296 et seq.
State law reference--Obscene materials and conduct, 21 O.S. §§
1021-1040.53.
Sec. 12-49. Material harmful to minors.
   (a)   In this section:
   (1)   A reasonable bona fide attempt means an attempt to ascertain the true
age of the minor by requiring production of a driver's license, marriage
license, and birth certificate or other governmental or educational
identification card or paper and not relying solely on the oral allegations or
apparent age of the minor.
   (2)   Harmful to minors means that quality of any description, exhibition,
presentation, or representation, in whatever form, or nudity, sexual conduct,
sexual excitement, or sadomasochistic abuse when the material or performance,
taken as a whole, has the following characteristics:
   a.   The average adult person applying contemporary community standards
would find that the material or performance has a predominant tendency to
appeal to a prurient interest in sex to minors; and
   b.   The average adult person applying contemporary community standards
would find that the material or performance depicts or describes nudity, sexual
conduct, sexual excitement, or sadomasochistic abuse in a manner that is
patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community with respect
to what is suitable for minors; and
   c.   The material or performance lacks serious literary, scientific,
artistic, or political value for minors.
   (3)   Knowingly means having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a
belief or ground for belief, which warrants further inspection or inquiry of
both:
   a.   The character and content of any material or performance which is
reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
   b.   The age of the minor; however, an honest mistake shall constitute an
excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a reasonable bona fide
attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
   (4)   Material means any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print,
picture, figure, image, description, motion picture film, record, or recording
tape, videotape.
   (5)   Minor means any unmarried person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   (6)   Nudity means the showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic
area, or buttocks with less than full opaque covering; the showing of the
female breast with less than a full opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple; or the depiction of covered male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state.
   (7)   Performance means any motion picture, film, video tape, played record,
phonograph or tape, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance, or other
exhibition performed or presented to or before an audience of one or more, with
or without consideration.
   (8)   Sadomasochistic abuse means flagellation or torture by or upon a
person clad in undergarments, a mask, or bizarre costume, or the condition of
being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so
clothed.
   (9)   Sexual conduct means acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual
intercourse, or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals,
pubic area, buttocks, or, if such person be a female, breast.
   (10)   Sexual excitement means the condition of human male or female
genitals when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (b)   No person having custody, control or supervision of any commercial
establishment shall knowingly:
   (1)   Display material which is harmful to minors in such a way that minors,
as a part of the invited general public, will be exposed to view such material
provided, however, a person shall be deemed not to have displayed material
harmful to minors if the material is kept behind devices commonly known as
blinder racks so that the lower two-thirds of the material is not exposed to
view;
   (2)   Sell, furnish, present, distribute, allow to view, or otherwise
disseminate to a minor, with or without consideration, any material which is
harmful to minors; or
   (3)   Present to a minor or participate in presenting to a minor, with or
without consideration, any performance, which is harmful to a minor.
   (c)   It shall be an affirmative defense to any prosecution under this
section that the material or performance involved was displayed, presented or
disseminated to a minor at a recognized and established school, church, museum,
medical clinic, hospital, public library, governmental agency, quasi-
governmental agency and persons acting in their capacity as employees or agents
of such persons or organizations, and which institution displays, presents or
disseminates such material or performance for a bona fide governmental,
educational or scientific purpose.
   (d)   Each day that any violation of this section occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as a separate violation.
Every act, thing, or transaction prohibited by this section shall constitute a
separate offense as to each item; issue or title involved and shall be
punishable as such. For the purpose of this section, multiple copies of the
same identical title, monthly issue, volume and number issue, or other such
identical material shall constitute a single offense.
(Ord. No. 359, § 1(17-17A-1), 9-17-85)
State law reference--Materials harmful to minors, 21 O.S. § 1021.2.
Sec. 12-50. Prostitution.
   (a)    In this section:
   (1)   Lewdness means the making of any appointment or engagement for
prostitution or lewdness or any act in furtherance of such appointment or
engagement.
   (2)   Prostitution means the giving or receiving of the body for sexual
intercourse for hire, and the giving or receiving of the body for
indiscriminate sexual intercourse without hire.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (1)   Engage in prostitution, lewdness, or assignation;
   (2)   Solicit, induce, entice, or procure another to commit an act of
lewdness, assignation, or prostitution, with himself;
   (3)   Reside in, enter, or remain in any structure or any vehicle or
conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation;
   (4)   Aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts herein
prohibited; or
   (5)   Engage in any sexual acts with a prostitute for hire.
(Code 1976, §§ 10-4-6, 10-4-7)
Sec. 12-51. Possession of weapons.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession, except
within his own domicile, or carry or use any: air gun; "B-B gun"; gas-operated
or spring gun; instrument, toy, or weapon commonly known as a "pea shooter,"
"slingshot," or "beanie"; bow of any kind made for the purpose of throwing or
projecting missiles of any kind by any means whatsoever; sword cane; blackjack;
loaded cane; billy; hand chain; metal knuckles; or other offensive weapon.
   (b)   Subsection (a) does not:
   (1)   Apply to United States marshals, state sheriffs, constables, and their
deputies, and any regular, special, or ex officio police officer, or any other
law enforcement officer from carrying or wearing, while on duty, such weapons
as shall be necessary in the proper discharge of their duties;
   (2)   Prohibit the transportation of weapons in a manner consistent with
state law.
(Code 1976, §§ 10-8-1--10-8-3; Ord. No. 715 § 1 11-07-2016)
Sec. 12-52. Landing helicopters.
   No person shall land a helicopter within the city except where a police or
medical emergency is involved or unless written permission is secured from the
city manager in advance of such landing.
(Ord. No. 256, § 1(7-6A-1), 5-1-79)
Sec. 12-53. Glue sniffing.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliberately smell, inhale,
breathe, drink or otherwise consume any compound, liquid, chemical, narcotic,
drug, or any other substance or chemical containing any ketones, aldehydes, or
organic acetones, ether, chlorinated hydrocarbons, such as gasoline, blue,
fingernail polish, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope, or any other substance or
combination thereof containing solvents releasing toxic vapors, which can cause
conditions of intoxication, inebriation, excitement, elation, stupification,
paralysis, irrationality, dulling of the brain or nervous system, or any other
changing, distorting or disturbing of the eyesight, thinking processes,
judgment, balance or coordination of such person.
   (b)   Subsection (a) does not apply:
   (1)   To any person who inhales, breathes, drinks, or otherwise consumes
such material or substance described pursuant to the direction or description
of any licensed doctor, physician, surgeon, dentist, or podiatrist, or
   (2)   To the consumption of intoxicating liquor in such place or manner as
may be authorized and permitted by law.
(Code 1976, § 10-6-2)
Cross reference--Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, §
13-9.
State law reference--Glue sniffing, 37 O.S. § 8, 63 O.S. § 465.20.
Sec. 12-54. Controlled dangerous substances; Drug paraphernalia.
   (a)   In this section "controlled dangerous substance" means a drug,
substance or immediate precursor in Schedules I through V of the Uniform
Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, Title 63, § 2-101 et seq.
   (b)   In this section "drug paraphernalia" means all equipment, products and
materials of any kind which are used or intended for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body, a controlled dangerous substance in violation
of the Oklahoma Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act. Drug paraphernalia
includes, but is not limited to:
   (1)   Kits used or intended for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, or harvesting of any species of plant which is a controlled dangerous
substance or from which a controlled dangerous substance can be derived;
   (2)   Kits used or intended for use in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled dangerous
substances;
   (3)   Isomerization devices used or intended for use in increasing the
potency of any species of plant, which is a controlled dangerous substance;
   (4)   Testing equipment used or intended for use in identifying, or in
analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of controlled dangerous
substances;
   (5)   Scales and balances used or intended for use in identifying, or in
analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of controlled dangerous
substances;
   (6)   Dilutents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used or intended for use in cutting controlled
dangerous substances;
   (7)   Separation gins and sifters used or intended for use in removing twigs
and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining marijuana;
   (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices used or
intended for use in compounding controlled dangerous substances;
   (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used or intended
for use in packaging small quantities of controlled dangerous substances;
   (10)   Containers and other objects used or intended for use in parenterally
injecting controlled dangerous substances into the human body, such as:
   (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal bowls;
   (b)   Water pipes;
   (c)   Carburetion tubes and devises;
   (d)   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material, such as a
marijuana cigarette, which has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
   (e)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
   (f)   Chamber pipes;
   (g)   Carburetor pipes;
   (h)   Electric pipes;
   (i)   Air-driven pipes;
   (j)   Chillums;
   (k)   Bongs;
   (l)   Ice pipes or chillers.
provided, however, drug paraphernalia shall not include separation gins
intended for use in preparing tea or spice, clamps used for constructing
electrical equipment, water pipes designed for ornamentation or pipes designed
for smoking tobacco.
   (c)   It is unlawful for any person:
   (1)   Under the influence of a controlled dangerous substance as defined
herein to appear or be upon or in any street, alley, place of business, or
other public place in the city;
   (2)   To use a controlled dangerous substance as defined herein upon or in
any street, alley, place of business, or other public place;
   (3)   To possess any controlled dangerous substances as defined herein
except as legally prescribed by a physician licensed to practice in this state;
   (4)   To loiter about a place where any controlled dangerous substance as
defined herein is sold or furnished illegally;
   (5)   To sell or furnish illegally to another person any controlled
dangerous substance as defined herein.
   (6)   To have in his possession drug paraphernalia as defined herein.
   (7)   To sell disposable syringes or permanent type hypodermic needles or
hypodermic syringes, except when prescribed by a licensed physician or
veterinarian. (Ord. No. 595 §1, 8-3-2004)
   (d)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty
of a Class A offense, which is punishable by a fine not to exceed Seven Hundred
and Fifty ($750.00) and/or up to sixty (60) days in jail; provided however, any
person convicted of illegal possession of one and a half (1.5) ounce or less of
marijuana and/or possession of related paraphernalia shall be guilty of a Class
B offense, which is punishable by a fine not to exceed Two-Hundred Dollars
($200.00). Title 63, O.S. §420 B.
(Ord. No. 226, §§ 1, 2, 1-18-77; Ord. No. 515, § 1, 2-7-95)
Cross reference--Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, §
13-9.
State law reference--Uniform Controlled Dangerous Substances Act, 63 O.S. § 2-
101 et seq. Title 63, O.S. §420 B.
Sec. 12-55. Liquid wastes.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
water or liquid waste on any public highway or street thereby endangering life,
limb, public property, or constituting a nuisance:
   (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel, oil, oil-based paint, or other
flammable or explosive liquids; or
   (b)   Any water-based paint or any wastewater containing hazardous
chemicals, antifreeze, fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether emulsified or not.
   The violation of any provision of this section shall be punishable as a
Class B offense. Each day any violation of this section exists shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 424, §§ 1, 3, 6-6-89)
Sec. 12-56. Skateboards.
   a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to skateboard or to place or use
any skateboard ramp in a commercially zoned area.
   b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or use any skateboard ramp
at any single-family residence.
(Ord. No. 438, Section 1, 4-3-90; Ord. No. 444 Section, 1, 6-19-90; 2012 Code;
Ord. No. 680, §1, §2, 02-19-2013; Ord. No. 693, §1, 04-15-2014; 2014 Code)
Sec. 12-57. Throwing lighted cigarette, litter from a vehicle.
A)   The operator of a vehicle, unless any other person in the vehicle admits
to or is identified as having committed the act, shall be liable pursuant to
subsection B of this section for any act of throwing, dropping, depositing, or
otherwise placing any lifter from a vehicle upon highways, roads, or public
property.
B)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of subsection A of this
section shall be guilty of a Class A offense punishable by a fine of not more
than Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($750.00) and up to sixty (60) days
imprisonment or both such fine and imprisonment.
C)   As used in this section, "litter' means any flaming or glowing substances
except those which by law may be placed upon highway rights-of-way, any
substance which may cause a fire, any bottles, cans, trash, garbage, or debris
of any kind. As used in this section, "litter' shall not include trash,
garbage, or debris placed beside a public road for collection by a garbage or
collection agency.
State law reference: Title 21, O.S. Section 1753.3 (2004 City Code)
Sec. 12-58. Transporting a handgun without a valid license.
A.   Notwithstanding the provisions in Section 1272 or 1289.13 In Title 21 of
the Oklahoma Statutes, it shall be unlawful for any person stopped pursuant to
a moving traffic violation on the City streets or highways to be transporting a
loaded pistol in the motor vehicle without a valid handgun license authorized
by the Oklahoma Self-Defense Act or valid license from another state, whether
the loaded firearm is concealed or unconcealed in the vehicle.
B.   Any person violating Section A. above shall be issued a traffic citation
in the amount of Seventy Dollars ($70.00), plus court costs for transporting
the firearm improperly.
C.   In addition to the traffic citation in Section B. above, the person may
also be given a ticket or arrested for any other violation of law.
(Ord. No. 679, §1, 01-15-2013)
Secs. 12-59--12-65. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. NOISE
Sec. 12-66. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Allowable level of noise means not more than ninety-five (95) decibels as
measured on the A scale of a General Radio Company No. 1551-B sound level
meter, or equivalent, stationed at a distance of not less than twenty (20) feet
to the side of a motor vehicle as such motor vehicle passes the sound level
meter, or is stationed not less than twenty (20) feet from a stationary motor
or engine.
   Motor vehicle means every vehicle, which is self-propelled.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-1)
Sec. 12-67. Exemptions.
   This article does not apply to emergency situations where life, health, or
property is at stake, or to those normal situations of community life where
noise is inherent and has been long accepted by the community, such as
activities during school recess, and at public parks and athletic contests.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-16)
Sec. 12-68. Horns and other signaling devices.
   The sounding of any horn or other signaling device on any motor vehicle on
any highway or public place of the city, except as specifically permitted or
required by law, or as a danger warning, and the sounding of any such device
for any unnecessary period of time is unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-3)
Sec. 12-69. Exhausts.
   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any stationary or portable
internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle except through a muffler in good
repair or other device which will effectively prevent loud or disturbing noises
there from above the allowable level of noise is unlawful; provided, that where
such stationary or portable internal combustion engine is enclosed within a
building used for industrial or commercial purposes, the allowable level of
noise shall be measured at the nearest point on the boundary of the property on
which such engine is located. This section shall not apply to aircraft or to
supporting ground equipment for aircraft.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-4)
Sec. 12-70. Mismanagement, misuse, repair of vehicles; deposit of automotive
fluids, lubricants, and other pollutants; salvage yards and vehicle storage.
   a)   The use of any motor vehicle, which, because of it being out of repair,
or because of it not being loaded properly, or because of the manner of its
operation creates a loud and disturbing noise, is unlawful. (Code 1976, § 10-
14-5)
   b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make mechanical or body repairs
to any vehicle, which is legally parked on a public street or right-of-way
between the hours of 8:00 pm and 8:00 am.
   c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, or permit any
automotive fluid, lubricant, or other pollutant to be deposited on any public
street, right-of-way, driveway, or any other location, which may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm drain
system, or waters of the U.S.
   d)   It shall be unlawful for any renter, landlord, or person in control of
any residential property to cause, allow, or permit a salvage yard on a
residential lot. The storage of more than two unused vehicles in an enclosed
yard shall constitute a salvage yard. For the purpose of this section, unused
vehicle shall mean any motor vehicle, which is not driven from the property
under its own power at least one time a week. (Effective May 18, 2006)
   e)   The violation of this section shall be a Class A offense carrying a
penalty of up to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) or sixty days (60)
imprisonment or both said fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation
occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 612, §1, 11-15-2005; Ord. No. 615, §1, 04-18-2006)
(Code Cross Reference - Chapter 9, Section 209)
Sec. 12-71. Loading, unloading, or opening of boxes.
   The creation of a loud and disturbing noise in connection with loading or
unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates,
and containers between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. is unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-6)
Sec. 12-72. Blowers.
   The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan, unless the noise
from such blower or power fan is adequately muffled, is unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-7)
Sec. 12-73. Whistles.
   The blowing of any whistle, except in conjunction with organized sports
events or school playground activities or as a warning of fire or danger or
upon request of proper city authorities, is unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-8)
Sec. 12-74. Loudspeakers, amplifiers, or noise devices for advertising.
   The using of any radio or television set, musical instrument, phonograph,
loudspeaker, sound amplifier, bell, drum, horn or other machine or device for
the producing or reproducing of sound directed upon public streets for the
purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to
any building, structure or tent is unlawful. Temporary exceptions for civic
events or for civic or religious organizations or for the playing of music
during the Christmas season only may be authorized by the city manager for such
periods of time and under such conditions as may be consistent with the public
interest.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-9)
Sec. 12-75. Radios, television sets, sound equipment, etc.
   The playing of any radio or television receiving set, musical instrument, or
other machine or device for producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as
to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants is
unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-10)
Sec. 12-76. Yelling, shouting, making noise on public rights-of-ways, or on
certain private property.
No person, while on public property, public right of way or private property
adjacent to any property described herein, shall willfully make, or assist in
making noise, whether by use of loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other similar
device for reproducing sound, or otherwise yell, hoot, or shout, so as to
disturb the comfort, peace, solemnity, repose, or good of the order of any:
   (a)   public or private school or class thereof while in session;
   (b)   person(s) inside of their home, residence, or dwelling;
   (c)   person(s) engaged in the judicial function of the municipal court
while in session; or
   (d)   congregation or assembly of persons gathered for religious worship or
ceremony within a church building.
(Ord. No. 577, §1, 10-15-2002; Code 1976, § 10-14-11)
Sec. 12-77. Domestic pets.
   The keeping of any domestic bird or animal, which emits frequent or long
continued noise so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the
neighboring inhabitants is unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-12)
Sec. 12-78. Tools.
   The use in a residential zone of hand or power tools, or machinery,
resulting in loud and disturbing noises between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. is
unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-13)
Sec. 12-79. Hawkers, peddlers, and vendors.
   The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers, or vendors on any public
street or place or on private property so closely adjacent thereto that thereby
crowds may be collected, and traffic obstructed thereon is unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-14)
Sec. 12-80. Sirens.
   The sounding of sirens on escort service, except where specifically required
or permitted by law and not for the purpose of calling attention to a vehicle
or caravan is unlawful. The sounding of a siren on an ambulance, except when
operated in response to an emergency call and when reasonably necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof is unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 10-14-15)
Sec. 12-81. Loitering.
It shall be unlawful for any person, to loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon
any private property where a "no loitering" sign or signs have been posted.
(Ord. 655, § 1, 10-19-2010)
Code Cross Reference, Chapter 21, Section
21-29.
Sec. 12-82. Prohibited Noise.
   a)   Definitions:
   a.   Person means any individual, association, partnership, or corporation
and includes any officer, employee, or agent of said individuals or entities.
   b.   Noise means any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or causes or
tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on a human of
reasonable or normal sensitivities.
   b)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or leases commercial
property, retail space or other business space that is within five hundred feet
of a residential lot, to permit or allow any other person using said property
during regular business hours to make or cause noise between the hours of 8:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. No. 694, §1, 04-15-2014)
Secs. 12-83--12-95. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
Sec. 12-96. Larceny.
   The taking of personal property accomplished by fraud or stealth, and with
the intent to deprive another thereof, is hereby defined as an offense.
(Code 1976, § 10-10-1; Ord. No. 410, § 1, 6-21-88)
State law reference--Larceny, 21 O.S. § 1701 et seq.
Sec. 12-97. Fraud.
   It is unlawful for any person, with intent to cheat and defraud, obtain, or
attempt to obtain from any person, firm or corporation any money, property, or
valuable thing, by means or by use of any trick or deception, or false or
fraudulent representation or statement or pretense, or by any other means or
instrument or device, commonly called a confidence game.
(Code 1976, § 10-10-2)
State law reference--Fraud, 21 O.S. § 1500 et seq.
Sec. 12-98. Altering price labels; switching merchandise from containers.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, transfer, or remove any
label, price tag, marking, indicator of value or other marking which aids in
determining value affixed to any merchandise displayer, held, stored, or
offered for sale in a retail mercantile establishment and to attempt to
purchase such merchandise personally or in concert with another at less than
retail price with the intention of depriving the merchant of the retail price
of such merchandise.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer any merchandise
displayed, held, stored, or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment from the container or place in which such merchandise is
displayed to any other container or place with the intention of depriving the
merchant of the retail price of such merchandise.
(Ord. No. 361, § 1, 12-17-85)
Sec. 12-99. Bad checks.
   (a)   In this section," false or bogus check" includes check or order given
for money or property or in any case, where the maker received a benefit or
thing of value, which is not honored on account of insufficient funds of the
maker to pay same, as against the maker or drawer thereof. The making, drawing,
uttering or delivering of a check, draft or order, payment of which is refused
by the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and the
knowledge of insufficient funds in, or credit with, such bank or other
depository; provided, such maker or drawer shall not have paid the drawee
thereof the amount due thereon, together with the protest fees, within five (5)
days from the date the same is presented for payment; and provided, further,
that the check or order is presented for payment within thirty (30) days after
the same is delivered and accepted.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to obtain from any other person any
money, property, or thing of value by means or use of any false or bogus check,
or by any other written, printed, or engraved instrument.
(Code 1976, § 10-10-4)
State law reference--Bad checks, 21 O.S. § 1541.3 et seq.
Sec. 12-100. Unlawful use of credit card.
   (a)   It is unlawful for a person to use a credit card for the purpose of
obtaining property or services with knowledge that:
   (1) The card is stolen or forged; or
   (2) The card has been revoked or canceled; or
   (3) For any other reason, the use of the card is unauthorized.
   (b)   In this section "credit card" means an identification card or device
issued to a person by a business organization, which permits such person to
purchase or obtain goods, property, or services on the credit of such
organization.
(Code 1976, § 10-10-5)
State law reference--Credit card crimes, 21 O.S. § 1500.1 et seq.
Sec. 12-101. Receiving stolen property.
   (a)   In this section:
   (1)   Dealer means a person in the business of buying or selling goods.
   (2)   Movable property means property the location of which can be changed,
including things growing on, affixed to, or found in land, and documents
although the rights represented thereby have No physical location.
   (3)   Receiving means acquiring possession, control, or title or lending on
the security of the property.
   (b)   It is unlawful for a person to receive, retain, or dispose of movable
property of another knowing that it has been stolen, or believing that it has
probably been stolen, unless the property is received, retained, or disposed
with purpose to restore it to the owner.
   (c)   The requisite knowledge of belief is presumed in the case of a dealer
who:
   (1)   Is found in possession or control of property stolen from two (2) or
more persons on separate occasions; or
   (2)   Has received stolen property in another transaction within the year
proceeding the transaction charged; or
   (3)   Being a dealer in property of the sort received, acquires it for a
consideration, which he knows, is far below its reasonable value.
(Code 1976, § 10-10-6)
State law reference--Receiving stolen property, 21 O.S. § 1713.
Sec. 12-102. Injury to motor vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, loiter in or upon, deface or
injure, or meddle with any machinery or parts of, any automobile or motor
vehicle without the consent of the owner of such automobile or motor vehicle.
It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that the actor
reasonably believed that the owner would have consented to the operation had he
known of it.
(Code 1976, § 10-10-7)
State law references--Injuring or molesting motor vehicles, 21 O.S. § 1787 et
seq.; car theft, 21 O.S. § 1720.
Sec. 12-103. Criminal mischief.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (1)   Damage tangible property of another purposely, recklessly, or by
negligence in the employment of fire, explosives, or other dangerous
instrumentalities or substances; or
   (2)   Purposely or recklessly tamper with tangible property of another so as
to endanger a person or property; or
   (3)   Purposely or recklessly cause another to suffer from pecuniary loss by
deception or threat; or
   (4)   Purposely or recklessly damage or destroy any street marker, or
traffic control sign of this city; or
   (5)   Purposefully remove or recklessly damage or destroy any sign of the
city notifying the public of condemnation or nuisance abatement proceedings.
(Code 1976, § 10-10-8; Ord. No. 399, § 1, 11-17-87)
State law reference--Malicious mischief, 21 O.S. § 1751 et seq.
Sec. 12-104. Trespass.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a trespass within this
city upon either public or private property.
   (b)   Without constituting a limitation on subsection (a) of this section,
any of the following acts shall be deemed a trespass:
   (1)   An entry, by vehicle or person, upon the premises or any part thereof,
of another in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing, by an owner or occupant thereof; or
   (2)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
or
   (3)   An entry into any vehicle made without the consent of the person
having the right of possession or control thereof, or a failure to leave such
vehicle after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
   (c)   The burden of showing permission rests on party entering. In all cases
where such entry is made, except on unrestricted public parking, and is
complained of by the owner or legal occupant of the premises or is observed by
a police officer who files charges against the party so entering, the burden is
put upon the person making the entry to show that permission for such entry was
given.
(Code 1976, §§ 10-15-1, 10-15-2; Ord. No. 346, § 1, 7-3-84)
State law reference--Trespass, 21 O.S. § 1835.
Sec. 12-105. Theft or destruction of library materials.
   (a)   As used in this section:
   (1)   Library facility means any:
   a.   Public library; or
   b.   Library of an educational, historical, or eleemosynary
   c.   Museum; or
   d.   Repository of public or institutional records.
   (2)   Library material means any book, plate, picture, photograph,
engraving, painting, drawing, map, newspaper, magazine, pamphlet, broadside,
manuscript, document, letter, record, microform, sound recording, audiovisual
materials in any format, magnetic or other tapes, catalog cards or catalog
records, electronic data processing records, computer software, artifacts, or
other documentary, written or printed materials regardless of physical form or
characteristics, belonging or on loan to, or otherwise in the custody of a
library facility.
   (3)   Demand means either actual notice to the possessor of any library
materials or the mailing of written notice to the possessor at the last address
of record, which the library facility has for said person, demanding the return
of the designated library materials. If demand is made by mail, it shall be
deemed to have been given as of the date the notice is mailed by the library
facility.
   (b)   Any person shall be guilty, upon conviction, of library theft who
willfully:
   (1)   Removes or attempts to remove any library material from the premises
of a library facility without authority; or
   (2)   Mutilates, destroys, alters, or otherwise damages, in whole or in
part, any library materials; or
   (3)   Fails to return any library materials, which have been lent to said
person by the library facility, within seven (7) days after demand has been
made for the return of the library materials.
   (c)   A person convicted of library theft shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) or restitution, or both fine and
restitution to the library facility including payment of all expenses incurred
by the library facility as a result of the actions of the offender.
(Ord. No. 412, §§ 1, 3, 9-6-88)
Sec. 12-106. Shoplifting; definitions.
   (a)   As used in this Section:
   (1)   "Mercantile establishment" means any mercantile place of business in,
at, or from which goods, wares and merchandise are sold, offered for sale, or
delivered from and sold at retail or wholesale;
   (2)   "Merchandise" means all goods, wares and merchandise offered for sale
or displayed by a merchant;
   (3)   "Wrongful taking" includes stealing or any other wrongful
appropriation of merchandise.
   (b)   It shall be an offense for any person to conceal un-purchased
merchandise, either on the premises or outside the premises of any mercantile
establishment. Said act of concealment by any person shall constitute intention
to commit a wrongful taking of such merchandise from a merchant.
(Ord. No. 478, § 1, 8-4-92)
State law reference--22 O.S. §1341 et seq.
Secs. 12-107--12-115. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. GAMBLING
Sec. 12-116. Prohibited generally.
   (a)   Except as authorized by state law, no person shall bet or wager,
within the city, any money, thing or consideration of value, either directly or
by means of books, cards, machines, or any other device, apparatus,
paraphernalia, or any kind, upon the result of any trial of speed, or power of
endurance, or pretended trial of speed, or power of endurance of any animal, or
upon any other event.
   (b)   Any person who opens, causes to be opened, conducts, or carries on,
whether for hire or not, any poker, roulette, crap game, banking or percentage
game, or any gambling game played with dice, cards, or any device, for money,
checks, credits or any thing of value, or who deals for those engaged in any
such game shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1976, §§ 10-5-1, 10-5-11)
Sec. 12-117. Establishments.
   Except as authorized by state law, no person, either as owner, lessor, or
occupant, shall occupy, use, or permit to be used or occupied, or consent to
the use, or occupancy of any room, tenement, shed, booth, building, ground or
plot of ground, or any part thereof, within the city, for the purpose or with
the intent to use, occupy the same, or any part thereof, for receiving,
accepting, or offering to receive, or accept, or place any bet, or wager of any
money, thing or concept, or place any bet, or wager of any money, thing or
consideration of value, offered, received, or accepted, either directly or by
means of any mutuels, books, apparatus, paraphernalia, machines or other
devices, on the result or pretended result of any trial of speed, or power of
endurance of any animal or any other kind of event.
(Code 1976, § 10-5-2)
Sec. 12-118. Paraphernalia.
   Except as authorized by state law, no person shall have in his possession,
keep, exhibit, use or employ, any device, paraphernalia, books, machines, or
instrument of any kind, or character, within the city for the purpose of:
   (1)   Receiving, accepting, recording, or registering any bet or wager; or
   (2)   Selling or making of any books, pools or mutuels; or
   (3)   Becoming custodian, or depository for gain, hire, or reward of any
money, property, thing, or consideration of value, bet or wagered or contrary
to this article.
(Code 1976, § 10-5-3; 2004 City Code)
Sec. 12-119. Taking bets.
   No person shall accept, receive, register, record, forward, or pretend to
receive, register, records, or forward any bet, wager, or reward, to or for any
race, course, or place where any contest or trial of speed, or power of
endurance of any animal.
(Code 1976, §§ 10-5-3, 10-5-4)
Sec. 12-120. Messages.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, to intentionally, or knowingly
transmit, or deliver any message, or information within the city, to or from,
or for the use of any person engaged in any manner, either as principal or
agent, in receiving, accepting, making, or placing any bet, or wager, upon any
horse race, or pretended horse race, or any contest or trial of speed, or power
of endurance of any animal, or the result of any pretended trial of speed, or
power of endurance of any animal. Each message, or pretended message accepted,
or received by such person for transmission or delivery shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
(Code 1976, § 10-5-5)
Sec. 12-121. Frequenting gambling establishments.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to frequent or loiter in or about any
place where any bet, or wager of money, or property or thing or consideration
of value is being bet, wagered, or made directly or by means of any books,
mutuels, machines, apparatus or other devices upon the result of any trial of
speed, or power of endurance, or contest of animals, or any pretended trial of
speed, or power of endurance, or contest of animals, or any other event.
(Code 1976, § 10-5-6)
Sec. 12-122. Slot machines.
   (a)   In this section "slot machine" means any machine, which may be played
by others for money, property, checks, credits, or representative of value, or
any machine which shall vend merchandise in varying quantities, such quantities
in any way depending upon chance. "Slot machine" does not include vending
machines, which only store merchandise and deliver a stated amount upon deposit
of a coin.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in control of a
slot machine. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any coin or slug
for the purpose of playing a slot machine.
   (c)   It shall be the duty of police officers to seize and take charge of
any slot machine operated or used in violation hereof and convey the same to
the municipal judge. If the judge finds, after a hearing that such machine was
used in violation of any provisions hereof, he shall declare same a nuisance
and unlawful and shall order it destroyed forthwith in manner and form as he
shall prescribe.
(Code 1976, §§ 10-5-7, 10-5-8, 10-5-10)
Sec. 12-123. Card raffles, etc.
   No person shall exhibit or be in charge of any card raffle or lottery or
game of chance, except as permitted by state law.
(Code 1976, § 10-5-8)
ARTICLE VI. FIREWORKS
Sec. 12-124. Possession and use prohibited.
   The possession or use of fireworks within the city is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 387, § 1, 7-21-87)
Sec. 12-125. Definitions.
   The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any combustible or explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article,
prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank
cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, or toy gun in which explosives
are used, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, dagobombs,
sparklers or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing
any explosive or flammable compound, or any tablets, or other device containing
any explosive substance, except that the term "fireworks" shall not include toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper caps manufactured
in accordance with United Stated Interstate Commerce Commission regulations for
packing and shipping of toy paper caps are used and toy pistol caps
manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of which shall be permitted
at all times. Nothing in this article shall be construed as applying to the
possession or use of signals necessary for the safe operation public or private
transportation or applying to the military or naval forces of the United States
or of this state, or to peace officers, or to prohibiting possession or use of
blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical, or athletic events.
(Ord. No. 387, § 1, 7-21-87)
Sec. 12-126. Manufacture, sale, and discharge of fireworks.
   (a)   The manufacture of fireworks is prohibited within the municipality.
   (b)   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this article, it shall be
unlawful for any person to possess, assemble, store, transport, receive, keep,
sell, offer or have in his possession with intent to sell, use, discharge,
cause to be discharged, ignite, detonate, fire or otherwise set in action any
fireworks of any description except as provided in subsections (c) through (g)
herein.
   (c)   The fire chief may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the
granting of permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Such permits may be granted upon application to the fire chief
after approval of the chief of police and the filing of such insurance by the
applicant as provided in section 12-127. Every such display shall be handled by
a competent operator approved by the fire chief and the chief of police and
shall be of such composition, character, and so located, discharged, or fired
as in the opinion of the fire chief, after proper inspection, and of the chief
of police, shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or
persons.
   (d)   Application for permits shall be made in writing at least five (5)
days in advance of the date of the display. After such privilege has been
granted, sale, possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for such display
shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted hereunder shall be
transferable.
   (e)   The sale, possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for display
purposes shall be conducted so as to be reasonably safe to persons and
property. Evidence that the sale, possession, use and distribution of fireworks
for display purposes has been conducted in accordance with the applicable
standard specified shall be evidence that such sale, possession, use and
distribution of fireworks for display purposes provide reasonable safety to
persons and property.
   (f)   The fire chief may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the use
of model rockets. The design, construction, and use of model rockets shall be
reasonably safe to persons and property. Evidence that the design,
construction, and use of model rockets is in accordance with the applicable
standard specified shall be evidence that such design, construction, and use
provide reasonable safety to persons and property.
   (g)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport fireworks through the
City of The Village unless said fireworks are kept at all times in its original
packaging.
(Ord. No. 387, § 1, 7-21-87; 2006 City Code)
Sec. 12-127. Insurance required.
   The permittee shall furnish a certificate of insurance in an amount deemed
adequate by the chief of the fire department or his designated representative
for the payment of all damages, which may be caused either to a person or
persons or to property by reason of the permitted display and arising from any
acts of the permittee, his agents, employees, or subcontractors. Said amounts
shall be not less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for any one
person, fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for any one accident, and twenty-
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for property damage.
(Ord. No. 387, § 1, 7-21-87)
Sec. 12-128. Disposal of unfired fireworks.
   Any fireworks that remain unfired after the display is concluded shall be
immediately disposed of in a way that is safe for that particular type of
fireworks remaining.
(Ord. No. 387, § 1, 7-21-87)
Sec. 12-129. Seizure of fireworks.
   The presence of any fireworks within the jurisdiction of the city in
violation of this article is hereby declared to be a common and public
nuisance. The fire chief is directed and required to seize, remove and cause to
be safely destroyed at the expense of the owner any fireworks found in
violation of this article and any officer of the fire department or any police
officer of the city or any other duly constituted peace officer is empowered to
stop the transportation of and detain any fireworks found being transported
illegally or to close any building where any fireworks are found stored
illegally until the fire chief can be notified in order that such fireworks may
be seized and destroyed in accordance with the terms of this section.
(Ord. No. 387, § 1, 7-21-87)
Sec. 12-130. Use of property.
   Any person who knowingly permits others to possess or use fireworks on
property owned, possessed, occupied, or under his control or supervision is
guilty of an offense.
(Ord. No. 387, § 1, 7-21-87)
Sec. 12-131. Responsibility for acts of minors.
   Any adult person who knowingly permits any minor within his or her lawful
control, supervision, or custody to use or possess fireworks is guilty of an
offense.
(Ord. No. 387, § 1, 7-21-87)
Sec. 12-132. Right of entry to enforce article.
   The fire chief or any member of the fire department of the city is hereby
authorized to enter any building, dwelling, or outbuilding where the unlawful
presence of fireworks is suspected in order to inspect the same for the
presence of such fireworks.
Sec. 12-133. Certain signal flares, torpedoes, and rockets exempt from article.
   This article shall not apply to signal flares or rockets for military or
police use.
(Ord. No. 387, § 1, 7-21-87)
Secs. 12-134, 12-135. Reserved.
ARTICLE VII.
WATER CONSERVATION AND WATER RATIONING
 
WHEREAS, The City of Oklahoma City has developed a Water Conservation Plan to
provide guidance for implementation of water conservation strategies and to
fulfill the additional provisions outlined in a water settlement agreement
between the State of Oklahoma, the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma, the Chickasaw
Nation, and The City of Oklahoma City; and
WHEREAS, as a component of the agreement, the City of Oklahoma has updated its
Water Conservation Plan to generally follow the American Water Works
Association (AWWA) conservation standards; and
WHEREAS, the City of The Village has been asked by the City of Oklahoma City to
adopt either its own Water Conservation Plan or to adopt Oklahoma City's Water
Conservation Plan.
Sec. 12-136. Adoption of Water Conservation Plan.
   The City of The Village hereby adopts by reference the Water Conservation
Plan as approved by the City of Oklahoma City on July 5, 2017, and as may be
amended from time to time.
Sec. 12-137. Water Rationing.
   It shall be unlawful for any resident, business, or person in control of any
premises to violate the water use regulations promulgated from time to time by
the City of Oklahoma as follows:
   1)   Stage 1: Mandatory Odd/Even Lawn Watering. Mandatory odd/even lawn
watering is in place year-round. All lawn watering systems using sprinkler
devices (hand watering with a hose is permitted any day) shall be limited to
odd/even lawn watering based upon the location address. Odd number addresses
water lawns and landscaping on odd number calendar days. Even number addresses
water lawns and landscaping on even number calendar days. This applies to all
customer classifications: single family residences, duplexes, triplexes,
homeowner association general properties, commercial, industrial, government,
etc.
   2)   Stage 2: Fixed Two {'{'}2) Day Lawn Watering. In the event lake
capacities are 50 percent or less full, mandatory fixed two (2) day per week
lawn watering is implemented. In addition to all voluntary indoor water
conservation efforts, outdoor lawn watering systems using sprinkler devices
(hand watering with a hose is permitted any day) shall be limited to fixed two
(2) day per week lawn watering. Odd number single family residences water lawns
and landscaping on Saturdays and Wednesdays. Even number single family
residences water lawns and landscaping on Sundays and Thursdays. All other
customer classifications such as: duplexes, triplexes, homeowner association
general properties, commercial, industrial, government, etc.; water lawns and
landscaping on Tuesdays and Fridays.
   3)   Stage 3: Fixed One (I) Day Lawn Watering. In the event lake capacities
are 45 percent or less full, mandatory fixed one (1) day per week lawn watering
is implemented. In addition to all voluntary indoor water conservation efforts,
outdoor lawn watering systems using sprinkler devices (hand watering with a
hose is permitted any day) shall be limited to fixed one (1) day per week lawn
watering. Single family residences with addresses ending in 1 or 3, shall water
lawns and landscaping on Saturdays. Single family residences with Mandatory
Odd/Even Lawn watering addresses ending in 5, 7, or 9, shall water lawns and
landscaping on Wednesdays. Single family residences with addresses ending in 0
or 2, shall water lawns and landscaping on Sundays. Single family residences
with addresses ending in 4, 6, or 8, shall water on Thursdays. Duplexes,
triplexes, and homeowner association general properties shall water on
Tuesdays. Commercial, industrial, government, etc.; shall water lawns and
landscaping on Fridays.
   4)   Stage 4: Hand Watering Garden & Flower Beds Only, Commercial Car Washes
with Water Recycling Operations Only. In the event lake capacities are 40
percent or less full, only hand watering of garden and flower beds is
permitted. In addition to voluntary indoor water conservation efforts,
individual water customers at all service locations, regardless of street
address, may continue to hand water garden and flower beds only. This applies
to all customer classifications: single family residences, duplexes, triplexes,
homeowner association general properties, golf courses, commercial, industrial,
government, etc., except commercial car washes. Only commercial car washes that
utilize water recycling systems will be permitted to operate.
   5)   Stage 5: Ban All Outdoor Watering. In the event lake capacities are 35
percent or less full, all outdoor watering is banned. Individual water
customers at all service locations, regardless of street address, are
prohibited from all outdoor watering and/ or washing of vehicles. This applies
to all customer classifications: single family residences, duplexes, triplexes,
homeowner association general properties, golf courses, commercial, industrial,
government, etc.
(Ord. No. 372, 08-19-1986; 2018 City Code 11-19-2018)
Secs. 12-137--12-149. Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. CURFEW FOR MINORS
Sec. 12-150. Purpose and intent.
   The public purpose of this ordinance is to protect juveniles from nocturnal
dangers, enhance parental supervision and responsibility for juveniles and to
protect the public at large.
(Ord. No. 513, §1, 10-4-94)
Sec. 12-151. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Curfew hours means:
   (a)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, or Friday; and
   (b)   1:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
   Emergency means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   Establishment means any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
   Guardian means:
   (a)   a person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
juvenile; or
   (b)   A public or private agency with which a juvenile has been placed by a
court.
   Juvenile means any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   Parent means a person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or
stepparent of another person.
   Public place means any place to which the public or a substantial group of
the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and retail establishments.
   Remain means to:
   (a)   linger or stay; or
   (b)   Fail to leave the premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   Operator means any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
   Responsible adult means any person having, assuming, or charged with
permanent and/or temporary care and/or custody of a juvenile, including, but
not limited to:
   (a)   Any legal guardian or adult exercising legal guardianship over a
juvenile;
   (b)   An adult who stands in loco parentis to a juvenile;
   (c)   Any person to whom legal custody of a juvenile has been given by order
of a court;
   (d)   Any adult, who has, assumes, or is charged with the care and/or
custody of a juvenile at the request of, or on behalf of, a parent, guardian,
loco parentis, or person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a
court.
   (e)   Any adult, who has, assumes, or is charged with the care and/or
custody of a juvenile at the request of, or on behalf of, another parent.
   Knowingly permit means the parent, other responsible adult and/or operator
as defined herein is aware of the fact the juvenile is in violation of the
curfew hours or that said person by exercise of reasonable care would have
known that the juvenile is in violation of the curfew hours.
(Ord. No. 513, §1, 10-4-94)
Sec. 12-152. Offenses.
   (a)   A juvenile commits an offense if he/she remains in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the corporate limits of the City of
The Village during curfew hours.
   (b)   A parent and/or other responsible adult of a juvenile commits an
offense if:
   (1)   He/she knowingly permits or allows the juvenile to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the corporate city
limits of the City of The Village during curfew hours.
   (2)   the parent and/or other responsible adult of a juvenile has twice
previously acted within any consecutive six (6) month period so as to knowingly
permit or allow said juvenile to remain in any public place or on the premises
of any establishment within the corporate limits of the City of The Village
during curfew hours. Every subsequent violation thereof will constitute a
separate violation.
   (c)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly permits or allows a juvenile to remain upon the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours.
(Ord. No. 513, §1, 10-4-94)
Sec. 12-153. Defenses.
   (a)   It is a defense to prosecution under Section 12-152 that the juvenile
was at the time in question:
   (1)   accompanied by the juvenile's parent or responsible adult;
   (2)   on an errand at the direction of the juvenile's parent or responsible
adult, without any detour or stop;
   (3)   in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (4)   engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (5)   involved in an emergency;
   (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the juvenile's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the juvenile's presence;
   (7)   Attending, going to, or returning home, without any detour or stop,
from an official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised
by adults, or an event sponsored by the City of The Village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
juvenile;
   (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly or other rights protected by the United States or the
Oklahoma Constitution; or
   (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law.
   (b)   It is a defense to prosecution under Section
12-152 (c) that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the police department that a juvenile was present on the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. No. 513, §1, 10-4-94)
Sec. 12-154. Enforcement.
   (a)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
Section
12-153 is present.
   (b)   Absent an interlocal agreement with the district court for the
municipal court to exercise jurisdiction over juveniles under eighteen (18)
years of age under Section
12-152 pursuant to 10 O.S. § 1102(E) as amended by H.B. 2640 of the 1994
Regular Session of the Oklahoma Legislature, the municipal court must refer all
alleged juvenile violations to the Juvenile Bureau of the District Attorney's
Office.
(Ord. No. 513, §1, 10-4-94)
State law reference-Title 10, O.S. §1102 (E); H.B. 2640, 1994.
Sec. 12-155. Penalty.
   (a)   A person who violates a provision of this Article is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine not to exceed two hundred ($200.00) dollars, plus costs.
   (b)   The municipal court's jurisdiction over a juvenile who violated
Section
12-152 of this Article shall be expressly subject to Title 10 of the Oklahoma
Statutes, as amended by H.B. 2640 of the 1994 Regular Session of the Oklahoma
Legislature.
Sec. 12-156. Truant children.
   1)   It shall be unlawful for any child subject to compulsory school
attendance by law and who is within the corporate City limits of The Village,
who is over the age of 12 years and under the age of 18 years, and who has not
finished four years of high school work, to neglect or refuse to attend and
comply with the rules of some public, private or other school, or receive an
education by other means for the full term the schools of the district are in
session; and
   2)   Any child subject to compulsory school attendance who is absent without
lawful excuse is truant and guilty of an offense pursuant to this Section.
   3)   Defense: It is a defense under this Section that the child:
   A.   Is prevented from attending school by reason of mental or physical
disability, to be determined by the board of education of the district upon a
certificate of the school physician or public health physician, or, if no such
physician is available, a duly licensed and practicing physician;
   B.   Is excused from attendance at school, due to an emergency, by the
principal teacher at the school in which such child is enrolled, at the request
of the parent, guardian, custodian, or other person having control of such
child;
   C.   Has attained his or her sixteenth birthday and is excused from
attending school by written joint agreement between:
   1.   The school administrator of the school district where the child attends
school; and
   2.   The parent, guardian, or custodian of the child.
   D.   Provided, further, that no child shall be excused from attending school
by such joint agreement between a school administrator and the parent,
guardian, or custodian of the child unless and until it has been determined
that such action is for the best interest of the child and/or the community,
and that said child shall thereafter be under the supervision of the parent,
guardian or custodian until the child has reached the age of 18 years: or
   E.   It is also a defense under this section if any such child is excused
from attending school for the purpose of observing religious holy days if
before the absence, the parent, guardian, or person having custody or control
of the student submits a written request for the excused absence.
   4)   Temporary detention of truant children.
   A.   An attendance officer, any school administrator, or designee of the
school administrator who is employed by the school, or any peace officer may,
except for children receiving an education by other means as allowed by law,
temporarily detain and assume temporary custody of any child subject to
compulsory full-time education, during hours in which school is actually in
session, who is found away from the home of such child and within the school
district that they are truant from and who is absent from school without lawful
excuse and there is prior approval from the school district for temporary
detention and custody pursuant to this Section.
   A.   Any person temporarily detaining and assuming temporary custody of a
child pursuant to this section shall immediately deliver the child either to
the parent, guardian, or other person having control or custody of the child,
or to the school from which the child is absent without valid excuse, or to a
non-secure youth service or community center servicing the school district, or
to a community intervention center, as defined by State law.
   B.   The temporary custody or detention provided by this section shall be
utilized as a means of reforming and returning the truant students to school
and shall not be used as a pretext for investigating criminal matters. The
temporary custody or detention herein provided is a limited type of detention
and is not justified unless there are specific facts causing an attendance
officer or other authorized person to reasonably suspect that a truancy
violation is occurring and that the person the officer intends to detain is a
truant.
   5)   Penalties.
   A.   Each day the child remains out of school shall constitute a separate
offense.
   B.   At the trial of any person charged with violating the provisions of
this section, the attendance records of the child or ward may be presented in
court by any authorized employee and/or duly authorized attendance officer of
the school.
(Ord. No. 696, §1, 05-20-2014) (State law reference, 10A O.S. §2-2-103; O.S.
Title 70, §10-109)
ARTICLE IX. YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO
Secs 12-157--12-199 Reserved.
State law reference--Title 37 O.S. Supp. 1995, Sections 600.2 et seq.
Sec. 12-200. Definitions.
   The terms used in this Article shall have the following meanings unless the
context clearly indicates another meaning:
   Person means an individual, firm, fiduciary, partnership, corporation,
trust, or association, however formed;
   Proof of age means a driver license, license for identification only, or
other generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual
as twenty-one (21) years of age or older and contains a photograph or other
likeness of the individual and appears on its face to be valid;
   Sample means a tobacco product distributed to members of the public at no
cost for the purpose of promoting the product;
   Tobacco product means any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption.
Sec. 12-201. Sale to minors prohibited.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, give or furnish in any manner
any tobacco product to another person who is under twenty-one (21) years of
age, or to purchase in any manner a tobacco product on behalf of any such
person. It shall not be unlawful for an employee under twenty-one (21) years of
age to handle tobacco products when required in the performance of the
employee's duties.
   (b)   A person engaged in the sale or distribution of tobacco products shall
demand proof of age from a prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary
person would conclude on the basis of appearance that the prospective purchaser
may be less than twenty-one (21) years of age. If an individual engaged in the
sale or distribution of tobacco products has demanded proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient who is not under twenty-one (21) years of
age, the failure to subsequently require proof of age shall not constitute a
violation of this subsection.
   (c)   If the sale is made by an employee of the owner of a store at which
tobacco products are sold at retail, the employee shall be guilty of the
violation and shall be subject to the fine.
   (d)   For purposes of determining the liability of a person controlling
franchises or business operations in multiple locations, for any violation of
subsection (a) or (b) of this section, each individual franchise or business
location shall be deemed a separate entity.
(Ord. No. 534, §1, 12-3-96; Ord. No. 618. §2, 7-18-2006; Title 37. O.S. §
600.3)
Sec. 12-202. Purchase or possession of tobacco products by minors prohibited.
   It is unlawful for a person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age to
purchase, accept receipt of, or have in their possession a tobacco product, or
to present or offer to any person any purported proof of age which is false,
fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, for the purpose of purchasing or
receiving any tobacco product. Provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful
for such a person to handle such tobacco product when required in the
performance of such person's duties.
(Ord. No. 534, §1, 12-3-96)
Sec. 12-203. Distribution of tobacco product samples to minors prohibited.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person or retailer to distribute tobacco
products or product samples to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   (b)   No person shall distribute tobacco products or product samples in or
on any public street, sidewalk, or park that is within three hundred (300) feet
of any playground, school, or other facility when the facility is being used
primarily by persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
(Ord. No. 534, §1, 12-3-96; Ord. No. 618, §2, 7-18-2006; Title 37. O.S. §
600.8)
Sec. 12-204. Sale of cigarettes in original, sealed package required.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell cigarettes except in the original,
sealed package in which they were placed by the manufacturer.
(Ord. No. 534, §1, 12-3-96)
Sec. 12-205. Display or sale of tobacco products-- Public access; Fines
   A)   It is unlawful for any person or retail store to display or offer for
sale tobacco products in any manner that allows public access to the tobacco
product without assistance from the person displaying the tobacco product or an
employee or the owner of the store. The provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to retail stores, which do not admit into the store persons under twenty-
one (21) years of age.
   B)   Any person who violates subsection A of this section, shall be subject
to a fine of not more than Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
   C)   Every person who sells or displays tobacco products at retail shall
post conspicuously and keep so posted at the place of business a sign as
specified by the ABLE Commission, stating the following: "IT'S THE LAW. WE DO
NOT SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE". The sign shall
also provide the toll-free number operated by the ABLE commission for the
purpose or reporting violations of the Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco
Act. Any person who violates this subsection shall be subject to a fine of not
more than Fifty Dollars ($50.00) for each day a violation occurs. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. The notice required by
this section shall be the only notice required to be posted or maintained in
any store that sells tobacco products at retail.
(Ord. No. 534, §1, 12-3-96; Ord. No. 618, §2, 7-18-2006; Title 37, O.S §
600.10A)
Sec. 12-206. Enforcement of Act; compliance checks.
A)   Any conviction for a violation of a municipal ordinance authorized by the
Prevention of Youth Access to Tobacco Act and any compliance checks by a
municipal police officer to subsection C of this section shall be reported in
writing to the ABLE Commission within thirty (30) days of such conviction or
compliance check. Such reports shall be compiled in the manner prescribed by
the ABLE Commission.
B)   For the purpose of determining second or subsequent violations, both the
offenses penalized by the ABLE Commission as administrative fines and the
offenses penalized by the city and reported to the ABLE Commission, shall be
considered together in such determination.
C)   Persons under twenty-one (21) years of age may be enlisted by the city to
assist in compliance checks and enforcement; provided, such persons may be used
to test compliance only if written parental consent has been provided. The city
is hereby authorized to conduct, pursuant to rules of the ABLE Commission,
compliance checks without prior notification to the ABLE Commission. This
subsection shall not apply to the use of persons under twenty-one (21) years of
age to test compliance if the compliance test is being conducted by or on
behalf of a retailer of cigarettes, as defined in Section 301 of Title 68 of
the Oklahoma Statutes, at any location the retailer of cigarettes is authorized
to sell cigarettes. Any other use of persons under twenty-one (21) years of age
to test compliance shall be unlawful and punishable by the assessment of an
administrative fine of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00).
(Title 37, O.S § 600.11)
Sec. 12-207. Penalty.
   A)   Except as otherwise provided in this Article, any person who violates
any provision of this Article shall be guilty of an offense and shall be
subject to a fine of:
   a.   not more than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the first offense,
   b.   not more than Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) for the second offense
within a two-year period,
   c.   not more than Three Hundred Dollars for a third or more offenses within
a two-year period following the first offense.
   B)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied
upon proof of age, shall be a defense to any action brought pursuant to Section
12-201 of this Article.
(Ord. No. 534, §1, 12-3-96; Ord. No. 618, §2, 7-18-2006; Title 37. O.S. § 600.3
C)
Secs. 12-208-12-249 Reserved
Article X: Smoking in Public Places and Indoor Workplaces
Sec.12-250. Legislative intent.
   The State Legislature by adopting the Smoking in Public Places Act intends
to preempt any other regulation promulgated to control smoking in public places
and to standardize laws that governmental subdivisions may adopt to control
smoking. Cities and towns may enact and enforce laws prohibiting and penalizing
conduct under provisions of this Article.
(Ord. No. 618, §1, 7-18-2006, State law reference - O.S. Title 63, § 1-1527.)
Sec. 12-251. Definitions.
   A.   As used in this Article:
   a.   "Educational facility" means a building owned, leased or under the
control of a public or private school system.
   b.   "Electronic Smoking Device," as used herein, means an electronic and/or
battery-operated device, the use of which may resemble smoking that can be used
to deliver an inhaled dose of nicotine or other substances. An Electronic
Smoking Device includes any such device, whether manufactured, distributed,
marketed, or sold as an electronic cigarette, also known as an e-cigarette, an
electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic
hookah, or any other product name or description which can be classified as an
Electronic Smoking Device, including Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems
(ENDS), and vapor products.
   c.   "Health facility" means an entity which provides health services,
including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, long-term care
facilities, kidney disease treatment centers, health maintenance organizations
and ambulatory treatment centers;
   d.   "Indoor workplace" means any indoor place of employment or employment-
type service for or at the request of another individual or individuals, or any
public or private entity, whether part-time or full-time and whether for
compensation or not. Such services shall include, without limitation, any
service performed by an owner, employee, independent contractor, agent,
partner, proprietor, manager, officer, director, apprentice, trainee,
associate, servant or volunteer. An indoor workplace includes work areas,
employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias,
hallways, any other spaces used or visited by employees, and all space between
a floor and ceiling that is predominantly or totally enclosed by walls or
windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows, stairways, or
the like. The provisions of this section shall apply to such indoor workplace
at any given time, whether or not work is being performed;
   e.   "Meeting" means a meeting as defined in the Oklahoma Open Meeting Act;
   f.   "Public body" means a public body as defined in the Oklahoma Open
Meeting Act;
   g.   "Public place" means an enclosed indoor area where individuals other
than employees are invited or permitted;
   h.   "Restaurant" means any eating establishment regardless of seating
capacity;
   i.   "Smoking" means the carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette,
pipe, or other lighted smoking device;
   j.   "Stand-alone bar", "stand-alone tavern", and "cigar bar" mean an
establishment that derives more than sixty percent (60%) of its gross receipts,
subject to verification by competent authority, from the sale of alcoholic
beverages and low-point beer and no person under twenty-one (21) years of age
is admitted, except for members of a musical band employed or hired as provided
in paragraph 2 of subsection B of Section 537 of Title 37 of the Oklahoma
Statutes and that is not located within, and does not share any common entryway
or common indoor area with, any other enclosed indoor workplace, including a
restaurant.
   k.   "Tobacco," as used herein, includes, but is not limited to, smoking
tobacco such as used in pipes, cigarettes, and cigars, and chewing or dipping
tobacco, such as snuff and chewing tobacco.
(Ord. No. 618, §1, 7-18-2006; Ord. No. 620, §1, 8-15-2006; 2014 City Code)
State law reference - O.S. Title 63, § 1-1522)
Sec. 12-252. Smoking in certain places prohibited-Exemptions
A.   Except as specifically provided in this Article, no person shall smoke in
a public place, in an indoor workplace, in any vehicle providing public
transportation, at a meeting of a public body, in a nursing facility licensed
pursuant to the Nursing Home Care Act, or in a childcare facility licensed
pursuant to the Oklahoma Child Care Facilities Licensing Act. A nursing
facility licensed pursuant to the Nursing Home Care Act may designate smoking
rooms for residents and their guests. Such rooms shall be fully enclosed,
directly exhausted to the outside, and shall be under negative air pressure so
that no smoke can escape when a door is opened, and no air is re-circulated to
nonsmoking areas of the building.
B.
   1.   Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 of this subsection, an
educational facility which offers an early childhood education program or in
which children in grades kindergarten through twelve are educated shall
prohibit smoking, the use of snuff, chewing tobacco or any other form of
tobacco product in the buildings and on the grounds of the facility by all
persons including, but not limited to, full-time, part-time, and contract
employees, during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., during the school
session, or when class or any program established for students is in session.
   2.   Career and technology centers may designate smoking areas outside of
buildings, away from general traffic areas and completely out of sight of
children under twenty-one (21) years of age, for use by adults attending
training courses, sessions, meetings or seminars.
   3.   An educational facility may designate smoking areas outside the
buildings for the use of adults during certain activities or functions,
including, but not limited to, athletic contests.
C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit educational
facilities from having more restrictive policies regarding smoking and the use
of other tobacco products in the buildings or on the grounds of the facility.
D.   A private residence is not a "public place" within the meaning of this
Article except that areas in a private residence that are used as a licensed
childcare facility during hours of operation are "public places" within the
meaning of this Article.
E.   An employer not otherwise restricted from doing so may elect to provide
smoking rooms where no work is performed except for cleaning and maintenance
during the time the room is not in use for smoking, provided each smoking room
is fully enclosed and exhausted directly to the outside, in such manner that no
smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area. No exhaust from a smoking
room shall be located within fifteen (15) feet of any entrance, exit or air
intake. If smoking is to be permitted in any space exempted in subsection F of
this section or in a smoking room pursuant to subsection G of this section,
such smoking space must either occupy the entire enclosed indoor space or, if
it shares the enclosed space with any nonsmoking areas, the smoking space shall
be fully enclosed, exhausted directly to the outside with no air from the
smoking space circulated to any nonsmoking area, and under negative air
pressure so that no smoke can drift or circulate into a nonsmoking area when a
door to an adjacent nonsmoking area is opened. Air from a smoking room shall
not be exhausted within fifteen (15) feet of any entrance, exit or air intake.
F.   This Article shall not prohibit smoking in:
   1.   Stand-alone bars, stand-alone taverns, or cigar bars;
   2.   The room or rooms where licensed charitable bingo games are being
operated, but only during the hours of operation of such games;
   3.   Up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the guest rooms at a hotel or other
lodging establishment;
   4.   Retail tobacco stores predominantly engaged in the sale of tobacco
products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental and in which no food or beverage is sold or served for consumption
on the premises;
   5.   Workplaces where only the owner or operator, of the workplace, or the
immediate family of the owner or operator, performs any work in the workplace,
and the workplace has only incidental public access;
   6.   Workplaces occupied exclusively by one or more smokers, if the
workplace has only incidental public access. "Incidental public access" means
that a place of business has only an occasional person, who is not an employee,
present at the business to transact business or make a delivery. It does not
include businesses that depend on walk-in customers for any part of their
business;
   7.   Private offices occupied exclusively by one or more smokers;
   8.   Workplaces within private residences, except that smoking shall not be
allowed inside any private residence that is used as a licensed childcare
facility during hours of operation;
   9.   A facility operated by a post or organization of past or present
members of the Armed Forces of the United States which is exempt from taxation
pursuant to Sections 501 (c)(8), 501 (c)(10) or 501 (c)(19) of the Internal
Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C., Section 501 (c)(8), 501 (c)(10) or 501 (c)(19), when
such facility is utilized exclusively by its members and their families and for
the conduct of post or organization nonprofit operations except during an event
or activity which is open to the public;
   10.   Any outdoor seating area of a restaurant; provided, smoking shall not
be allowed within fifteen (15) feet of any exterior public doorway or any air
intake of a restaurant; and
   11.   Medical research or treatment centers if smoking is integral to the
research or treatment.
G.   Restaurants shall be totally nonsmoking or may provide nonsmoking areas
and designated smoking rooms. Food and beverage may be served in such
designated smoking rooms, which shall be in a location, which is fully
enclosed, directly exhausted to the outside, under negative air pressure so
smoke cannot escape when a door is opened, and no air is re-circulated to
nonsmoking areas of the building. No exhaust from such room shall be located
within twenty-five (25) feet of any entrance, exit or air intake. Such room
shall be subject to verification for compliance with the provisions of this
subsection by the State Department of Health.   
(Ord. No. 618, §1, 7-18-2006; Ord. No. 620, §1, 8-15-2006, State law reference
- O.S. Title 63, § 1-1523.)
Sec. 12-253. Measures to prevent smoking in public places.
   (a)   The person who owns or operates a public place shall, at a minimum, do
the following in' order to prevent smoking in public places:
   (1)    Post signs at entrances to places where smoking is prohibited which
state that smoking is prohibited or that the indoor environment is free of
tobacco smoke; and
   (2)    Ask smokers to refrain from smoking upon observation of anyone
violating the provisions of this act.
(Ord. No. 618, §1, 7-18-2006; Ord. No. 620, §1, 8-15-2006, State law reference
- O.S. Title 63, § 1-1525.)
Sec. 12-256. Penalty.
Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this Article is guilty of an
offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less
than Ten Dollars ($10.00) and not more than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. No. 620, §1, 8-15-2006, State law reference - O.S. Title 21, § 1-1247.)
Sec. 12-257. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this subsection, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   1)   Indoor Area: means any indoor property owned or operated by the City,
The Village Development Authority ("TVDA"), or The Village Public Works
Authority ("VPWA"). An Indoor Area includes work areas, employee lounges,
restrooms, conference rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, any
other spaces used or visited by employees of the public, and all space between
and floor and ceiling that is predominately or totally enclosed by walls or
windows, regardless of doors, doorways, open or closed windows, stairways, or
the like. The provisions of this section shall apply to such indoor areas at
any given time, whether or not work is being performed.
   2)   Municipal Property: means any equipment, vehicle, building, and
property, including without limitation, Indoor Areas, Outdoor Areas, and
Recreational Areas that are currently or at any time in the future owned,
operated, and/or leased by the City, TVDA, or VPWA.
   3)   Outdoor Area: means any covered area, partially covered area, or area
open to the sky that is on property owned or operated by the City, TVDA, or
VPWA.
   4)   Recreational Area: means any area that is owned, controlled, or used by
the City, TVDA, or VPWA and open to the general public for recreational
purposes, regardless of any fee or age requirement. The term "Recreational
Area" includes, but is not limited to, parks, picnic areas, playgrounds, sports
fields, walking paths, gardens, hiking trails, bike paths, riding trail,
swimming pools, splash pads, roller and ice-skating rinks, and skateboard
parks.
   5)   Smoking: means the carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette,
pipe, or other lighted smoking device.
   6)   Smoke free: means to prohibit the use of Tobacco Products by anyone, at
any time, on Municipal Property.
   7)   Tobacco Product: means any product that contains tobacco and is
intended for human consumption or otherwise introduced into the human body,
which includes, but is not limited to, smoking tobacco, as used in pipes,
cigarettes, and cigars, and any form of chewing or dipping tobacco. Tobacco
Product does not include any product approved by the United Stated Food and
Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product.
   8)   Vapor Product: means noncombustible products, which may or may not
contain nicotine, which employ a mechanical heating element, battery,
electronic circuit, or other mechanism, regardless of shape or size, which can
be used to produce a vapor in a solution or other form. "Vapor products" shall
include any vapor cartridge or other container with or without nicotine or
other form that is intended to be used with an electronic cigarette, electronic
cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and
any vapor cartridge or other container of a solution, that may or may not
contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo or electronic device. (Ord.
No. 721, §1, 02-06-2017)
Sec. 12-258. Prohibition on the Use of Tobacco Products and Vapor Products on
Municipal Property.
   1)   All Municipal Property shall be entirely Smoke free. The use of Tobacco
Products and Vapor Products, in any form, by any person while in or on
Municipal Property, is prohibited.
   2)   The prohibition on the use of Tobacco Products and Vapor Products
described herein shall not apply to public streets, rights-of-way, and
sidewalks.
   3)   Nothing herein prohibits any person or entity from prohibiting the use
of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products in an area that is under the control of
that person or entity and in which smoking, and the use of Tobacco Products, or
Vapor Products, are prohibited by law.
   4)   No person or entity shall knowingly permit the use of Tobacco Products
or Vapor Products in an area that is under control of that person or entity and
in which smoking, and the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products, is
prohibited by law.
   5)   The use of a Tobacco Product or Vapor Product in violation of this
subsection 12-258 is a nuisance.
Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of any
provision of this subsection 12-258 regarding the use of Tobacco Products or
Vapor Products shall constitute a violation of this subsection 12-258. (Ord.
No. 721, §1, 02-06-2017)
State law reference: O.S. Title 21, §1247 (C)
Sec. 12-259. Posting.
   1)   For restrictions on the use of Tobacco Products and Vapor Products in
Indoor Areas, the City shall post a sign or decal, at least four inches by two
inches in size, at each entrance stating that the use of Tobacco Products and
Vapor Products are prohibited, or that the area is a tobacco-free and vapor-
free environment.
   2)   For restrictions on the use of Tobacco Products and Vapor Products in
Outdoor Areas, the City shall post weather-resistant signs, at least fifteen
inches by fifteen inches in size, with lettering of at least one inch, stating
that the use of Tobacco Products and Vapor Products is prohibited, or that the
area is a tobacco-free and vapor-free environment.
   3)   The City Manager, or his/her designee, shall be responsible for the
posting of signs on Municipal Property, both indoor and outdoor.
Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs shall not be a
defense to a charge of the use of Tobacco Products or Vapor Products in
violation of subsection
12-258.
(Ord. No. 721, §1, 02-06-2017)
Sec. 12-260. Violation and Penalty.
Any person who violates Section 12-258 of the Code is guilty of a misdemeanor,
shall be punished by a citation and a fine not of not less than Ten Dollars
($10.00) and not more than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. No. 721, §1, 02-06-2017)
Sec. 12-261. Enforcement.
Any police officer or code enforcement officer employed by the City is
authorized to issue a citation when said officer personally observes a
violation of subsection 12-258. Nothing herein shall prevent the City Council
of the Village or the City Attorney from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy a violation of subsection 12-258, including, but
not limited to, through administrative or judicial nuisance abatement
proceedings, criminal code enforcement proceedings, and suits for injunctive
relief.
(Ord. No. 721, §1, 02-06-2017)
Article XI. Remediation of Methamphetamine Labs
Sec. 12-300. Legislative Intent.
The contamination present in former methamphetamine labs can affect soil,
ground water, air, furniture, and structure materials, such as flooring, vents,
and walls. Many of the contaminants present during the methamphetamine
manufacturing process can be harmful if humans or pets are exposed to them. The
contaminants can cause health problems, including headaches, nausea, dizziness,
and skin and eye irritation and burns. Short-term exposures to high
concentrations of some of these chemicals are common to first responders, such
as fire departments or law enforcement officers first entering a lab. These
exposures may cause severe health problems including lung damage and chemical
burns to the body. This Article is intended to provide the regulations deemed
necessary to protect the public from the serious public health threats posed by
methamphetamine residues.
Sec. 12-301. Identification of public health threat, testing, remediation.
   a)   Any property or premises located in the City shall be considered a
potential threat to public health when chemicals and equipment used in the
production of methamphetamines have been seized by a local, state, or federal
law enforcement agency on the property.
   b)   The property owner of any such property shall take appropriate steps to
detect and remove chemical residues left by the production of methamphetamines,
including but not limited to the following:
   1)   Testing: After law enforcement agencies have completed their
investigation and hazardous materials cleanup of the subject property, the
owner of said property shall be responsible for engaging the services of a
qualified environmental testing company to determine if harmful levels of
contamination remain on the property. The environmental testing company
selected shall be subject to the approval by the City.
   2)   Contamination Limits: The property owner shall perform cleanup of the
property as provided below if tests performed by said environmental testing
company detect on said property contamination levels of more than five
micrograms of methamphetamine residue per square foot.
   3)   Remediation: Upon a finding that more than five micrograms of
methamphetamine residue are present on said property, the property owner shall
be responsible for the following:
   i.   Air out the structure - suitably ventilate the property for several
days before cleaning. The property owner shall open all the building's windows
and set up exhaust fans to circulate air out of the house. During this time,
the property shall remain off limits unless it is necessary to make short
visits to the property. After the initial airing out, the property owner shall
maintain good ventilation throughout the property's cleanup.
   ii.   Contamination removal and disposal:
   a)   Remove from the property all surfaces that are visibly contaminated,
discolored or stained and dispose of them in an approved landfill.
   b)   Remove and dispose of in an approved landfill any absorbent materials,
such as carpet and pad, drapes, and clothing that can accumulate the vapors
dispersed through the air during the methamphetamine production process.
   c)   Thoroughly clean all surfaces, such as walls, counters, floors, and
ceilings, etc. where the methamphetamine production process was conducted.
   d)   If a surface has visible contamination or staining, completely remove,
and replace that surface section. This could include removal and replacement of
wallboard, floor coverings, and counters. If this is not possible, intensive
cleaning, followed by the application of a physical barrier such as paint or
epoxy shall be required.
   e)   Replace all of the air filters in the ventilation system and/or heating
and cooling system; remove and clean vents, clean the surfaces near system
inlets and outlets, and clean the ventilation system's ductwork in order to
ensure that vapors and residues are properly removed from these areas.
   f)   If a strong chemical odor is coming from household plumbing, contact a
plumbing contractor for professional drain/pipe cleaning assistance.
   g)   Surfaces in areas where contamination was found or suspected shall be
cleaned and painted when possible, so as to provide a barrier between the
contamination and anyone who may come in contact with those surfaces.
   4)   Certification. Prior to obtaining an occupancy permit for any property
considered to be a potential threat to public health as provided herein, the
property owner shall provide the City with proper evidence and documentation
that methamphetamine residues on said property do not exceed five micrograms
per square foot. It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or to allow any
person to occupy any such property that is not certified by the city for human
occupancy.
Sec. 12-302. Duty to disclose to tenants.
   The owner of any property considered a potential threat to public health as
provided by this Article shall disclose to any prospective renter or occupant
of the property, the prior existence of a methamphetamine manufacturing
operation on said property.
Sec. 12-303. Penalty.
Any person who violates any provision of this Article shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a Class A offense and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($750.00) and up to sixty (60) days
imprisonment, or both said fine and imprisonment. Every day that a violation
exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 13
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Art. I.    In General, §§ 13-1--13-30
Art. II.   Administration and Enforcement, §§ 13-31--13-85
   
Div. 1.   Generally, §§ 13-31--13-45
   
Div. 2.   Traffic-control Signs, Signals and Devices, §§13-86--13-100
Art. III.   Accidents and Accident Reports, §§ 13-86--13-100
Art. IV.   Overtaking, Passing, Etc., §§ 13-101-13-125
Art. V.   Right-of-way, §§ 13-126--13-145
Art. VI.   Speed and Related Offenses, §§ 13-146--13-165
Art. VII.   Turning Movements, Etc., §§ 13-166--13-190
Art. VIII.   Special Stops, §§ 13-191--13-210
Art. IX.   Stopping, Standing or Parking, §§ 13-211--13-255
Art. X.   Pedestrians, §§ 13-256--13-280
Art. XI.   Bicycles and Play Vehicles, §§ 13-281--13-305
Art. XII.   Maintenance, Construction and Safety Zones, §§ 13-306--13-320
Art. XIII.   Motorcycles, Etc., §§ 13-321--13-335
Art. XIV.   Vehicle Equipment, Condition, Etc., §§ 13-336--13-355
Art. XV.   Miscellaneous Regulations, §§ 13-356--13-372
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 13-1. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Authorized emergency vehicles. Vehicles of fire departments, ambulances, and
police vehicles, including vehicles owned or operated by the United States
Marshals Service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation or by any local
organization for civil defense such vehicles shall be equipped with siren
capable of giving an audible signal, as required by law, and a flashing red
light.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-103.
Cross references--Injury to motor vehicles, §
12-102; arrests for violation of traffic ordinances, §
14-18(d); abandoned, junked, etc., vehicles, §
15-60 et seq.; parades, §
21-25 et seq.
Automobile. Every motor vehicle of the type constructed and used for the
transportation of persons for purposes other than for hire or compensation.
This shall include all vehicles of the station wagon type whether the same are
called station wagons, or ranch wagons, van wagons, except those used for
commercial purposes, suburbans, town, and county, or by any other name, except
when owned and used as a school bus or motor bus by a school district or a
religious corporation or society as elsewhere provided by law.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-103.1.
Bicycle. A bicycle is a device upon which any person or persons may ride,
propelled solely by human owner through a belt, chain, or gears, and having two
or more wheels, excluding mopeds. As used in this chapter the term "bicycle"
shall include tricycles, quadcycles, or similar human-powered devices,
electric-assisted bicycles, and motorized bicycles, unless otherwise
specifically indicated.
(Ord, No. 601, 4-19-2005; Ord, No. 619, §1, 08-01-2006)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-104.
Boulevard. Any highway or portion thereof where vehicles are required to come
to a full stop before entering from an intersecting highway.
Bus. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-105.
Business district. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any six hundred (600) feet along such highway there are buildings in use
for business or industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels,
banks, office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings, which occupy
at least three hundred (300) feet in frontage on one side or three hundred
(300) feet collectively on both sides of the highway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-106.
Commercial equipment shall mean any vehicle, devise, or constructed machine,
excluding trailers, used primarily for business or commercial purposes that is
incapable of self-propelled motion in excess of thirty-five (35) miles per
hour.
Controlled-access highway. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-110.
Crosswalk. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway. The term shall also mean any portion of a roadway at
an intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other markings on the surface.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-111.
Curb loading zone. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
Driver. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-114.
Electric-assisted bicycle is any bicycle with:
   (1)   Two or three wheels; and
   (2)   Fully operative pedals for human propulsion and equipped with an
electric motor:
   (a)   With a power output not to exceed one thousand (1,000) watts;
   (b)   Incapable of propelling the device at a speed of more than twenty (20)
miles per hour on level ground; and
   (c)   Incapable of further increasing the speed of the device when human
power alone is used to propel the device at a speed of twenty (20) miles per
hour or more.
An electric-assisted bicycle shall meet the requirements of the Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standards as set forth in federal regulations and shall operate
in such a manner that the electric motor disengages or ceases to function when
the brakes are applied.
(Ord. No. 601, 4-19-2005; Ord. No. 619 §1, 08-01-2006)
Farm equipment shall mean any tractor designed and used primarily as a farm
implement or any trailer or wagon designed or used for carrying passengers or
property and being drawn by animal or motive power.
Freight curb loading zone. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
Front building line means a line extending from side property line to side
property line and being the minimum horizontal distance between the front
property line and the front of the main building or any projections thereof
other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed porches.
Highway or street. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel. The words "highway" and "street" are synonymous.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. §§ 1-122, 1-171.
Implement of husbandry. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural or livestock raising operations or for lifting or
carrying an implement of husbandry and in either case not subject to
registration if used upon the highways. Farm wagon type tank trailers of not
over one thousand two hundred (1,200) gallon capacity, used during the liquid
fertilizer season as field storage "nurse tanks" supplying the fertilizer to a
field applicator and moved on highways only for bringing the fertilizer from a
local source of supply to farms or fields or from one farm or field to another,
shall be considered implements of husbandry for purposes of this chapter.
Trailers or semi-trailers owned by a person engaged in the business of farming
and used exclusively for the purpose of transporting farm products to market or
for the purpose of transporting to the farm materials or things to be used
thereon shall also be considered implements of husbandry for purposes of this
chapter.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-125.
Intersection. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways, which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle, may come in conflict. Where a highway
includes two (2) roadways thirty (30) feet or more apart, then every crossing
of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway shall be
regarded as a separate intersection. In the event, such intersecting highway
also includes two (2) roadways thirty (30) feet or more apart, then every
crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-126.
Laned roadway. A roadway, which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
Motor home. A small bus or trucklike vehicle with a roomlike area behind the
driver's seat outfitted as living quarters.
Motor vehicle. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails the term shall exclude implements of husbandry.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-134.
Motorcycle: A motorcycle is any motor vehicle having:
   (1)   A seat or saddle for the use of each rider;
   (2)   Not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but
excluding a tractor; and,
   (3)   A combustion engine with a piston or rotor displacement of greater
than one hundred fifty cubic centimeters (150 cu cm).
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-135.
Motor-driven Cycle. A motor-driven cycle is any motor vehicle having:
   (1)   A power source that:
   (a)   If the power source is a combustion engine has a piston or rotor
displacement of greater than thirty-five cubic centimeters (35 cu cm) but less
than one hundred fifty cubic centimeters (150 cu cm) regardless of the number
of chambers in the power source; or
   (b)   If the power source is electric, has a power output of greater than
one thousand (1,000) watts; and
   (2)   A seat or saddle for the use or each rider;
   (3)   Not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground;
A motor-driven cycle requires a driver's license of proper class with
endorsement.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-136.
Motorized bicycle is any bicycle having:
   (1)   Fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power;
   (2)   An automatic transmission; and,
   (3)   A combustion engine with a piston or rotor displacement of fifty cubic
centimeters (50 cu cm) or less, regardless of the number of chambers in the
engine, which is capable of propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of
not more than thirty (30) miles per hour on level ground.
Motorized Scooter: A motorized scooter is any vehicle having:
   (1)   Not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground;
   (2)   Handlebars and a foot support or seat for the use of the operator;
   (3)   A power source that is capable of propelling the vehicle at a maximum
design speed of not more than twenty-five (25) miles per hour on level ground,
and:
   (a)   If the power source is a combustion engine, has a piston or rotor
displacement of thirty-five cubic centimeters (35 cu cm) or less regardless of
the number of chambers in the power source;
   (b)   If the power source is electric, has a power output of not more than
one thousand (1,000) watts.
For purposes of this section, an electric personal assistive mobility device,
bicycle, electric-assisted bicycle, or motorized bicycle, shall not be
considered a motorized scooter. A motorized scooter shall not be required to be
registered under the laws of this State. The operator of a motorized scooter
shall not be required to possess a driver's license or to comply with the
vehicle insurance or financial responsibility laws of this State.
Official traffic-control devices. All signs, barricades, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-139.
Park or parking. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-142(a).
Passenger curb loading zone. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
Paved surface shall mean a solid, sealed surface constructed of asphalt,
concrete, stone, brick, or other similar material which is designed to
adequately support the weight of vehicles using such surface and which is
designed to prevent the occurrence of mud and dust with continued vehicular
use. Honeycombed concrete, brick, or stone pavers that are designed by the
manufacturer for use as a decorative parking surface shall be deemed a paved
surface, provided that adequate surface area is provided so that all wheels of
the vehicle are parked on such surface. Gravel, loose aggregate, or other
similar materials that are not bonded together so as to provide a solid, sealed
surface shall not be deemed a paved surface.
Pedestrian. Any person afoot.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-143.
Police officer. Every officer of the police department and any other officer
who is authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violation of traffic ordinances.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-147.
Private road or driveway. Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-148.
Railroad. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-149.
Railroad sign or signal. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of a
public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-150.
Railroad train. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-151.
Resident district. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of three hundred (300) feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-154.
Right-of-way. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway. For purposes
of Article IX of this Chapter, right-of-way shall also mean the portion of
property owned by the public, or by which the public has obtained a legal
right, established by usage or grant, for public roadways and use by a public
utility.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-156.
Roadway. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein refers to
any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-158.
Safety zone or island. An area or space officially set apart within a roadway
for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone or island.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. §1-159.
Shoulder. The portion of the roadway contiguous with the traveled way for
accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral support of
base and surface courses.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-158.
Sidewalk. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-163.
Stand or standing. The halting of a vehicle whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-167.
Stop. When required, the complete cessation from movement.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-169.
Stop or stopping. When prohibited, any halting even momentarily of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control sign or signal.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-170.
Taxicab. Any motor vehicle for hire, designed to carry seven (7) persons or
less, operated upon any street or highway, or on call or demand, accepting or
soliciting passengers indiscriminately for transportation for hire between such
points along streets or highways as may be directed by the passenger or
passengers so being transported but this classification shall not include motor
vehicles of seven (7) passenger capacity or less operated by the owner where
the cost of operation is shared by fellow workmen between their homes and the
place of regular daily employment, when not operated for more than two (2)
trips per day, nor shall the classification include automobiles operated by the
owner where the cost of operation is shared by the passengers on a "share the
expense plan," nor shall this classification include motor vehicles
transporting students from the public school system when said motor vehicle is
so transporting under contract with public, private or parochial school board
or governing body.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-174.
Through highway. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicle traffic is
given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-of-way to
vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this chapter.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-175.
Traffic. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of travel.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-177.
Traffic-control signal. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-178.
Traffic lane. The portion of the traveled way for the movement of a single line
of vehicles.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-179.
Trailer. A nonautomotive vehicle designed to be hauled by road. For purposes of
Article IX of this Chapter, regulations applicable to trailers, generally, are
not applicable to travel trailers or watercraft trailers when there are
separate regulations for those vehicles.
Travel trailer. A trailer (as defined in this Section) designed and equipped to
serve wherever parked as a temporary dwelling or place of business.
Truck. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-182.
Unpaved surface shall mean a surface consisting of crushed gravel, loose
aggregate, or similar material provided as a surface over a compacted base
material sufficient to withstand the weight of the vehicle to be parked on it;
and sufficiently designed, constructed, or maintained to prevent erosion,
rutting, and vegetation.
Urban district. The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred (100) feet for a distance of a
quarter of a mile or more.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-185.
Vehicle. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks provided, however, the
definition of "vehicle" as used in this chapter shall not include implements of
husbandry. Vehicles include automobiles, boats, vans, trucks, travel trailers,
or any other similar type conveyance propelled or towed by motorized power.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 1-186.
(Code 1976, § 15-1-1)
Vehicle, commercial shall mean any vehicle: (1) having a combined laden weight
over 8,000 pounds and used primarily for business or commercial purposes; (2)
having a gross vehicle weight rating greater than 16,000 pounds; or (3) having
a gross vehicle weight rating greater than 10,000 pounds and a maximum height
greater than nine (9) feet. For purposes of this definition, "combined laden
weight" means the weight of a vehicle and its cargo or payload, and "gross
vehicle weight rating" means the value specified by a vehicle's manufacturer as
the maximum load weight of a single vehicle.
Vehicle, recreational shall mean a van or utility vehicle used for recreational
purposes, as camping, and often equipped with living facilities.
Watercraft trailer. A trailer (as defined in this Section) designed to
transport boats or other forms of watercraft.
Yard, front means a yard located in front of the front elevation of a main
building and extending across a lot between the side yard lines and being the
horizontal distance between the front property line and the main building or
any projection thereof, other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed
porches.
Yard, rear means a yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between the
side yard lines and being the horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps, unenclosed
balconies, or unenclosed porches. On corner lots, the rear yard shall be
considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall in all
cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
Yard, side means a yard between the main building and sideline of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main building
or any projections other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed
porches.
Sec. 13-2. Compliance.
   It is an offense for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required in this chapter.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-102.
Sec. 13-2.1. Penalty for violations.
   (a)   Any person who violates sections
13-9,
13-14 or
13-356 herein shall be punished according to a Class A offense subject to fine
limitations as provided in section
1-9 of the Code.
   (b)   Any Chapter 13 Class B offense, when coupled with any Chapter 13 Class
A offense, shall become punishable according to a Class A offense subject to
fine limitations as provided in section
1-9 of the Code.
(Ord. No. 382, § 2, 5-19-87 Ord. No. 384, § 1, 6-16-87)
Editor's note--Codification of § 2 of Ord. No. 382, adopted May 19, 1987, as §
13-2.1 hereof was at the editor's discretion.
Sec. 13-3. Obedience to police and fire department officials.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-103.
Sec. 13-4. Persons propelling pushcarts, riding animals, or driving animal-
drawn vehicles to obey traffic regulations.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this chapter, which by their very nature can have no
application.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-104.
Sec. 13-5. Public officers and employees to obey traffic regulations.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, any state,
county, city or other governmental unit or agency, as well as to other vehicles
and it is unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by state statute.
State law references--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 16-103 exemption for
military convoys, and 47 O.S. § 11-107.
Sec. 13-6. Application of chapter to persons working on streets.
   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this chapter, except
those relating to reckless driving and driving while intoxicated, shall not
apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a street, or to persons, motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in construction, maintenance or repair
of public utilities provided that all highway and public utility operations
shall be protected by adequate warning signs, signals, devices or flagmen but
the provisions of this chapter shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-105.
Sec. 13-7. Authorized emergency vehicles.
   (a)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or ordinance or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire
alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to
the conditions herein stated.
   (b)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation:
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as speeding does not
endanger life or property;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement; and
      (5)   Disregard regulations governing or turning in specific directions.
   (c)   The exemptions herein granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle shall apply only when the driver is properly and lawfully making use of
an audible signal or of flashing red or blue lights or a combination of
flashing red and blue lights as required by law, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red or blue light visible from in front of the vehicle. This
subsection shall not be construed as requiring a peace officer operating a
police vehicle properly and lawfully in response to a crime in progress to use
audible signals.
   (d)   The exemptions in paragraphs (3) and (5) of subsection (b) of this
section shall be granted to a law enforcement officer operating an authorized
emergency vehicle for law enforcement purposes without using audible and visual
signals required by this section as long as the action does not endanger life
or property if the officer is following a suspected violator of the law with
probable cause to believe that:
      (1)   Knowledge of the presence of the officer will cause the suspect to:
         (i)   Destroy or lose evidence of a suspected felony,
         (ii)   End a suspected continuing felony before the officer has
obtained sufficient evidence to establish grounds for arrest, or
         (iii)   Evade apprehension or identification of the suspect or the
vehicle of the suspect; or
      (2)   Because of traffic conditions, vehicles moving in response to the
audible or visual signals may increase the potential for a collision.
   The exceptions granted in this subsection shall not apply to an officer who
is in actual pursuit of a person who is eluding or attempting to elude the
officer in violation of Section 540A of Title 21 of the Oklahoma Statutes or §
13-356 of the City Code.
   (e)   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord. No. 770, § 1, 11-20-23)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-106.
Sec. 13-8. Reckless/careless driving, failure to devote full time and
attention; texting;
   (a)   Reckless Driving. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor
vehicle in a careless or wanton manner without regard for the safety of persons
or property.
   (b)   Careless Driving. Any person driving a vehicle on a highway shall
drive the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is
reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of
the highway and any other conditions then existing. No person shall drive any
vehicle upon a highway at a speed greater than will permit the drive to bring
it to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   (c)   Failure to Devote Full Time and Attention. The operator of every
vehicle while driving shall devote full time and attention to such driving. No
law enforcement officer shall issue a citation under this section unless the
law enforcement officer observes that the operator of the vehicle is involved
in an accident or observes the operator of the vehicle driving in such a manner
that poses an articulable danger to other persons on the roadway that is not
otherwise specified in statute.
(Code 1976, § 15-14-2; 2022 City Code) (Ord. No. 772, § 1, 11-20-23)
State law reference--Reckless driving, 47 O.S. §§ 11-801, 11-901.
Sec. 13-9. Driving while intoxicated.
   (a)   It is an offense for any person to drive, operate, or be in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle within this state who:
   (1)   Has a blood or breath alcohol concentration, as defined in Section 756
of Title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes of eight-hundredths (0.08) or more at the
time of a test of such person's blood or breath administered within two (2)
hours after the arrest of such person or
   (2)   Is under the influence of alcohol or
   (3)   Is under the influence of any other intoxicating substance to a degree
which renders such person incapable of safely driving or operating a motor
vehicle or
   (4)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any other intoxicating
substance to a degree, which renders such person incapable of safely driving or
operating a motor vehicle.
   (b)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of this section is
or has been lawfully entitled to use alcohol or a controlled dangerous
substance or any other intoxicating substance shall not constitute a defense
against any charge of violating this section.
   (c)   As used in this section, the term "other intoxicating substance" shall
mean any controlled dangerous substance as defined in the Uniform Controlled
Dangerous Substances Act and any other substance, other than alcohol, which is
capable of being ingested, inhaled, injected, or absorbed into the human body
and is capable of adversely affecting the central nervous system, vision,
hearing or other sensory or motor functions.
Cross references--Public intoxication, §
12-45 glue sniffing, and §
12-53 use of narcotics, §
12-53.
State law references--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-902 uniform Controlled
Dangerous Substances Act, 63 O.S. § 2-101 et seq.
Sec. 13-10. Driving while ability impaired by consumption of alcohol.
   1)   No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle while his ability to
operate such motor vehicle is impaired by the consumption of alcohol or
intoxicating liquor which renders such person's driving to be affected by the
consumption of alcohol to the extent that the public health and safety is
threatened or that the person had violated a state statute or city ordinance in
the operation of a motor vehicle.
   2)   It is unlawful for any person under twenty-one years of age to drive,
operate or be in the actual physical control of a motor vehicle who:
   a)   Has any measurable quantity of alcohol in the person's blood or breath
at the time of the test administered within two (2) hours after an arrest of
the person;
   b)   Exhibits evidence of the combined influence of alcohol and any other
intoxicating substance.
   c)   Penalty: Any person under twenty-one (21) years of age who violates any
provision of this section shall be subject to the seizure of the driver license
of that person at the time of arrest or detention and the person, upon
conviction, shall be guilty of operating or being in actual physical control of
a motor vehicle while under the influence while underage and shall be punished:
   1.   For a first conviction, by:
   2.   A fine of not less than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) nor more than
Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00),
   3.   Assignment to and completion of twenty (20) hours of community service,
   4.   Requiring the person to attend and complete a treatment program, or
   5.   Any combination of fine, community service, or treatment
(Ord. No. 317, § 3, 6-7-83; Ord. No. 676, §1, 10-16-2012)
Cross reference--Public intoxication, §
12-45.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 756; 47, O.S § 11-906.4
Sec. 13-11. Tests for alcohol use implied consent, etc.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle upon the highways of this city shall
be deemed to have given consent, subject to the provisions of law, to a
chemical test or tests of his blood, breath, urine, or saliva at the election
of the law enforcement officer, for the purpose of determining the alcoholic
content of his blood. The test or tests shall be administered at the direction
of a law enforcement officer and in accordance with the standards provided by
law after having arrested a person and having reasonable grounds to believe the
person driving or in actual physical control of a motor vehicle upon the
highways of this city was under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating
liquors.
(Ord. No. 304, § 1, 10-2-82)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 751.
Sec. 13-12. Transportation of alcoholic beverages.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any vehicle
upon a public highway, street or alley any alcoholic beverage except in the
original container which shall not have been opened and the seal upon which
shall not have been broken and from which the original cap or cork shall not
have been removed, unless the opened container be in the rear trunk or rear
compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment in a vehicle
commonly known as a station wagon and panel truck, or any outside compartment
which is not accessible to the driver or any other person in said vehicle while
it is in motion.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 37 O.S. § 537(a) (7).
Sec. 13-13. Transportation of non-intoxicating beverages.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly transport in any moving
vehicle upon a public highway, street or alley any non-intoxicating beverage
containing more than one-half of one percent alcohol by volume and not more
than three and two-tenths (3.2) percent alcohol by weight except in the
original container which shall not have been opened and from which the original
cap or seal shall not have been removed, unless the open container is in the
rear trunk or rear compartment, which shall include the spare tire compartment
in a station wagon or panel truck, or any outside compartment which is not
accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in
motion.
(Code 1976, § 15-14-8 Ord. No. 353, § 1, 7-2-85)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 1220.
Sec. 13-14. Driver's license.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle upon
the highways of this city without having in his possession while operating such
motor vehicle, an unrevoked or unsuspended operator's or chauffeur's license
and conforming to any specific restrictions contained thereon as required by
the laws of the state unless such person is specifically exempted from such
laws by the provisions thereof. However, no person charged with violating this
subsection shall be convicted if he produces in court an operator's or
chauffeur's license previously issued to him and valid at the time of his
arrest.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person whose license as required by state law
for operation of a motor vehicle upon the state highways has been revoked or
suspended to operate a motor vehicle during the period of suspension or
revocation.
(Code 1976, §§ 15-9-1, 15-9-5 Ord. No. 338, § 1, 11-1-83 Ord. No. 339, § 1, 11-
1-83 Ord. No. 357, § 1, 9-3-85)
State law reference--Drivers licenses, 47 O.S. § 6-101 et seq.
Sec. 13-15. Permitting unauthorized persons to drive.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or knowingly permit his child
or ward under the age of sixteen (16) years to drive a motor vehicle on any of
the streets of this city when such minor is not authorized to do so by the
provisions of the laws of the State of Oklahoma.
(Code 1976, § 15-9-2)
Sec. 13-16. Certification of existence of security.
   (a)   The owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state and operating
the vehicle within the city shall carry in such vehicle at all times a current
owner's security verification form listing the vehicle, or an equivalent form
which has been used by the state department of public safety which shall be
produced by any driver thereof upon request for inspection by any law
enforcement officer. In case of a collision, the form shall be shown upon
request to any person affected by the collision.
   (b)   The following shall not be required to carry an owner's or operator's
security verification form or an equivalent form from the department during
operation of the vehicle and shall not be required to surrender such form for
vehicle registration purposes.
   (1)   Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal or state government, or any
agency or political subdivisions thereof
   (2)   Any vehicle bearing the name, symbol or logo of the business,
corporation, or utility on the exterior and which is in compliance with the
compulsory insurance law according to records of the department of public
safety which reflect a deposit, bond, self-insurance, or fleet policy
   (3)   Any vehicle authorized for operation, under a permit number issued by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, or the Oklahoma Corporation Commission
   (4)   Any licensed taxicab and
   (5)   Any vehicle owned by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer.
   (c)   In this section:
   (1)   Compulsory insurance law means the law requiring liability insurance
in conjunction with the operation of a motor vehicle in this state as found in
article VI, chapter 7 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
   (2)   Operator's policy means an operator's policy of liability insurance
that shall insure the named person against loss for the liability imposed upon
him by law for damages arising out of the operation or use by him of any motor
vehicle not owned by him, subject to the same limits of liability required in
an owner's policy.
   (3)   Owner's policy means an owner's policy of liability insurance that:
   a.   Designates by explicit description or by appropriate reference all
vehicles with respect to which coverage is thereby to be granted
   b.   Shall insure the person named therein and insure any other person,
except as provided in subparagraph c. of this section, using an insured vehicle
with the express or implied permission of the named insured, against loss from
the liability imposed by law for damages arising out of the ownership
maintenance operation or use of such vehicle
   c.   May provide for exclusions from coverage in accordance with existing
laws and
   d.   Shall be issued by an authorized carrier providing coverage in
accordance with section 7-204 of Title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
   (4)   Security means:
   a.   A policy or bond meeting the requirements of section 7-204 of title 47
of the Oklahoma Statutes
   b.   A deposit of cash or securities having the equivalency of limits
required under section 7-204 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes as acceptable
limits for a policy or bond or
   c.   Self-insurance, pursuant to the provisions of section 7-503 of title 47
of the Oklahoma Statutes, having the equivalency of limits required under
section 7-204 of title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes as acceptable limits for a
policy or bond.
   (5)   Security verification form means a form, approved by the state board
for property and casualty rates, verifying the existence of security required
by the compulsory insurance law.
   (d)   Every operator of a motor vehicle registered in this state shall,
while operating or using such vehicle within the city's boundaries, carry
either an operator's or an owner's security verification form issued by a
carrier, providing the operator is not excluded from coverage thereon or an
equivalent form issued by the department of public safety, reflecting liability
coverage.
   (e)   An owner or operator who fails to produce for inspection a valid and
current security verification form or equivalent form, which has been issued by
the department upon request of any peace officer of the city, shall be guilty
of an offense. A sentence imposed for any violation of this section may be
suspended or deferred in whole or in part by the court.
   (f)   Any person producing proof in court that a current security
verification form or equivalent form, which has been issued by the department
reflecting this liability coverage for such person was in force at the time of
the alleged offense, shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge.
   (g)   Upon conviction, bond forfeiture, or deferral of sentence, the court
clerk shall forward an abstract to the department of public safety within ten
(10) days reflecting the action taken by the court.
(Ord. No. 319, §§ 1, 2, 6-21-83)
State law reference--Certificate of insurance, 47 O.S. § 7-602.1.
Sec. 13-17. Impoundment of Vehicles/Seizure of License Plate for No Insurance.
   1.   Upon issuing a citation for failure to comply with the Compulsory
Insurance Law of the state, the law enforcement officer issuing the citation
may as provided by Title 47, O.S. Chapter 7, Article 6, Section 7-606:
   a.   Seize the vehicle being operated by the person and cause the vehicle to
be towed and stored as provided by Title 47 O.S. Section 955, Subsection B of
Section 955, provided the officer has probable cause to believe that the
vehicle is not insured as required by the Compulsory Insurance Law of this
state, or
   b.   Seize the license plate of the vehicle and issue the citation to the
vehicle operator, provided that the vehicle is in a drivable condition at the
time of issuing the citation.
   2.   The vehicle owner or operator may retrieve the license plate from The
Village Police Department upon providing verification of compliance with the
Compulsory Insurance Law, payment in full of all administrative fees and other
charges authorized specifically by applicable law.
   3.   If the operator of the vehicle produces what appears to be a valid
security verification form and the officer is unable to confirm compliance
through the online verification system or noncompliance by a subsequent
investigation, the officer shall be prohibited from seizing the license plate
or seizing the vehicle and causing such vehicle to be towed and stored.
Further, no vehicle shall be seized and towed under the provisions of this
paragraph if said vehicle is displaying a temporary license plate that has not
expired pursuant to the provisions of Title 47, O.S. Sections 1137.1 and
1137.3.
(Ord. No. 687 §1, 11-19-2013, Effective Date 02-01-2014; Ord. No. 730, §1, 07-
17-2017)
Secs. 13-18--13-30. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 13-31. General Powers of police and fire departments and building
inspector.
   (a)   It is the duty of the police department to enforce the street traffic
regulations of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this city, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon the
department by any traffic ordinances of this city.
   (b)   Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by
the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
or signal in conformance with traffic laws and ordinances provided that in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions
may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws and ordinances.
   (c)   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in
the immediate vicinity.
   (d)   The Building Inspector and Code Enforcement Officer are hereby
authorized to issue citations for all parking and other nonmoving violations
under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 282, § 1(15-18a-1), 8-5-80)
Sec. 13-32. Reserved.
Sec. 13-33. Payment of fines in advance.
   Persons charged with a violation of this chapter may enter a plea of guilty
and pay a fine in the amount designated by the municipal judge before such
person's assigned date to appear in court.
Cross reference--Municipal court,
Ch. 14.
Sec. 13-34. Impoundment of vehicles.
   Authorized agents of the city may impound vehicles parked or left standing
upon the streets under the circumstances enumerated in section
15-62, in the manner provided for in such section. (2020 City Code)
Sec. 13-35. Arrests on boundary line streets and highways.
   Any police officer is authorized to make arrests for violations of traffic
ordinances of the city he observes on any highway or street that forms the
boundary line of the city and any other adjoining political jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 405, § 2, 2-2-88)
Cross reference--Speed limits on boundary roads, §
13-151.
State law reference--Authority to enforce traffic ordinances on boundary line
streets, 47 O.S. Section 15-101.1.
Secs. 13-36--13-45. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND DEVICES
Sec. 13-46. Obedience.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter or law, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this chapter.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-201(a).
Sec. 13-47. Ratification.
   All traffic control signs, signals, devices and marking which are in place
on the adoption date of this Code are hereby ratified and confirmed and shall
be considered to have been authorized by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 13-48. When required for enforcement purposes.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-201(b).
Sec. 13-49. Erection, etc.
    All traffic control signs, signals, devices, and marking shall be
designated and installed as directed by the City Manager, or his or her
designee, consistent with the manual and specifications for a uniform system of
traffic-control devices adopted by the State Highway Commission pursuant to 47
O.S. § 15-104, as may be amended from time to time.
(Code 1976, § 15-6-1) (Ord. No. 776, § 2, 10-14-24)
Sec. 13-50. Traffic-control signal legend.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or colored lighted arrows successively one at a time,
or in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and said lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (1)   Green indication:
   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal, except when
prohibited under section
13-307 of this Code, may proceed straight through, or turn right or left unless
a sign at such place prohibits either such turn but vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent
crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
   (b)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
   (c)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, pedestrians
facing any green signal except when the sole green signal is a turn arrow, may
proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (2)   Steady yellow indication:
   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
   (b)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal are thereby advised
that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is
shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross the roadway.
   (3)   Steady red indication:
   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop
at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before entering the
intersection and shall remain standing until an indication to proceed is shown
except as provided in paragraph b. below.
   (b)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn, vehicular traffic
facing any steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to turn
right or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street after
stopping as required by paragraph a. above. Such vehicular traffic shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to
other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
   (c)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, pedestrians
facing a steady circular red signal alone shall not enter the roadway.
   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and maintained at
a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be
applicable except as to those provisions, which by their nature can have no
application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-202.
Sec. 13-51. Pedestrian-control signals.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Wait" or "Don't Walk" is in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
   (1)   Walk: Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way in the
direction of the signal by the driver of all vehicles.
   (2)   Wait or Don't Walk: No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the wait signal is showing.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-203.
Sec. 13-52. Flashing signals.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution, and in obedience to any
signs posted in addition to such signal device denoting rate of speed either
for approaching or passing through the intersection or zone governed by such
caution signal.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-204.
Sec. 13-53. Lane use control signals.
   When lane use control signals are placed over individual lanes, said signals
shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles as follows:
   (1)   Green indication: Vehicular traffic may travel in any lane over which
a green signal is shown
   (2)   Steady yellow indication: Vehicular traffic is thereby warned that a
lane control change is being made
   (3)   Steady red indication: Vehicular traffic shall not enter or travel in
any lane over which a red signal is shown
   (4)   Flashing yellow indication: Vehicular traffic may use the lane only
for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-204.1.
Sec. 13-54. Pedestrian-actuated school crossing signals.
   Whenever a pedestrian actuated school-crossing signal is provided, it shall
require obedience by vehicular traffic and pedestrians in accordance with
sections 13-50 and 13-51 of this Code.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-205.
Sec. 13-55. Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings.
   (a)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which
projects any flashing or revolving beams of light, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal.
   (b)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign, signal or device bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (c)   This section shall not prohibit the erection upon private property
adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information and of a
type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (d)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance the city manager is hereby empowered to remove
the same without notice.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-206.
Sec. 13-56. Interference with official control devices or railroad signs or
signals.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-207.
Secs. 13-57--13-85. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. ACCIDENTS AND ACCIDENT REPORTS*
Sec. 13-86. Driver to give immediate notice of accident.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person shall immediately by the quickest means of communication
give notice of such accident to the police department if such accident occurs
within this city.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 10-107.
Sec. 13-87. Duty to give information and render aid.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended
by any person or damage to other personal property shall give his correct name,
address and registration number of the vehicle he is driving, and shall, upon
request and if available, exhibit his operator's or chauffeur's license and his
security verification form as defined in section
13-16 to the person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any
vehicle collided with, and shall render to any person injured in such accident
reasonable assistance, including the carrying, or the making of arrangements
for the carrying, of such person to a physician, surgeon or hospital for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
State law reference--Accidents and accident reports, 10 O.S. § 10-101 et seq.
   (b)   Any person willfully or maliciously failing to stop, or to comply with
said requirements herein, shall be guilty of a Class A offense.
(Ord. No. 409, § 1, 6-21-88)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 10-104.
Sec. 13-88. Written report of accident.
   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or total property damage
to an apparent extent of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) or more shall, within
six (6) months after such accident, forward a written report of such accident
to the state department of public safety. If settlement of the collision has
not been made within six (6) months after the date of the accident, and
provided that if a settlement has been made, a report of such settlement must
be made by the parties.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 10-108.
Secs. 13-89--13-100. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. OVERTAKING, PASSING, ETC.*
Sec. 13-101. Drive on right side of roadway.
   (a)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
State law reference--Overtaking, passing, etc., 47 O.S. § 11-301 et seq.
   (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement
   (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left of
the center of the highway provided, any person so doing shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the unobstructed
portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an immediate
hazard
   (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon
   (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic or
   (5)   Upon a roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic.
   (b)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane when available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (c)   Upon any roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under subsection (a), paragraph (2) of this
section. However, this subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting the
crossing of the centerline in making a left turn into or from an alley, private
road, or driveway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-301.
Sec. 13-102. Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-302.
Sec. 13-103. Overtaking a vehicle on the left generally.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted; the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (3)   Every driver who intends to pass another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction, which requires moving his vehicle from one lane of traffic to
another, shall first see that such movement can be made with safety and shall
proceed to pass only after giving a proper signal by hand or mechanical device.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-303.
Sec. 13-104. When overtaking on the right is permitted.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
   (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn.
   (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction.
   (3)   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-304.
Sec. 13-105. Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway
before coming within one hundred (100) feet of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-305.
Sec. 13-106. Other limitations on driving to left of center of roadway.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
   (1)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction
   (2)   When approaching within one hundred (100) feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing unless otherwise indicated by official
traffic-control devices:
   (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching when within one hundred
(100) feet of any bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
   (b)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway nor
under the conditions described in section 13-101, subsection (a), paragraph (2)
of this Code, nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an
alley, private road, or driveway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-306.
Sec. 13-107. No-passing zones.
   (a)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone, no
driver shall at any time drive to the left side of the roadway within such no-
passing zone or on the left side of any pavement striping designed to mark such
no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving any vehicle to pass any
other vehicle, which is in motion and being driven in the same direction in any
school zone between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., unless otherwise
designated, on all days when any school or schools are in session.
(Code 1976, § 15-4-5)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-307.
Sec. 13-108. One-way streets and alleys.
   Upon those alleys and parts of alleys designated as one-way streets and
alleys, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
State law references--Municipal authority to designate one-way streets, 47 O.S.
§ 15-102(a) 4 one-way streets, and 47 O.S. § 11-308.
Sec. 13-109. Rotary traffic islands.
   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only to the
right of such island.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-308.
Sec. 13-110. Driving on roadways laned for traffic.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent
herewith shall apply:
   (1)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety, and then given a
signal, not less than one hundred (100) feet traveled by the vehicle, or his
intention to change lanes.
   (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn, or where
such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such
allocation.
   (3)   Upon a roadway which is divided into four (4) or more lanes, a vehicle
proceeding at less than the maximum posted speed, except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation, shall not impede the normal flow of traffic by
driving in the left lane. Such vehicle shall be driven in the right- hand lane
except when overtaking the passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway.
   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-309.
Sec. 13-111. Following too closely.
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
   (b)   The driver of any truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle when
traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or residential district and
which is following another truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle
shall, whenever conditions permit, leave sufficient space so that an overtaking
vehicle may enter and occupy such space without danger, except that this shall
not prevent a motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle from
overtaking and passing any like vehicle or another vehicle.
   (c)   No vehicle, which has more than six (6) tires in contact with the
road, shall approach from the rear of another vehicle, which has more than six
(6) tires in contact with the road closer than three hundred (300) feet except
when passing the vehicle.
   (d)   Motor vehicles being drawn upon any roadway outside of a business or
residential district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing other
vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. The distance between such vehicles shall
be a minimum of two hundred (200) feet under all conditions. This provision
shall not apply to funeral or other permitted processions.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-310.
Sec. 13-112. Driving on divided highways.
   Whenever any highway has been divided into two (2) or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
shall be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted
to use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers.
No vehicle shall be driven over, across or within any such dividing space,
barrier, or section, except through an opening in such physical barrier or
dividing section or space or at a crossover or intersection as established
unless specifically prohibited by public authority.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-311.
Secs. 13-113--13-125. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. RIGHT-OF-WAY*
Sec. 13-126. Vehicle approaching or entering intersection.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway provided that the driver of a vehicle on a street which is not a state
or federal highway approaching an intersection with a state or federal highway
shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection, or which is so close thereto as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
State law reference--Right-of-way generally, 47 O.S. § 11-401 et seq.
   (b)   When two (2) vehicles enter or approach an intersection from different
highways, at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (c)   The right-of-way rules declared in subsections (a) and (b) are
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this chapter.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-401.
Sec. 13-127. Vehicle turning left at intersection.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this chapter, may make such left turn, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite
direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-402.
Sec. 13-128. Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection.
   (a)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs.
   (b)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop as required by section
13-193 and after having stopped shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is approaching
so closely on said highway as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said
driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so
proceeding.
   (c)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to
such sigh slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or shall
stop, if necessary, as provided in section
13-193, subsection (e), and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving, and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard. Said driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding, provided, however, that if such driver is involved in a collision
with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or vehicle in the intersection after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of his failure to yield right-of-way.
   (d)   Where two (2) or more vehicles face stop, slow, warning or caution
signs or signals on two (2) or more intersecting cross streets and are
approaching so as to enter the intersection at the same time, where each
vehicle is required to stop, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the
right-of-way. Where each vehicle is required to slow, the vehicle coming from
the right shall have the right-of-way. Where each vehicle is required to take
caution, the vehicle coming from the right shall have the right-of-way. Where
one vehicle is required to stop and the other to slow or take caution, the one
slowing or taking caution shall have the right-of-way. Where one vehicle is
required to slow and the other to take caution, the one required to take
caution shall have the right-of-way. In any event, a vehicle, which has already
entered the intersection, shall have the right-of-way over one, which has not
so entered the intersection.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-403.
Sec. 13-129. Vehicles entering highway from private road or driveway.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a private
road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
said highway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-404.
Sec. 13-130. Approach of authorized emergency vehicles.
   (a)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
state, or of a police vehicle property and lawfully making use of an audible
signal or red and/or blue flashing lights, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway
clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (b)   This section shall not be construed to require a peace officer
operating a police vehicle properly and lawfully in response to a crime in
progress to use audible signals nor shall this section operate to relieve the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the road or highway.
(Ord. No. 771, § 1, 11-20-23)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-405.
Sec. 13-131. Vehicles parking.
   (a)   On leaving a parking space, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles moving along the street.
   (b)   Any vehicle attempting to park by backing into a parking space shall
have the right-of-way to such parking space over any other vehicle heading into
such place.
(Code 1976, §§ 15-8-4, 15-8-5)
Secs. 13-132--13-145. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. SPEED AND RELATED OFFENSES*
Sec. 13-146. Basic rule and maximum limits.
   (a)   Any person driving a vehicle on a highway shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the highway and
any other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle upon
a highway at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within
the assured clear distance ahead.
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle or combination of vehicles with
solid rubber or metal tires at a speed greater than ten (10) miles per hour.
State law references--Municipal authority to alter speed limits, 47 O.S. §§ 15-
102(a) 10, 11-803 speed generally, 47 O.S. § 11-801 et seq.
   (c)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
subsection (a), drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when driving upon any narrow or
winding roadway, and when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-801.
Sec. 13-147. Specific limits.
   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for compliance
with law or ordinance, the limits specified in this chapter, or established as
hereinafter authorized shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall
drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits as
follows:
   (1)   On designated boulevards, thirty-five (35) miles per hour and on
boulevards designated as state highways, forty (40) miles per hour, except as
otherwise provided in this section
   (2)   On streets not designated as boulevards, twenty-five (25) miles per
hour
   (3)   Within any school zone, twenty-five (25) miles per hour where that
portion of the highway surrounds or is adjacent to any school between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., unless such speed or time is otherwise designated,
on all days when any such school is in session and in all other areas where
school zone warning lights are on and operating.
(Code 1976, § 15-7-2 Ord. No. 287, § 1, 1-20-81)
Sec. 13-148. Minimum speed.
   (a)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
   (b)   Whenever the state, the city or other local authority has determined
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a highway consistently impede the normal and reasonable movement of
traffic, no person shall drive a vehicle below such speed except when necessary
for safe operation or in compliance with law.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-804.
Sec. 13-150. Special speed limitations.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge, viaduct, or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed, which is
greater than the maximum speed, which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure, when such structure is signposted as provided by law.
   (b)   Where any street or state or federal highway shall be under
construction or repair or a detour shall have been designated by reason of
construction or repairs in progress and the Oklahoma Department of Highways, or
the city shall have determined a maximum safe, careful and prudent speed on
such highway, street or detour during the period of such construction or
repairs and shall have plainly posted at each terminus thereof and at not less
than each half mile along the route thereof such determined maximum speed, no
person shall drive any vehicle upon such portion of such highway or upon such
detour at a speed in excess of the speed so determined and posted.
   (c)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this section,
proof of said determination of the maximum speed by the city or the department
of highways and the existence of said signs shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the maximum speed, which can be maintained with safety.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-806.
Sec. 13-151. Specific limits on city boundaries.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in violation of the speed limits set forth
in section 13-147 on any highway or street that forms the boundary line of the
city and any other adjoining political jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 405, § 2, 2-2-88)
Cross reference--Enforcement of traffic ordinances on boundary roads, §
13-35.
State law reference--Authority to adopt ordinances regulating traffic on
boundary line streets, 47 O.S. Section 15-101.1.
Sec. 13-152. Child Restraint Systems
A.   Every driver, when transporting a child under eight (8) years of age in a
motor vehicle operated on the roadways, streets, or highways of this city,
shall provide for the protection of said child by properly using a child
passenger restraint system as follows:
   1.   A child under four (4) years of age shall be properly secured in a
child passenger restraint system. The child passenger restraint system shall be
rear-facing until the child reaches two (2) years of age or until the child
reaches the weight or height limit of the rear-facing child passenger restraint
system as allowed by the manufacturer of the child passenger restraint system,
whichever occurs first; and
   2.   A child at least four (4) years of age but younger than eight (8) years
of age, if not taller than 4 feet 9 inches in height, shall be properly secured
in either a child passenger restraint system or child booster seat.
For purposes of this section a "child passenger restraint system" means an
infant or child passenger restraint system which meets the federal standards as
set by 49 C.F.R., Section 571.213.
B.   If a child is eight (8) years of age or is taller than 4 feet 9 inches in
height, a seat belt properly secured to the vehicle shall be sufficient to meet
the requirements of this section.
C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
   1.   The driver of a school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other motor
vehicle not required to be equipped with safety belts pursuant to state or
federal laws;
   2.   The driver of an ambulance or emergency vehicle;
   3.   The driver of a vehicle in which all of the seat belts are in use;
   4.   The transportation of children who for medical reasons are unable to be
placed in such devices, provided there is written documentation from a
physician of such medical reason; or
   5.   The transportation of a child who weighs more than forty (40) pounds
and who is being transported in the back seat of a vehicle while wearing only a
lap safety belt when the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
combination lap and shoulder safety belts, or when the combination lap and
shoulder safety belts in the back seat are being used by other children who
weigh more than forty (40) pounds. Provided, however, for purposes of this
paragraph, back seat shall include all seats located behind the front seat of a
vehicle operated by a licensed childcare facility or church. Provided further,
there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a child has met the weight
requirements of this paragraph if at the request of any law enforcement
officer, the licensed childcare facility or church provides the officer with a
written statement verified by the parent or legal guardian that the child
weighs more than forty (40) pounds.
D.   Any person convicted of violating subsection A or B of this section shall
be punished by a fine of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) and shall pay all court costs
thereof. This fine shall be suspended and the court costs limited to a maximum
of Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) in the case of the first offense upon proof of
purchase or acquisition by loan of a child passenger restraint system.
E.   This section shall become effective November 1, 2015.
State law reference - Title 47 O.S. 2011, Section 11-1112 as amended.
(Ord. No. 709, §1, 07-21-2015)
Sec. 13-153. Seat belts required for operator, front passengers.
   (a)   Every operator and front seat passenger of a passenger car operated in
this city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety seat belt system,
required to be installed in the motor vehicle when manufactured pursuant to 49
C.F.R. §571-.208. For the purpose of this section, "passenger car" shall mean
"vehicle" as defined by O.S. Title 47, Section 1102. "Passenger car" shall
include the passenger compartment of pickups, vans, minivans, and sport utility
vehicles. "Passenger car" shall not include trucks, truck-tractors,
recreational vehicles, motorcycles, or motorized bicycles. Passenger car shall
not include a vehicle used primarily for farm use, which is registered and
licensed pursuant to the provision of O.S. Title 47, Section 1134.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to an operator or passenger of a
passenger car in which the operator or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician licensed in this state that he is unable to wear
a safety seat belt system for medical reasons. Provided, the issuance of such
verification by a physician, in good faith, shall not give rise to, nor shall
such physician thereby incur, any liability whatsoever in damages or otherwise,
to any person injured by reason of such failure to wear a safety seat belt
system.
   (c)   This section shall not apply to an operator of a motor vehicle who is
a route carrier of the U.S. Postal Service.
   (d)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be punished by a
fine and court costs not to exceed twenty ($20.00) Dollars.
(Ord. No. 551, §1, 1-18-00; 2004 City Code)
State Law Reference: Title 47 §12-417 as amended.
Sec. 13-154. Fines Doubled for Speeding in School Zones.
Where any portion of a road, street, or highway is a properly marked school
zone, as indicated with appropriate warning signs placed in accordance with the
latest edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, and a reduced
speed limit as properly posted, shall be in effect during certain times due to
the presence or potential presence of school children, no person shall drive
any vehicle upon that portion of the highway which is the school zone in excess
of the reduced speed limit so posted when the reduced speed limit is in effect.
Violation of the posted reduced speed limit in the school zone shall result in
the doubling of the appropriate fine.
(Ord. No. 587, §1, 10-7-2003)
State Law Reference - Title 47 O.S. 2001, Section 11-403, 76, Chapter 468,
O.S.L. 2002
Secs. 13-155--13-165. Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. TURNING MOVEMENTS, ETC.*
Sec. 13-166. Required position and method of turning at intersections.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (2)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the center line thereof and by passing to the right of such
center line where it enters the intersection and after entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the center line of the roadway being entered. Whenever
practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to
the left of the center of the intersection.
   (3)   Left turns on other than two-way roadway. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and after entering
the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-601.
State law references--Municipal authority to regulate turning, 47 O.S. § 15-102
(a) 10 turning movements generally 47 O.S. § 11-601 et seq.
Sec. 13-167. Authority to place and obedience to turning markers.
   (a)   The city manager is authorized to have placed markers, buttons, or
signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled
by vehicles turning at such intersections and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law or ordinance.
   (b)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-601.
Sec. 13-168 Reserved.
(Code 1976, § 15-5-5 Ord. No. 489, § 1, 8-17-93)
Sec. 13-169. Obedience to no-turn signs.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such sign.
Sec. 13-170. Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon
any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where such
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within five hundred (500) feet.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-602.
Sec. 13-171. Turning movements and required signals.
   (a)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required by ordinance or turn a
vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a
direct course or move right or left upon a roadway, unless and until such
movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any
vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided
in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
   (b)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred (100) feet
traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   (c)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-604.
Sec. 13-172. Unauthorized use of turning lane.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense to use a lane designated for turning for
any other purpose.
(Code 1976, § 15-5-8)
Sec. 13-173. Starting parked vehicle.
   No person shall start a vehicle, which is stopped, standing, or parked
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-603.
Sec. 13-174. Signals by hand and arm or signal lamps.
   (a)   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either
by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps, except as otherwise provided
in subsection (b).
   (b)   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and
required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds twenty-four (24) inches, or when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of
the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen (14) feet. The latter measurement
shall apply to any single vehicle, and also to any combination of vehicles.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-605.
Sec. 13-175. Method of giving hand-and-arm signals.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (1)   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (2)   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
   (3)   Stop or decrease speed: Hand and arm extended downward.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-606.
Secs. 13-176--13-190. Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. SPECIAL STOPS
Secs. 13-191, 13-192. Reserved.
Sec. 13-193. Signs and yield signs.
   (a)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs.
   (b)   Every stop sign, and every yield sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersecting roadway however, such yield signs shall not be
erected upon the approaches of but one of the intersecting streets.
   (c)   Every stop sign shall bear the word "Stop." Every yield sign shall
bear the word "Yield." Every stop sign, and every yield sign shall at nighttime
be rendered luminous by internal illumination, or by a floodlight projected on
the face of the sign or by efficient reflecting elements in or on the face of
the sign.
   (d)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly-
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   (e)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-703.
Sec. 13-194. Emerging from alley, driveway, or building.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway and shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon
entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-704.
Sec. 13-195. Meeting or overtaking stopped school bus.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a school bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge school children, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, is to stop his vehicle before it reaches the school
bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed
past such school bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for
the safety of such school children and other occupants.
   (b)   Every school bus used for the transportation of school children shall
bear upon the front and rear thereof plainly visible signs containing the words
"School Bus" in letters not less than eight (8) inches in height and in
addition shall be equipped with visual signals meeting the requirements of law
which shall be actuated by the driver of said school bus whenever but only
whenever such vehicle is stopped on the highway for the purpose of receiving or
discharging school children.
   (c)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway with separate roadways need not
stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a different roadway or
when upon a controlled-access highway and the school bus is stopped in a
loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such highway and where
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-705.
Sec. 13-196. Meeting and overtaking stopped church buses.
   (a)   "Church bus" as used herein shall mean a vehicle operated by a
nonprofit religious organization, which transports persons, including school-
age children, to and from religious services.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle meeting or overtaking a church bus that is
stopped to take on or discharge passengers, and on which the red loading
signals are in operation, is to stop his vehicle before it reaches the church
bus and not proceed until the loading signals are deactivated and then proceed
past such bus at a speed which is reasonable and with due caution for the
safety of such occupants.
   (c)   Every church bus used for the transportation of persons to and from
religious services shall bear upon the front and rear thereof plainly visible
signs containing the words "CHURCH BUS" in letters not less than eight (8)
inches in height and in addition may be equipped with visual signals meeting
the requirements of law, which shall be actuated by the driver of said church
bus whenever, but only whenever, such vehicle is stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging passengers.
   (d)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway with separated roadways need
not stop upon meeting or passing a church bus which is on a different roadway
or when upon a controlled-access highway and the church bus is stopped in a
loading zone which is a part of or adjacent to such highway and where
pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-705.1.
Secs. 13-197--13-210. Reserved.
ARTICLE IX. STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
Sec. 13-211. Compliance.
   (a)   Whenever parking has been prohibited upon any street or has
established parking time limits for any street or portion thereof, and the same
has been duly posted, no vehicle shall be parked thereon in violation therefore
or in excess of the time limits as posted.
   (b)   When any street has been designated and posted for one-way traffic, or
for parking on only one (1) side of any street, vehicles shall not be parked
thereon except upon the side posted and indicated for parking and shall not be
parked so as to face against the flow of traffic thereon.
Sec. 13-212. Exceptions, etc., for authorized emergency vehicles and vehicles
used in road construction or maintenance.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to authorized emergency
vehicles or to vehicles or machinery used in the construction or maintenance of
highways, and such vehicles or machinery may be operated on any part of the
road, whether same is open to traffic or closed, when such operation is
necessary in the maintenance or construction of the highway provided that all
such operations shall be protected with adequate warnings, signs, signals,
lights, devices or flagmen.
Cross-reference--Parking in fire lanes, §
10-5.
State law references--Municipal authority to regulate stopping, standing, or
parking, 47 O.S. § 15-102(a) 2 stopping, standing, or parking generally, 47
O.S. § 11-1001 et seq.
Sec. 13-213. Manner of parking.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within
eighteen (18) inches of the right-hand curb.
   (b)   Vehicles may be parked with the left-hand wheels adjacent to and
within eighteen (18) inches of the left-hand curb of a one-way roadway when so
allowed by the city.
   (c)   Angle parking shall be allowed only in those locations designated by
the city.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1004.
Sec. 13-214. Parking prohibited in specified places, blocking sidewalk.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle at any time in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with law or ordinance or the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device:
   (1)   On a sidewalk, except as otherwise provided herein.
   (2)   In front of a public or private driveway
   (3)   Within an intersection
   (4)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant, except when a no parking
zone adjacent to a fire hydrant has been clearly marked with red paint as
approved by the Fire Marshal.
   (5)   On a marked crosswalk
   (6)   Within twenty (20) feet of a marked crosswalk at an intersection
   (7)   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway
   (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty (30) feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
the city indicates a different length by signs or markings
   (9)   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy-five (75) feet of the entrance when properly signposted
   (10)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic
   (11)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street
   (12)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway underpass
   (13)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing, or
parking.
   (14)   On Britton Road, Hefner Road, Pennsylvania Avenue, May Avenue or
Vineyard Boulevard.
   (b)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or away from a curb, such distance as is unlawful.
   (c)   No person shall park any motor vehicle on a residential driveway in
such a way as to block or impede access to a pedestrian pathway which crosses
the driveway between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7 p.m. (2022 City Code)
(Ord. No. 406, § 1, 5-3-88 Ord. No. 545, §2, 12-15-98; Ord. No 560 §1, 9-19-00)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1003.
Sec. 13-215. Authorized use of bus or taxicab stands.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand
has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver
of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping
does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter such zone.
Sec. 13-216. Stopping, standing, and parking of buses and taxicabs.
   (a)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand.
   (b)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
   (c)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen (18) inches from the curb
and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the
movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (d)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
Sec. 13-217. Commercial Vehicles and Construction equipment on residential
streets.
   All tractors, trailers, tow trucks, tractor-trailers, backhoes, or any other
similar commercial or construction related equipment, machine, or vehicles may
not park on the residential streets or highways of the city except during the
hours of actual construction or when loading or unloading. Members of the
police department are hereby authorized to cause tractors, trailers, tow
trucks, tractor-trailers, backhoes, or any other similar commercial or
construction related equipment, machines, or vehicles to be impounded where
there is a violation of this section. All impoundment expenses shall be the
obligation of the owner or operator of the vehicle and any impounded vehicle
will be released only after such charges are paid. All impoundment fees and
charges shall be in addition to any fines or costs in connection with
violations.
(Code 1976, § 15-3-7(c) Ord. No. 292, 6-2-81)
Sec. 13-218. Truck parking.
   No tractor-trailer, van, or similar vehicle may be parked on public or
private property within the city unless the city fire department is notified of
the vehicle location and contents, if any. The fire chief may require the
relocation of any such vehicle containing explosives or other volatile
substances.
(Code 1976, § 15-17-13)
Sec. 13-219. Parking of vehicles on posted private property.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to place or park any motor vehicle or any trailer
upon the posted private property of another, without first obtaining permission
from the landowner or the person in charge of such property, except where said
placing or parking is casual or involuntary.
   (b)   Violation of the terms of this section shall be considered to be an
offense and violators shall pay any and all reasonable and necessary charges
incurred by the landowner or other person in having any vehicle or trailer
removed from his property and stored.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1006. (Ord. No. 557, §1,
7-18-00)
Sec. 13-220. Vehicles, etc., Blocking Sidewalks, Obstructing Traffic.
   (a)   No bicycle, motorcycle, or other similar vehicle shall be parked or
left unattended in such a way as to obstruct traffic on public highways or in
areas set aside for public parking.
   (b)   No vehicle, bicycle, motorcycle, or other similar vehicle shall be
parked or left unattended on any sidewalk adjacent to any business open to the
public or any private membership meeting place in such a manner as to obstruct
pedestrian traffic on said sidewalk or interfere in any way with exit from or
entrance to such building. It shall be conclusively presumed to constitute an
obstruction if more than two (2) such vehicles are parked abreast on such a
sidewalk.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to block in any way, or to allow
to remain blocked in any way, a sidewalk that is adjacent to the person's
residence or residential lot, except as provided by Section 13-214, Subsection
(c) of this Chapter. (2022 City Code)
   (d)   Owners, managers, and employees of any business open to the public or
of any business open only to members shall be individually responsible to
maintain the sidewalks adjacent to their premises free from obstructions to
pedestrian traffic on adjacent sidewalks as required in subsection (b).
Violation of this section shall constitute an offense.
   (e)   Any law enforcement agent of the city may remove an offending vehicle
from the premises and impound the vehicle as security for the payment of the
necessary fines and expenses of impoundment.
   (f)   Vehicles impounded under this section shall be held a minimum of
thirty (30) days if fines and expenses have not been satisfied. After the
thirty-day period has passed, such vehicles may be sold at public auction by
the chief of police or his delegate according to rules and regulations for such
auctions duly promulgated by the city manager.
(Code 1976, § 15-15-7; 2022 City Code)
Sec. 13-221. Placing or Parking Vehicle in Parking Space Designated and Posted
for Physically Disabled Persons.
   a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor vehicle in
any parking space that is designated and posted as a reserved area for the
parking of a motor vehicle operated by or transporting a physically disabled
person unless such person has applied for and been issued a detachable placard
indicating physical disability under the provisions of Title 47 O.S. § 15-112,
and such placard is displayed as provided in said title or in rules adopted
pursuant thereto, or has applied for and been issued a physically disabled
license plate pursuant to the provisions of Title 47 O.S. § 1135.1 or 1135.2
and such license plate is displayed pursuant to the provisions of the Oklahoma
Vehicle License and Registration Act.
   b)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to place or park a motor
vehicle, whether with or without a physically disabled placard or plate, in any
disabled parking space access aisle, wheelchair ramp, wheelchair loading/
unloading area or any portion thereof.
   c)   Violation of these provisions shall be a misdemeanor and upon
conviction the person shall be guilty of a Class B Offense and subject to a
fine of up to two hundred ($200.00) dollars. Provided, any person cited for a
first offense of a violation of this section who has displayed a placard which
has expired pursuant to Title 47 O.S paragraph 4 or 5 of subsection D of
Section 15-112 shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge and shall not be
required to pay the fine or court costs if the person presents to the court
within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the citation a notice from the
Department of Public Safety that the person has obtained a valid placard
pursuant to the provisions of subsection D of Section 15-112 of this title.
(Ord. No. 704 §1, 04-21-2015)
   d)   In addition, vehicles unlawfully parked in violation of these
provisions shall be subject to immediate tow by a licensed tow truck operator
at the request of the landowner or a duly appointed agent of the landowner, at
the request of any person unable to lawfully gain access to or move their
vehicle, at the request of any person unable to lawfully gain access to the
area blocked by the unlawfully parked vehicle, or at the request of appropriate
law-enforcement personnel. The owner of any vehicle unlawfully parked in
violation of these provisions shall pay any and all reasonable and necessary
costs associated with towing and storage of the vehicle."
State law reference - Title 47 O.S. § 11-1007 et seq.
(Ord. No. 703 §1, 03-03-2015)
Sec. 13-222. Parking of travel trailers, boats, motor homes, watercraft,
trailers, and recreational vehicles.
   a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all travel trailers,
boats, motor homes, watercraft, trailers, and recreational vehicles of any kind
are prohibited from parking on any street or highway in the city at any time
except for the purposes of loading or unloading, which procedure shall be
limited to a total of two (2) hours.
(Ord. No. 386, §1. 7-21-87 Ord. No. 469, §1, 5-19-92)
   b)   No travel trailer, motor home, or recreational vehicle that:
   1)   is unregistered or unlicensed (as may be required by law); or
   2)   exceeds eight and one-half (8.5) feet in width, twenty-two (22) feet in
length, or nine (9) feet in height (including accessories such as loading arms
or frame-mounted equipment, but excluding rooftop equipment such as air
conditioning units and vents) shall be parked, stored, or occupied in the front
yard on any lot occupied by a dwelling or on any lot in any residential
district except for purposes of loading or unloading, which procedure shall be
limited to a total of forty-eight (48) hours.
Exception: When a residential dwelling has been destroyed or damaged, rendering
it unsuitable for human habitation, a travel trailer, motor home or
recreational vehicle may be parked, stored, or occupied in the driveway of the
destroyed or damaged home while the home is being rebuilt or repaired, but not
to exceed a period of nine (9) months, upon receipt of a permit from the City.
In addition, said travel trailer, motor home or recreational vehicle may exceed
the size limitations for width, height and length provided herein by no more
than ten (10%) percent, not including hitches, bumpers, bike racks, and other
similar attachments to the vehicle. (Ord. No. 767, §1, 06-06-2022)
   c) No boat or watercraft trailer shall be parked or stored in the front yard
of any lot occupied by a dwelling or in the front yard of any lot in any
residential district except for purposes of loading or unloading, which
procedure shall be limited to a total of forty-eight (48) hours.
   d) No travel trailer, boat, motor home, watercraft trailer, or recreational
vehicle shall be allowed in the front yard on any residential lot unless parked
in accordance with the provisions of Section
13-228 of this Chapter.
   e) A permit may be obtained from the city clerk for the temporary parking of
travel trailers, motor homes, or recreational vehicles on residential streets.
Travel trailers, motor homes, or recreational vehicles that have obtained a
temporary parking permit pursuant to this section shall not be subject to the
twenty-four (24) hour parking provisions contained in Section 13-224 of this
chapter. Said permit shall be in an amount established by resolution of the
city council and shall be issued in accordance with the following regulations:
   1)   No permit shall authorize temporary parking for more than four (4)
consecutive days.
   2)   No residence shall be allowed more than two (2) temporary parking
permits per calendar year.
   3)   All permits shall be subject to revocation if the parking of any motor
home or recreational vehicle is determined by the city to constitute a traffic
hazard.
   4)   Permits shall be placed on the trailer or vehicle in plain view at all
times.
   f)   The provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this Section shall
not apply to travel trailers, boats, motor homes, watercraft trailers, and
recreational vehicles that are currently or regularly parked on residential
lots within City limits as of October 1, 2019, provided that the owners or
person(s) entitled to possession of such vehicles register such vehicles on or
before that date by submitting the following information to the City:
   1)   Vehicle Identification Number and/or Hull Identification Number;
   2)   Name of owner(s) or person(s) entitled to possession, and the address
where the vehicle will be parked;
   3)   Current registration, if applicable; and
   4)   Proof of insurance.
   
To remain under the provisions of this paragraph, ownership, or entitlement to
possession of such vehicles and the address where such vehicles will be parked
must remain the same as originally registered with the City, and owners or
persons entitled to possession shall be required to submit proof of current
registration, if applicable, and insurance to the City annually on or before
October 1 each year.
(Ord. No. 469, §1, 5-19-92; Ord. No. 744, §2, 03-18-2018)
Cross references-Chapter 13, Sections
13-214 (C),
13-224.
Sec. 13-223. Parking of trucks, vans, commercial vehicles, buses, and trailers.
   a)   No bus or van in excess of one-half-ton capacity, dual-wheeled pickup
truck, commercial vehicle, or trailer may be parked on any street or highway
within the city between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except for the
purpose of loading or unloading, which procedure shall be limited to a total of
two (2) hours.
   b)   No bus or van designed to carry more than twelve passengers may be
parked on any residential lot or driveway, unless said bus or van is parked in
an enclosed area and out of public view.
   c)   No commercial vehicle or trailer may be parked within the front yard on
any residential lot or driveway unless said commercial vehicle or trailer is
less than:
   1)   Eight and one-half (8.5) feet in width;
   2)   Twenty-two (22) feet in length; and
   3)   Nine (9) feet in height (including frame-mounted accessories but
excluding rooftop equipment).
   d)   No truck, van, commercial vehicle, bus, or trailer shall be allowed on
any residential lot unless parked in accordance with the provisions of Section
13-228 of this Chapter.
   e)   The provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section shall not apply to
commercial vehicles or trailers that are currently or regularly parked on
residential lots within City limits as of October 1, 2019, provided that the
owners or those entitled to possession of such vehicles register such vehicles
on or before that date by submitting the following information to the City:
   1)   Vehicle Identification Number and/or Hull Identification Number;
   2)   Name of owner(s) or person(s) entitled to possession, and the address
where the vehicle will be parked;
   3)   Current registration, if applicable; and
   4)   Proof of insurance.
   To remain under the provisions of this paragraph, ownership, or entitlement
to possession of such vehicles and the address where such vehicles will be
parked must remain the same as originally registered with the City, and owners
or persons entitled to possession shall be required to submit proof of current
registration, if applicable, and insurance to the City annually on or before
October 1 each year.
(Ord. No. 386, §1, 7-21-87; Ord. No. 616, §1, 04-18-2006; 2014 City Code; Ord.
744, §3, 03-18-2018).
Sec. 13-224. Parked vehicles must be moved every twenty-four hours.
   All vehicles, which may properly be parked on the streets or highways of the
city, must be moved from the place where such vehicle is parked at least once
every twenty-four (24) hours. For the purpose of this section "moved" means
relocation of the vehicle away from the premises or from the street on which it
is located for at least fifteen (15) minutes.
(Ord. No. 386, § 1, 7-21-87)
Sec. 13-225. Unauthorized parking or sale of vehicles.
   1.   Commercial Areas:
   a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any
vehicle displaying a "For Sale" or similar sign in the parking lot area of any
commercially zoned property without the written authorization of the property
owner of said area. This section, however, shall not apply to any person who
has parked a vehicle displaying a "For Sale" or similar sign in said area for
the purpose of engaging in commercial activity with any of the businesses in
said area during regular business hours.
   b)   The prohibition in the above paragraph shall not apply unless the owner
of said area has posted a sign or signs no less than one square foot in area
bearing the inscription "Unauthorized and/or Non-Customer Parking Not
Permitted. Violators subject to Fine and Impoundment of Vehicles Under
Authority of City of The Village Ordinances" or words to this effect.
   c)   It shall be presumed that the owner of a vehicle referred to in this
section, which is parked in said area does not have the written permission of
the property owner of said area.
(Ord. No. 385, § 1, 7-21-87)
   1.   Residential Areas:
   a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into a residential area,
or park any vehicle on a residential street, for the sole purpose of offering
said vehicle for sale to the public.
   b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale in any
residential area, more than two (2) vehicles per calendar year.
   c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale more than one
vehicle at the same time in any residential area.
(Ord. No. 611, §1, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 13-226. Truck parking on commercial lots and on residentially zoned
property.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any
eighteen-wheel tractor-trailer unit, semi tractor, or semi trailer in the
parking lot of any commercially zoned district from 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 am. This
section shall not apply to any person who has parked said tractor-trailer unit,
semi tractor, or semi trailer for the purpose of loading or unloading it for a
business during its regular business hours. (Ord. No. 390, § 1, 8-4-87)
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any
eighteen-wheel tractor-trailer unit, semi tractor, or semi trailer in any
residentially zoned district, except for the purpose of loading or unloading
said truck. This paragraph shall not apply to any semi trailer parked or left
unattended as incidental and accessory to construction activities on any lot in
said district.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended in any
driveway located in a residentially zoned district any truck in excess of 3/
4 Ton capacity that is equipped with a flat or dump bed, except for the purpose
of loading or unloading said truck.
(Ord. No. 390, § 1, 8-4-87 Ord. No. 449, § 1, 8-21-90 Ord. No. 469, §2, 5-19-92
Ord. No. 557, §2, 7-18-00; Ord. No. 602 §1, 05-02-2005)
Sec. 13-227. Parking of vehicles transporting portable toilets.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle transporting a
portable outdoor toilet(s) on any residential property or street abutting
residential property in the city unless said portable outdoor toilet(s) are
completely screened from view by adequate sideboards or similar devices.
(Ord. No. 370, § 1, 7-15-86)
Sec. 13-228. Parking vehicles/farm equipment on paved surface, rights-of-way,
etc.
   1.   Parking on Unpaved Surfaces. Except as described in this Section, it
shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on any unpaved surface on
any residential or commercial lot.
   a.   Exception for rear yard and side yard behind the front building line of
interior lots. No more than one (1) vehicle may be parked on an unpaved surface
located in the rear yard, or in the portion of the side yard that is situated
behind the front building line, of any residential lot in the city, provided
that the following screening and load bearing design requirements are met:
   i.   Screening Requirements. Any vehicle parked on any unpaved surface must
be located behind a minimum six (6) foot high sight-proof fence erected so that
any vehicle so parked will not be visible from outside the premises.
   ii.   Design and load bearing requirements. Any unpaved surfaces upon which
a vehicle may be parked pursuant to this Section: (1) must consist of crushed
gravel, loose aggregate, or similar material; (2) must be provided as a surface
over a compacted base material sufficient to withstand the weight of the
vehicle to be parked on it; and (3) must be sufficiently designed, constructed,
or maintained to prevent erosion, rutting, and vegetation.
   2.   Maximum Number of Vehicles Permitted on a Residential Lot.
   a)   Each legal and current occupant of any single-family residence who
holds a valid Oklahoma Driver's License shall be allowed to park two (2)
passenger vehicles on the lot occupied by said residence provided however, that
in no instance shall more than six (6) vehicles be parked in an unenclosed
parking area on any residential lot occupied as a single-family residence.
   b)   No more than two (2) vehicles may be stored in an unenclosed parking
area on any unoccupied or vacant single-family residential property.
   c)   No more than three (3) vehicles falling under any of the following
defined classifications may be parked on any residential property at any given
time: trailer, boat, bus, travel trailer, watercraft trailer, motor home,
commercial vehicle, or recreational vehicle. Additionally, no more than one (1)
such vehicle may be parked without being screened from public view within or
behind a building or behind a sight-proof fence.
   d)   Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed to supersede or
negate other parking regulations contained in this chapter, including by not
limited to, provisions relating to parking on a paved surface parking in the
front, side and rear yards, sight-proof fencing green area requirements, and
vehicle size or categorical restrictions.
   3.   Exposure of Unpaved Rights-of-Way to Vehicle Traffic. It shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to allow the unpaved right-of-way
adjacent to the front or side property line of any lot to be subjected to
continued exposure of vehicle traffic so as to create mud, dust, or ruts in
said right-of-way.
   a)   City street rights-of-way shall not be paved or used for vehicle
parking except for ingress and egress driveways or as may otherwise be provided
for herein.
   b)   Parking of Farm or Commercial Equipment. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park, place, keep, or maintain on any residential lot in the city any
farm or commercial equipment, regardless of use or purpose, without storing
said farm or commercial equipment behind a minimum six (6) foot high sight-
proof fence so that said farm or commercial equipment will not be visible from
outside the premises.
   4.   Parking of Farm or Commercial Equipment. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park, place, keep, or maintain on any residential lot in the city any
farm or commercial equipment, regardless of use or purpose, without storing
said farm or commercial equipment behind a minimum six (6) foot high sight-
proof fence so that said farm or commercial equipment will not be visible from
outside the premises.
   5.   Parking on Driveways and Other Paved Surfaces.
   a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park upon a paved portion of the right-
of-way used for an ingress and egress driveway, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading, any vehicle, which by virtue of its length or height,
creates a sight restriction for motorists using an adjacent ingress-egress
driveway.
   b)   No vehicles shall be parked so as to encroach on any paved portion of
the right-of-way, including a paved portion of the right-of-way used for an
ingress and egress driveway. Recreational vehicles or motor homes tagged with a
legal and current handicap license plate shall be exempt from this subsection.
(Ord. No. 643, §1, 09-15-2009)
   6.   Exemptions. The following vehicles shall be exempt from the provisions
of this section:
   a)   Vehicles engaged in the construction and/or maintenance of utilities,
buildings, or properties when parking on an unpaved surface is necessary to
facilitate the timely completion of the activity; and
   b)   Vehicles parked at YMCAs, schools, churches or public property during
sporting events, carnivals, circuses, and similar public events when adequate
paved parking space is not available.
   7.   Additional Uses Not Authorized.
   a)   This section shall not be deemed to allow uses in any zoning district
where the provisions of any such zoning district do not expressly allow such
use.
   b)   This section shall not be deemed to authorize the erection of any fence
on property that does not conform to other applicable building regulations or
area regulations to which the authorized use of the property is subject.
(Ord. No 744, §4, 03-18-2018)
Sec. 13-229. Commercial parking, sale of certain vehicles in residential
districts prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any property in residential zoned
districts for commercial parking purposes, including but not limited to, the
sale or offer to sell of automobiles, trucks, buses, vans, boats, recreational
vehicles, motor scooters or motorcycles, except in connection with, or as an
accessory to the primary use of such property for residential purposes.
(Ord. No. 312, §1(12-6-16), 11-16-82 Ord. No. 508, § 1, 9-20-94)
Sec. 13-230. Parking, current inspection sticker, and registration to be
displayed.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle parked on any public street or right-of-way within
the city is required to display on the rear of said vehicle the current year's
license plate issued by the state or any other state in the United States, the
United States Government or by any Native American Tribe recognized by the
State of Oklahoma. Such plate shall be so placed on the vehicle so that the
plate may be read or seen at all times during the day or night. Said plates
shall be kept reasonably clean and clear of mud, grease, dirt, or any other
substance in order that the same may be easily seen, discerned, and read.
   
   (b)   Vehicles found in violation of subsection (a) above are subject to the
issuance of a parking citation and/or impoundment.
(Ord. No. 550, §1, 1-4-00 Ord. No. 557, §3, 7-18-00)
Sec. 13-231. Parking or placement of storage pods.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place a storage pod on
any public street, approach, easement, right-of-way, or unpaved surface.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place a storage pod on
any private driveway for more than thirty (30) consecutive days in any calendar
year.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place a storage pod on
any residential property without first having secured a permit from the City.
The amount of the permit shall be established by resolution of the City
Council. (2008 Code)
(2006 City Code; 2008 City Code)
Section 13-232. Placement of commercial roll off dumpsters.
   a)   Time Period. It shall be unlawful for any person to place a twenty yard
or larger commercial roll off dumpster on residential property for more than
ninety (90) consecutive days in any twelve (12) month period. This subsection
shall not apply to new residential subdivisions where new housing is under
construction.
   b)   Placement Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to park or
place a commercial roll off dumpster on any public street, approach, easement,
or right-of-way.
   c)   Remedies. Commercial roll off dumpsters that are placed in violation of
this section are declared a public nuisance and shall be subject to summary
abatement and removal by the City.
(Ord. 646, §1, 10-06-2009)
Sec. 13-233. Vehicles Parked in Driveways; extension into street unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle, boat or trailer, or any equipment or
material placed in or attached thereto, parked in a driveway to extend into the
street past the curb.
(Ord. 672, §1, 07-17-2012; Ord. 725, §2, 03-20-2017)
Secs. 13-234--13-255. Reserved.
ARTICLE X. PEDESTRIANS
Sec. 13-256. Subject to traffic regulations.
   (a)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (b)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
as provided in sections
13-50 and
13-51 of this Code.
   (c)   At all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and
shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-501.
Sec. 13-257. Right-of-way in crosswalks.
   (a)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if
need be, to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle, which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield.
State law reference--Pedestrians generally, 47 O.S. § 11-501 et seq.
   (c)   Subsection (a) shall not apply under the conditions stated in
subsection (b) of section
13-258 of this Code.
   (d)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-502.
Sec. 13-258. When pedestrian shall yield.
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (c)   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in section
13-259 of this Code, when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain
designated places.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-503.
Sec. 13-259. Use of crosswalks.
   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-503.
Sec. 13-260. Use of right half of crosswalks.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-505.
Sec. 13-261. Walking on roadways.
   (a)   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (b)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway
or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction
and shall yield to approaching vehicles.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-506.
Sec. 13-262. Persons soliciting rides or business not to stand in roadway.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride,
donation, employment, or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-507.
Sec. 13-263. Stopping vehicles to solicit prohibited.
   No person shall stand in or beside any highway in the city and stop or
attempt to stop and engage any person in any vehicle for the purpose of
soliciting donations or sell or attempt to sell anything to any person in any
vehicle or hand or attempt to hand to any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill, or any political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir, or gift or in any manner attempt to interfere with the normal flow of
traffic for any other similar purpose.
(Code 1976, § 15-17-12(b))
Sec. 13-264. Drivers to exercise due care.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this article, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-504.
Secs. 13-265--13-280. Reserved.
ARTICLE XI. BICYCLES AND PLAY VEHICLES
Sec. 13-281. Compliance, parental responsibility, and scope.
   (a)   It is an offense for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this article.
   (b)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this article.
   (c)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles subject to the exceptions stated herein.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1201.
Sec. 13-282. Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles.
A.   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of this city applicable to the driver of
a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this article and except as to
those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
B.   When overtaking and passing a bicycle proceeding in the same direction, a
person driving a motor vehicle shall exercise due care by leaving a safe
distance between the motor vehicle and the bicycle of not less than three (3)
feet until the motor vehicle is safely past the overtaken bicycle.
C.   If a person violates the provisions of Subsection B of this section and
the violation results in a collision causing serious physical injury to another
person, the person shall be subject to a fine of not more than Five Hundred
Dollars ($500.00).
D.   If a person violates the provisions of Subsection B of this section and
the violation results in the death of another person, the person shall be
subject to a fine of not more than Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($750.00),
in addition to any other penalties prescribed by law.
(Ord. No, 619, §4, 08-01-2006)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1202, §11-1208.
Sec. 13-283. Impoundment of bicycles.
   Any bicycle found upon any of the streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or
public ways, or upon private property not under the control of the owner of the
bicycle, and not licensed as herein required, or which does not otherwise
comply with the provisions hereof, shall be impounded until compliance is made.
Abandoned bicycles shall be seized and impounded for safekeeping by the police
department.
(Code 1976, § 15-18-6)
Secs. 13-284, 13-286. Reserved
Sec. 13-287. Clinging to vehicles.
   No person on foot, riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or
toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1204.
Sec. 13-290. Equipment.
   (a)   Every bicycle in use at the times described by subsection B of Section
12-201 of Title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front emitting a white light visible from a distance of at least one
thousand (1,000) feet to the front, provided however that this section shall
not apply to a street or highway with a speed limit of twenty-five (25) miles
per hour or less. Title 47. O.S. §12-702.
   (b)   Every bicycle in use at the times described by subsection B of Section
12-201 of Title 47 of the Oklahoma Statutes shall be equipped with a lamp on
the rear emitting a red light visible from a distance of at least one thousand
(1000) feet to the rear, provided however that this section shall not apply to
a street or highway with a speed limit of twenty-five (25) miles per hour or
less. Title 47. O.S. §12-703.
   (c)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a lighted lamp visible from both
sides from a distance of at least one thousand (1000) feet, provided however
that this section shall not apply to a street or highway with a speed limit of
twenty-five (25) miles per hour or less. Title 47. O.S. §12-705.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 12-702 et seq.
Sec. 13-291. Skateboards.
   No person shall ride or propel a skateboard upon May Avenue, Hefner Road,
Britton Road, or Pennsylvania Avenue.
Secs. 13-292--13-305. Reserved.
ARTICLE XII. MAINTENANCE, CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY ZONES
Sec. 13-306. Driving through safety zone prohibited.
   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone or
island.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1301.
Sec. 13-307. Maintenance and construction zones, etc.
   (a)   City personnel or contractors, while repairing or improving the
streets of the city, and city personnel and utility companies, when installing,
improving, or repairing lines or other utility facilities in the streets, are
hereby authorized as necessary, subject to control by the city council to close
any street or section thereof to traffic during such repair, maintenance, or
construction and in exercising such authority, shall erect or cause to be
erected proper control devices and barricades to warn and notify the public
that the street has been closed to traffic.
   (b)   When any street has been closed to traffic under the provisions of
subsection (a) or pursuant to state law and traffic-control devices or
barricades have been erected, it is unlawful for any person to drive any
vehicle through, under, over, or around such traffic-control devices or
barricades, or otherwise to enter the closed area except that the provisions of
this subsection shall not apply to persons while engaged in such construction,
maintenance, and repair, or to persons entering therein for the protection of
lives or property provided that persons having their places of residence or
places of business within the closed area may travel, when possible to do so,
through the area at their own risk.
State law reference--Maintenance, construction, and safety zones, 47 O.S. § 11-
1301 et seq.
   (c)   Whenever construction, repair or maintenance of any street or utility
line or facility is being performed under traffic, the city personnel,
contractor or utility company concerned shall erect, or cause to be erected,
traffic-control devices to warn and guide the public and every person using
such street shall obey all signs, signals, markings, flagmen, or other traffic-
control devices which are placed to regulate, control, and guide traffic
through the construction or maintenance area.
   (d)   No person shall remove, change, modify, deface, or alter any traffic-
control device or barricade, which has been erected on any highway under the
provisions of this section.
   (e)   Nothing in this section shall relieve the state or any of its
subdivisions or their contractors, agents, servants, or employees from
liability for failure to perform any of the duties imposed herein.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1302.
Secs. 13-308--13-320. Reserved.
ARTICLE XIII. MOTORCYCLES, ETC.
Sec. 13-323. Required equipment.
   The following equipment shall be required on all motorcycles and all motor
scooters being operated and driven in the city:
   (1)   Rear view mirrors. All vehicles covered under this section shall be
equipped with two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface of not less than
three (3) inches in diameter, mounted one on each side of the vehicle and
positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the roadway for a
distance of two hundred (200) feet to the rear of his vehicle.
   (2)   Windshield. All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped
with a windshield of sufficient quality, size, and thickness to protect the
operator from foreign objects, except that in lieu of such windshield the
operator shall wear goggles or face shield of material and design to protect
him from foreign objects.
   (3)   Brakes. All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of same to stop and hold such vehicles,
including two (2) separate means of applying the brakes to the front wheel and
one means shall be effective to apply the brakes to the rear wheels. All such
vehicles shall be equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the vehicle, which
shall display a red or amber light, or any shade of color between red and
amber, visible from a distance of not less than one hundred (100) feet to the
rear in normal sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon application of the
service brake.
   (4)   Speedometer. All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped
with a properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least the
maximum legal speed limit for that vehicle.
   (5)   Fenders. All vehicles covered under this section shall be equipped
with a fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the
manufacturer.
   (6)   Lights. All vehicles covered under this section shall carry at least
one lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at least three
hundred (300) feet in the direction in which the same are proceeding, and one
tail lamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a red light
plainly visible from at least three hundred (300) feet to the rear, and such
lights required by this section shall be burning whenever such vehicles are in
motion during the period from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour
before sunrise and at any other time when, due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the streets are not
clearly discernible at a distance of at least five hundred (500) feet ahead.
   (7)   Headgear. No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall operate or
ride upon any vehicle covered under this section unless such person is equipped
with and wearing on the head a crash helmet of a type, which complies with
standards established, by the state. All crash helmets shall consist of lining,
padding, and chin straps and be of the type as not to distort the view of the
driver.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 40-105.
Sec. 13-324. Driver's license.
   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor driven cycle or a motorized
bicycle on the streets within the city without first having obtained a Class A,
B, C, or D license with a motorcycle endorsement.
(Ord. No. 493, § 1, 10-19-93)
Sec 13-325. Special rules for motorized scooters, motor-driven cycles, and
motor-driven bicycles.
(A)   Motorized Scooters and Motor-Driven Cycles:
   (1)   No person shall operate any motor-driven cycle at a speed greater than
the legally posted speed limit; provided, in no event nor at any time shall any
operator drive a motor-driven cycle at a speed greater than thirty-five (35)
miles per hour;
   (2)   No person shall operate a motorized scooter at a speed greater than
the legally posted speed limit; provided, in no event nor at any time shall any
operator drive a motorized scooter at a speed greater than twenty-five (25)
miles per hour, or on any roadway with a posted speed limit of greater than
twenty-five (25) miles per hour.
   (3)   Operators of motorized scooters and motor-driven cycles shall wear
goggles or a face shield, and all operators under the age of eighteen (18)
years shall wear protective headgear meeting the standards established by the
State of Oklahoma.
   (4)   Motor-driven cycles operated on City streets shall be equipped with
all lights and equipment required for motorcycles by Oklahoma law.
   (5)   No motor-driven cycle or motorized scooter shall be driven on any
public street between sunset and sunrise.
(B) Motorized Scooters and Bicycles.
   (1)   Every person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as is safe to the right-hand curb
or edge of the roadway, except under any of the following situations:
   (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction;
   (b)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway;
   (c)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions and while exercising due
care, including bur not limited to:
   i.   Fixed or moving objects;
   ii.   Parked or moving vehicles;
   iii.   Pedestrians or animals;
   iv.   Surface hazards; or,
   v.   Any time it is unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge of
the roadway.
   (d) When riding in the right-turn-only lane.
   (2)   Any person riding a bicycle or motorized scooter upon a one-way street
or highway with two or more marked lanes of travel may ride as close as is safe
to the left-hand curb or edge of the street or highway.
   (3)   No person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall pass other
vehicles between lanes of traffic traveling the same direction.
   (4)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized scooters upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles or motorized scooters. Persons riding two abreast
shall not impede the normal and reasonable flow of traffic and, on a laned
roadway, shall ride within a single lane.
   (5)   A Class A, B, C, or D license, but no motorcycle endorsement, is
required to operate an electric-assisted bicycle.
   (6)   No person operating a bicycle or motorized scooter shall carry any
package, bundle, or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand on the handlebars.
   (7)   No person riding upon any bicycle or motorized scooter shall attach
the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   (8)   A person propelling a bicycle or motorized scooter shall not ride
other than astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (9)   No bicycle or motor scooter shall be used to carry more persons at one
time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (10)   Persons shall ride a bicycle or motor scooter only in the manner in
which it is designed and equipped to carry them.
(Ord. No. 619, §3, 08-01-2006)
(C) All motor vehicles shall comply with all rules of the road in operation of
a vehicle on the public streets.
Secs. 13-326--13-335 Reserved.
ARTICLE XIV. VEHICLE EQUIPMENT, CONDITION, ETC.
Sec. 13-336. Equipment generally.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person to drive or move, or for the
owner to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway or
street any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition
as to endanger any person or which does not contain those parts or is not at
all times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required by 47 O.S. § 12-101 et seq., or which is equipped in any
manner in violation of said law or for any person to do any act forbidden or
fail to perform any act required under said law.
(1986 Code §13-336 Ord. No. 477, §§1, 2, 8-4-92; Ord. No. 526, §1, 5-6-96)
State law reference--Vehicle equipment, 47 O.S. § 12-101 et seq.
Sec. 13-337. Unsafe conditions, etc.
   No person shall drive or move on any highway or street any motor vehicle,
trailer, semi trailer or pole trailer, or any combination of vehicles, unless
the equipment upon any and every said vehicle is in good working order and
adjustment as required by law and said vehicle is in such safe mechanical
condition as not to endanger the driver or other occupant of any vehicle upon
the highway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 13-101.
Sec. 13-338. Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise
and annoying smoke, and no person shall use a muffler cut-out, bypass, or
similar device upon a motor vehicle on a highway. No person shall modify the
exhaust system of a motor vehicle in any manner, which will amplify or increase
the noise or sound emitted louder than that emitted by the muffler originally
installed on the vehicle.
State law reference--Mufflers, 47 O.S. § 12-402.
Sec. 13-339. Width, height, length, weight, and load.
   No person shall drive or convey through any street any vehicle the width,
height, length, weight, or load of which exceeds that authorized by state law,
except in accordance with a permit issued by state authority or by the chief of
police.
State law reference--Size, weight, and load restrictions, 47 O.S. § 14-101 et
seq.
Cross-reference--Motor vehicle pollution control devices, § 3-22.
Sec. 13-340. Trucks.
   No eighteen-wheel or other vehicle used primarily or exclusively for the
purpose of hauling cars, trucks, and other vehicles, whether loaded or not, or
any tractor or tractor trailer rig shall be permitted to use or drive upon any
street if the street is abutted by residences or other types of living quarters
except on May Avenue, Hefner Road, Britton Road, and Pennsylvania Avenue.
(Ord. No. 264, § 1(15-17-1), 8-7-79 Ord. No. 275, § 1, 1-15-80)
Sec. 13-341. Towing vehicles.
   When any vehicle is drawn along the highways of this city by means of ropes,
cables, or other method of towing, which are attached to any other vehicle, the
total length of such ropes, cables or material used shall be so fastened to
each said vehicle that the distance between the towing vehicle and the towed
vehicle shall not exceed twelve (12) feet in length.
(Code 1976, § 15-17-9)
Sec. 13-342. Dismissal of Charges upon Remedy of Defective Condition.
Any person producing proof within forty-eight (48) hours that a condition or
equipment for which the person was cited as defective, missing, prohibited,
improper, unauthorized, or otherwise in violation of this chapter has been
remedied by the person shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge without
assessment of court costs.
(Ord. No. 587, §3, 10-7-2003)
State law reference--Vehicle inspection stickers, 47 O.S. § 851 et seq.
Sec. 13-343. Vehicle license tag/sticker.
   (a)   It shall be an offense for any person to operate a motor vehicle
without displaying on the rear of said vehicle the current year's license plate
and sticker issued by the State or any other State in the United States or the
United States Government. Such plate and sticker shall be so placed on the
vehicle so that the plate may be read or seen at all times during the day or
night. Said plates and stickers shall be kept reasonably clean and clear of
mud, grease, dirt, or any other substance in order that the same may be easily
seen, discerned, and read.
(Ord. No. 684 § 1, 04-16-2013)
   (b)   Subsection (a) does not apply to vehicles stored in enclosed
buildings.
   (c)   The police department is authorized to impound vehicles found in
violation of subsection (a) above, provided that the vehicle's annual
registration has been expired more than ninety (90) days. A vehicle impounded
pursuant to this section shall not be released to the owner until it is duly
registered and the license, registration, or title fee and penalties due are
paid in full, proof of security or an affidavit that the vehicle will not be
used on public highways or public streets, as required pursuant to O.S. Title
47 Section 7-600, et. seq. is furnished, and the cost of seizure including the
reasonable cost of taking the vehicle into custody and storing the vehicle,
have been paid.
(Ord. No. 552, §1, 1-18-00)
   (d)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed as to
illuminate with a light the rear registration plate and render it clearly
legible from a distance of fifty (50) feet to the rear. Any tail lamp or tail
lamps together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear registration
plate shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the headlamps, clearance
lamps, or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(Code 1976, § 15-11-9 Ord. No. 500, § 1, 3-15-94)
State law reference--Licensing and use of wreckers and towing services, 47 O.S.
§ 951 et seq.
Sec. 13-344. Inspection by police
   Police officers shall have authority to inspect and test any vehicle upon
the streets of the city at any time to determine whether it is safe, whether it
is properly equipped, and/or whether its equipment is in proper adjustment and
repair.
State law reference--Refusal to allow inspection, 47 O.S. § 13-103.
Sec. 13-345. Window tint.
   It shall be an offense for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon public
roads and streets of this city on which the percentage of tint on the front
windshield, the side windows to the immediate right or left of the driver, [or]
the side wings forward of and to the left and right of the driver, exceed
thirty (30) percent tint available as a factory option or after-market
application.
(Ord. No. 428, § 1, 9-5-89)
Secs. 13-346--13-355. Reserved.
ARTICLE XV. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
Sec. 13-356. Eluding police officer.
   Any operator of a motor vehicle who has received a visual and audible
signal, a red light and a siren from a police officer driving a motor vehicle
showing the same to be an official police patrol car directing the said
operator to bring his vehicle to a stop and who willfully increases his speed
or extinguishes his lights in an attempt to elude such police officer, or
willfully attempts in any other manner to elude the police officer or who does
elude such police officer, is guilty of an offense.
(Code 1976, § 10-16-3, 15-17-11)
Cross-reference--Offenses against public authority, §
12-16 et seq.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 21 O.S. § 540A.
Sec. 13-357. Unattended motor vehicle.
   (a)   The person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall not permit it
to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, and effectively setting
the brake thereon and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels
to the curb or side of the highway.
   (b)   No person shall back a vehicle across lanes on a thoroughfare.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1101.
Sec. 13-358. Limitations on backing.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be backed upon any street or highway except for such
distance as may be necessary to permit the vehicle to enter the proper driving
lane from a parked position. Such backing shall be done only after the driver
of said vehicle has ascertained that such movement can be made without
endangering other traffic.
   (b)   No person shall back a vehicle across lanes on a thoroughfare.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1102.
Sec. 13-359. Riding on motorcycles, etc.
   No person shall drive a motorcycle, motor scooter, or a motor bicycle while
transporting more than one passenger, except a motorcycle, motor scooter, or
motor bicycle factory-designed for the purpose of carrying additional
passengers.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1103.
Sec. 13-360. Driver's view not to be obstructed.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to
obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to
interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (c)   No school bus shall be operated on the streets or highways in the city
when loaded with passengers in excess of the number of which such bus is
designed to carry. The number of passengers as determined by the local school
board, which the bus is designed to carry, shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the bus.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1104.
Sec. 13-361. Opening and closing vehicle doors.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1105.
Sec. 13-362. Coasting.
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle when traveling on a downgrade shall not
coast with the gears of such vehicle in neutral.
   (b)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a downgrade shall
not coast with the clutch, disengaged.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1107.
Sec. 13-363. Following fire apparatus prohibited.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle other than one (1) on official business
shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm
closer than five hundred (500) feet or drive into or park such vehicle within
the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. The
driver of any vehicle other than one (1) on official business shall not follow
any emergency vehicle or shall not purposely drive to any location on a highway
where an emergency exists which would interfere with the free movement of
authorized emergency vehicles or any other traffic using the highway at that
location.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, the definition of emergency shall
include traffic accidents, airplane accidents, disasters, explosions, civil
disturbances and (without limitation by the foregoing) any other related
circumstances which tend to cause traffic congestion.
   (c)   The purpose of this section is to eliminate sightseers and other
persons who do not have official business at the scene of an emergency, and
whose presence would tend to cause traffic congestion.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. 11-1108.
Sec. 13-364. Crossing fire hose.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the fire department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department official in command.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1109.
Sec. 13-365. Putting glass, etc., on highway.
   (a)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any glass bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substances likely to injure any
person, animal, or vehicle upon such highway.
   (b)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same
or cause it to be removed.
   (c)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the highway from
such vehicle.
   (d)   No person shall throw any substance at a standing vehicle or any
occupant thereof, nor shall any person throw any substance at a person on or
adjacent to the highway.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 47 O.S. § 11-1110.
Sec. 13-366. Driving through service drives and private residential driveways.
   No person shall drive any vehicle through any service drive or any
residential driveway without stopping, where such service drive or residential
driveway is located at a street intersection within the city. It is the intent
of this section to make it unlawful to drive any vehicle through such service
drive or residential driveway for the purposes of avoiding a stop sign or
traffic-control signal at such intersection or for the purpose of traveling
from one street or thoroughfare to another or for the purpose of traveling in
the opposite direction on the same street or thoroughfare when the driver of
such vehicle does not intend to transact business on the premises or visit the
premises where such service drive or residential driveway is located. (Code
1976, § 15-17-5; Ord. No. 701 §1, 02-03-2015)
Sec. 13-367. Driving through funeral or other procession.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required. This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or police
officers.
(Code 1976, § 15-7-1)
Sec. 13-368. Drivers in a procession.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway a practicable and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practicable and safe.
State law reference--Municipal authority to regulate processions, 47 O.S. § 15-
102(a) 3.
Sec. 13-369. Driving vehicle on sidewalk.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon a sidewalk or within any
sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway, except as provided
by Section
13-214, Subsection (c) of this Chapter.
Sec. 13-370. Boarding or alighting from vehicles.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Code 1976, § 15-17-6)
Sec. 13-371. Riding in portions of vehicles not intended for passengers.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers.
(Code 1976, § 15-17-2)
Sec. 13-372. Texting while driving.
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
street or highway within this city while using a hand-held electronic
communication device to manually compose, send or read an electronic text
message while the motor vehicle is in motion.
B.   Any person who violates the provisions of subsection A of this section
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than One Hundred
Dollars ($100.00).
C.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not apply if the
person is using the cellular telephone or electronic communication device for
the sole purpose of communicating with any of the following regarding an
imminent emergency situation:
   1.   An emergency response operator;
   2.   A hospital, physician's office, or health clinic;
   3.   A provider of ambulance services;
   4.   A provider of firefighting services; or
   5.   A law enforcement agency.
D.   For the purpose of this section:
   1.   "Cellular telephone" means an analog or digital wireless telephone
authorized by the Federal Communications Commission to operate in the frequency
bandwidth reserved for cellular telephones;
   2.   "Compose", "send," or "read" with respect to a text message means the
manual entry, sending or retrieval of a text message to communicate with any
person or device;
   3.   "Electronic communication device" means an electronic device that
permits the user to manually transmit a communication of written text by means
other than through an oral transfer or wire communication. This term does not
include a device that is physically or electronically integrated into a motor
vehicle or a voice-operated global positioning or navigation system that is
affixed to a motor vehicle, or a hands-free device that allows the user to
write, send or read a text message without the use of either hand except to
activate, deactivate or initiate a feature or function; and
   4.   "Text message" includes a text-based message, instant message,
electronic message, photo, video, or electronic mail.
E.   Chapter 13, Section
13-372 shall become effective November 1, 2015.
State law reference - Title 47, O.S. Section 11-901d
(Ord. No. 708, §1, 07-21-2015)
CHAPTER 14
MUNICIPAL COURT
Charter reference--Municipal court,
34.
Cross references--Penalty for violation of code,
1-9; failure to appear in court,
12-16; offenses against public authority,
12-16 et seq.; payment of traffic fines in advance,
13-33.
Sec. 14-1. Scope.
This chapter shall govern the organization and operation of the municipal court
of the city as put into operation by resolution duly passed on January 21,
1969, and filed in accordance with law.
(Code 1976, 9-1-1)
State law reference--Authority to create municipal court, 11 O.S. 27-101.
Sec. 14-2. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Clerk means the city clerk, including any deputy or member of the office staff
of the clerk while performing duties of the clerk's office.
Court means the municipal court not of record of this city.
Judge means the judge of the municipal court; aforesaid, including any acting
judge or alternate judge thereof as provided for by the statutes of this state,
and this chapter.
(Code 1976, 9-1-2)
Sec. 14-3. Jurisdiction.
The court shall exercise original jurisdiction to hear and determine all
prosecutions wherein a violation of any ordinance of this city is charged,
including any such prosecutions transferred to the court in accordance with
applicable law.
(Code 1976, 9-1-3)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O.S. 27-103.
Sec. 14-4. Judge generally.
   (a)   There shall be one (1) judge of the court. The judge must be duly
licensed to practice law in the state. He may engage in the practice of law in
other courts, but he shall not accept employment inconsistent with his duties
as judge or arising out of facts which give rise to or are connected with cases
within the jurisdiction of the court, pending therein or which might become the
subject of proceedings therein.
   (b)   The judge is appointed for an indefinite term and may be terminated at
will by the city council.
(Code 1976, 9-1-4, 9-1-5)
State law reference--Judge generally, 11 O.S. 27-104.
Sec. 14-5. Alternate judge.
   There shall be appointed an alternate judge, possessed of the same
qualifications as the judge. His appointment shall be for the same term and
made in the same manner as the judge. He shall sit as acting judge of the court
in any case if the judge is absent from the court, unable to act as judge, or
disqualified from acting as judge in the case.
(Code 1976, 9-1-6)
State law reference--Alternate judges, 11 O.S. 27-106.
Sec. 14-6. Acting judge.
   If, at any time, there is no judge or alternate judge, duly appointed and
qualified, available to sit as judge, the city council shall appoint some
person, possessing the qualifications required by this chapter for the judge,
who shall preside, as acting judge, over the court in the disposition of
pending matters until such time as a judge or alternate judge shall be
available.
(Code 1976, 9-1-7)
State law reference--Acting judges, 11 O.S. 27-106.
Sec. 14-7. Appointment of judges.
   Judges and alternate judges shall be appointed by the city council.
(Code 1976, 9-1-8)
State law reference--Appointment of judges, 11 O.S. 27-104, 27-106.
Sec. 14-8. Removal of judges.
   Judges shall be subject to removal from office by the city council.
(Code 1976, 9-1-9)
Sec. 14-9. Vacancies in office of judge.
A vacancy in the office of judge shall occur if the incumbent:
   (1)   Dies;
   (2)   Resigns;
   (3)   Ceases to possess the qualifications for the office; or
   (4)   Is removed, and the removal proceeding has been affirmed finally in
judicial proceedings or is no longer subject to judicial review.
   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of judge, the city council
shall appoint a successor to complete the un-expired term, upon the same
procedure as an original appointment is made.
(Code 1976, 9-1-10)
State law reference--Vacancies in office of judge, 11 O.S. 27-107.
Sec. 14-10. Change of venue; disqualification of judge.
In prosecutions before the court, no change of venue shall be allowed. The
judge before whom the case is pending may certify his disqualification or he
may be disqualified from sitting under the terms, conditions and procedure
provided by law for courts of record. If a judge is disqualified, the matter
shall be heard by an alternate or acting judge.
(Code 1976, 9-1-11)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O.S. 27-105.
Sec. 14-11. Clerk.
(a) The city clerk, or a deputy designated by the city clerk, shall be the
clerk of the court. The court clerk shall assist the judge in recording the
proceedings of the court and preparing writs, processes, and other papers. The
court clerk shall administer oaths required in proceedings before the court and
shall enter all pleadings, processes, and proceedings in the dockets of the
court. The court clerk shall perform such other clerical duties relating to the
proceedings of the court, as the judge shall direct and shall receive and
receipt forfeitures, fees, deposits, and sums of money payable to the court.
The court clerk shall pay to the treasurer of this municipality all such money,
except such special deposits or fees as shall be received to be disbursed by
the court for special purposes. All money paid to the treasurer shall be placed
in the general fund of the municipality, or in such other fund as the city
council may direct, and it shall be used in the operation of the municipal
government in accordance with budgetary arrangements governing the fund in
which it is placed.
(b) The clerk of the court shall give bond, in the form provided by law in the
sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). When executed, said bond shall be
submitted to the city for approval. When approved, it shall be filed with the
city clerk and retained in the municipal archives.
(Code 1976, 9-1-13, 9-1-15)
State law reference--Clerk, 11 O.S. 27-109, 27-111.
Sec. 14-12. Prosecutor.
The city prosecutor, or his duly appointed assistant shall be the prosecuting
officer of the court. He shall prosecute all alleged violations of all
ordinances. He shall be authorized, in his discretion, to prosecute and resist
appeals, proceedings in error and review from the municipal court to any other
courts of the state, and to represent this city in all proceedings arising out
of matters in the municipal court.
(Code 1976, 9-1-14; 2014 City Code)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O.S. 27-108.
Sec. 14-13. Writs or process.
All writs or process of the court shall be directed, in the appropriate
official title, to the chief of police who shall be the principal officer of
the court.
(Code 1976, 9-1-12)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O.S. 27-110.
Sec. 14-14. Cash bond fund.
The city clerk and the city treasurer shall establish a bank account to be
designated as "The Village Municipal Court Cash Bond Fund." All cash bonds
posted for violations of ordinances shall be deposited in such fund. All cash
bonds posted for violations of ordinances shall be regularly deposited to this
fund. When it is determined by the judge that any such bond shall be returned
to the person posting the same, in whole, or in part, and approved by the city
clerk, the city treasurer shall prepare and give to the person posting such
bond a check in the appropriate amount as the method of returning the posted
cash bond, in whole or in part, to such person.
From time to time all monies in the fund, which represent forfeitures as,
determined by the judge and the city clerk, shall be transferred to the general
fund.
(Ord. No. 259, 1(9-1-13a), 8-7-79)
Sec. 14-15. Rules.
The judge may prescribe rules, consistent with the laws of the state and with
the ordinances of this city, for the proper conduct of the business of the
court.
(Code 1976, 9-1-16)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O. S. 27-114.
Sec. 14-16. Contempt of court.
(a)   Obedience to the orders, rules and judgments made by the judge or by the
court may be enforced by the judge, who may fine or imprison for contempt
committed while holding court, or committed against process issued by the
judge, in the same manner and to the same extent as the district courts of this
state.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in contempt of court. Any
person in contempt of court shall be guilty of a Class A offense punishable by
a fine not to exceed Seven Hundred and Fifty ($750.00) Dollars and up to sixty
(60) days imprisonment or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Code 1976, 9-1-17)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O.S. 27-125.
Sec. 14-17. Style of prosecutions; filing of complaints.
All prosecutions for violation of ordinances of this municipality shall be
styled "The City of The Village, Oklahoma v. naming defendant or defendants."
Except as provided hereinafter, prosecutions shall be initiated by the filing
of a written complaint, subscribed, and verified by the person making
complaint, and setting forth concisely the offense charged.
(Code 1976, 9-1-18)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O.S. 27-115.
Sec. 14-18. Arrests; release by signing citation; bail; amount and conditions;
temporary cash bond.
   (a)   If a resident of the city is arrested for the violation of any
ordinance, traffic or non-traffic, by a law enforcement officer, the officer
shall immediately release the person if the person acknowledges receipt of a
citation by signing it unless it reasonably appears to the officer that the
person may cause injury to himself or others or damage to property if released,
that the person will not appear in response to the citation, or the person is
arrested for an offense against a person or property. If the person fails to
appear in response to the citation, a warrant shall be issued for his arrest
and his appearance shall be compelled.
   (b)   If a resident of the city is arrested by a law enforcement officer for
the violation of any ordinance and is not released by being permitted to sign a
citation as provided for in subsection (a) of this section, he shall be
admitted to bail either before or after arraignment or shall be released on his
own recognizance.
   (c)   If a nonresident of the city is arrested for a violation of any
ordinance other than a traffic violation by a law enforcement officer, the
defendant shall be eligible to be admitted to bail either before or after
arraignment.
   (d)   A person who is arrested for a municipal traffic violation by a law
enforcement officer to comply with the procedures provided by law in Section
1114.1 of Title 22 of the Oklahoma Statutes for state traffic violations with
respect to release of the arrested person. The following methods of posting
bail shall apply:
   (1)   Posting cash bail; or
   (2)   Depositing with the arresting officer a "guaranteed arrest bond
certificate;" or
   (e)   The amount and conditions of bail granted pursuant to the provisions
of subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall be determined by the judge who
shall prescribe rules for the receipt of bail and for the release of one's own
recognizance. In the event of arrests at night, emergencies, or when the judge
is not available, the chief of police or his designated representative may be
authorized by the judge subject to such conditions as shall be prescribed by
the judge to accept a temporary cash bond in a sufficient amount to secure the
appearance of the accused. The cash bond shall not be more than the maximum
fine provided for by ordinance for each offense charged. The chief of police or
his designated representative is authorized, subject to such conditions as
shall be prescribed by the judge, to release a resident of the city on his own
recognizance.
Cross reference--Motor vehicles and traffic,
Ch. 13.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O.S. 27-117.
Sec. 14-19. Summons.
(a)   Upon the filing of a complaint charging violation of an ordinance, the
judge, unless he determines to issue a warrant of arrest, or unless the
defendant previously has been issued a citation or has been arrested and has
given bond for appearance, shall issue a summons, naming the person charged,
specifying the person's address or place of residence, if known, stating the
offense with which the person is charged and giving the person notice to answer
the charge in the court on a day certain, containing a provision for the
official return of the summons, and including such other pertinent information
as may be necessary.
(b)   The summons shall be served by delivering a copy to the defendant
personally. If the defendant fails to appear and to answer the summons within
the prescribed period, a warrant shall be issued for the defendant's arrest.
(Code 1976, 9-1-21)
Cross reference--Failure to appear,
12-16.
State law reference--Forfeiture of bond for failure to appear, 11 O.S. 27-118.
Sec. 14-20. Arrest warrants.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, upon the filing of a
complaint approved by endorsement by the judge, and there shall be issued a
warrant of arrest. In substantially the following form:
The City of The Village, Oklahoma, to the Chief of Police of The Village,
Oklahoma. Complaint upon oath having this day been made by (naming complainant)
that the offense of (naming the offense in particular but general terms) has
been committed and accusing (name of defendant) thereof, you are commanded
therefore forthwith to arrest the above named (name of defendant) and
bring_______________________ (insert him, her, or them as appropriate) before
me, at _____________ (naming the place). Witness by hand this ___________ day
of _______________, 20______.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the chief of police personally, or through a
duly constituted member of the police force, or through any other persons
lawfully authorized so to act, to execute the warrant as promptly as possible.
(Code 1976, 9-1-22)
State law reference--Issuance of arrest warrants, 11 O.S. 27-115.
Sec. 14-21. Arraignment.
   Upon making his appearance before the court, the defendant shall be
arraigned. The judge, or the attorney of the municipality, shall read the
complaint to the defendant, inform the defendant of the defendant's legal
rights, and of the consequences of conviction, and ask the defendant whether he
pleads guilty or not guilty. If the defendant pleads guilty, the court may
proceed to judgment and sentence or may continue the matter for subsequent
disposition. If the plea is not guilty, and the case is not for jury trial, the
court may proceed to try the case, or may set it for hearing at a later date.
(Code 1976, 9-1-24)
State law reference--Arraignment, 11 O.S. 27-116.
Sec. 14-22. Procedures during trials.
   In all trials, as to matters not covered in this chapter, or by state
statutes, or by rules duly promulgated by the Supreme Court, the procedure
applicable in trials of misdemeanors in the district courts shall apply to the
extent that they can be made effective.
(Code 1976, 9-1-27)
Sec. 14-23. Orders of no imprisonment or maximum fine.
   (a)   Prior to the trial of a case, the judge may enter an order with
respect to such case providing for one (1) or both of the following:
   (1)   The defendant will not be imprisoned if he is convicted;
   (2)   A maximum fine that can be assessed if the defendant is convicted.
   (b)   If such an order is entered, sentencing must be in accordance with
such order.
   (c)   This section does not restrict the right of the judge to order
imprisonment of a financially able person for failure to pay a fine.
Cross reference--General penalty for violation of Code, 1-9.
Sec. 14-24. Postponement of trial.
Before trial commences, either party, upon good cause shown, may obtain a
reasonable postponement thereof.
(Code 1976, 9-1-25)
Sec. 14-25. Presence of defendant at trial.
The defendant must be present in person at the trial.
(Code 1976, 9-1-26)
Sec. 14-26. Judgment and sentence.
   (a)   If the defendant pleads guilty or is convicted after trial, the court
must render judgment thereon, fixing the penalty within the limits prescribed
by the applicable ordinance and imposing sentence accordingly. At the close of
trial, judgment must be rendered immediately by the judge who shall cause it to
be entered in the judge's docket. After conviction and sentence, the judge may
suspend the sentence, in accordance with the provisions of, and subject to the
conditions and procedures imposed by law.
State law reference--Suspension of sentence, 11 O.S. 27-123, 27-124.
   (b)   A judgment that the defendant pay a fine may direct also that he be
imprisoned until the fine is satisfied at the rate of one (1) day of
imprisonment for each twenty-five dollars ($25.00) of fine.
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O.S. 27-122.
   (c)   If judgment is of acquittal, and the defendant is not to be detained
for any other legal cause, he must be discharged at once.
(Code 1976, 9-1-28--9-1-32)
Sec. 14-27. Execution of sentences of municipal court; Assessment of Costs,
Penalty Assessments and Administrative Fees.
A)   All sentences of imprisonment shall be executed by the chief of police of
the city, and any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of the
municipality and sentenced to imprisonment shall be confined in the jail, or
workhouse of the city, in the discretion of the court, for the time specified
in the sentence; provided, however, the court may, in lieu of imprisonment,
order the defendant to engage in a term of community service without
compensation. If the defendant fails to perform the required community service
or if the conditions of community service are violated, the judge may impose a
sentence of imprisonment, not to exceed the maximum sentence allowable for the
violation for which the defendant was convicted. (Title 11, 27-122.1 A)
B)   The judge of the municipal court imposing a judgment and sentence, at the
judge's discretion, is empowered to modify, reduce, suspend, or defer the
imposition of a sentence or any part thereof and to authorize probation for a
period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of sentence under terms or
conditions as the judge may specify. Procedures relating to suspension of the
judgment or costs, or both shall be as provided in Section 27-123 of Title 11
of the Oklahoma Statutes. Upon completion of the terms of probation, the
defendant shall be discharged without a court judgment of guilt, and the
verdict, judgment of guilty, or plea of guilty shall be expunged from the
record and the charge dismissed with prejudice to any further action. Upon a
finding of the court that the conditions of probation have been violated, the
municipal judge may enter a judgment of guilty. (Title 11, 27-122.1 B)
C)   The judge of the municipal court may continue or delay imposing a judgment
and sentence for a period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of
sentence. At the expiration of this period of time the judge may allow the
municipal attorney to amend the charge to a lesser offense. (Title 11, 27-122.1
C)
D)   Administrative Fee. If a deferred sentence is imposed, an administrative
fee not to exceed five hundred ($500.00) dollars may be imposed as costs in the
case, in addition to any deferral fee otherwise authorized by law. (Title 11,
27-122.1 D)
E)   Deferral Fee. The maximum fine or deferral fee in lieu of a fine for
traffic-related offenses relating to speeding or parking shall not exceed Five
Hundred ($500.00) dollars. For all other offenses, the maximum fine or deferral
fee in lieu of a fine shall not exceed Seven Hundred and Fifty ($750.00)
dollars. (Title 11 O.S. Section 14-111 C.) (Ord. No. 599, 2-15-2005)
F)   Court Costs. If the judgment of conviction is entered, or the city agrees
to a dismissal of charges with costs, the clerk of the municipal court shall be
authorized to tax the costs to the defendant in an amount up to thirty ($30.00)
dollars, all of which the defendant shall pay in addition to any fine. (Ord.
No. 642, §1, 08-18-2009; State law reference - Title 11 O.S. Art. XXVII, § 27-
126)
G)   Community Service. If the judge orders any person fined for violation of a
municipal ordinance who is financially able but refuses or neglects to pay the
fine or costs may be compelled to satisfy the amount owed by working on the
streets, alleys, avenues, areas, and public grounds of the city, subject to the
direction of the public works director or other proper offices, at a rate per
day of Twenty Five ($25.00) Dollars for useful labor until the fine or costs
are satisfied. (Title 11 O.S. Section 14-111 A.)
H)   Penalty Assessment. The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect Penalty
Assessment Fees on a finding of guilt for any offense for which the fine is
greater than $10 as follows:
   1)   CLEET Assessment: $10.00
   2)   AFIS Assessment: $10.00
   3)   Forensic Assessment: $10.00
(Ord. No. 758, §1, 05-17-2021
The fees listed herein shall not be assessed for parking violations or for the
violation of seatbelt laws pursuant to 47, O.S. §12-417.
(Code 1976, § 9-1-33; Ord. No. 316, § (9-1-34), 1-18-83; Ord. No. 402, §1, 2-2-
88; Ord, No. 394, §1, 07-06-2004; 2004 City Code; Ord. No. 758, §1, 05-17-2021)
State law reference--Assessment of costs, 11 O.S. 27-126; 20 O.S. §1319.2; 11
O.S. § 14-111; 19 O.S. §220. State law reference Title 11, 27-122.1 A, et seq
Sec. 14-28. Minor Traffic and Parking Fine Schedule
The Judge is authorized to create a minor violations schedule setting forth
designated minor violations pertaining to minor traffic and parking violations
on request of accused persons who desire to plead guilty and pay fines and cost
without having to be arraigned and tried on the matter.
(Ord. No. 692 §1, 04-15-2014) (Charter reference, Article V, Section 34)
Sec. 14-29. Technology fee assessed.
(a)    There is hereby established a technology fee for the express and sole
purpose of funding technological maintenance and improvements for the city.
There shall be a ten-dollar ($10.00) fee assessed in addition to any other
costs or fees assessed on every citation disposed of in the municipal court
except those that are voided, declined for prosecution or on which the
defendant is acquitted and provided further that the total fine combined with
costs and fees do not exceed the maximum fine allowed by state law. The
revenues generated by this fee shall be deposited in the General Fund and
accounted for separately from other revenues received by the city. Expenditures
of these funds may be made from this account only for technological maintenance
and improvements for the city as approved and appropriated by the City Council.
This fee shall become effective July 1, 2017.
(Ord. No. 728, §1, 06-19-2017)
CHAPTER 15
NUISANCES
Art. I.   In General, 15-1--15-3
Art. II.   Public Nuisances, 15-25--15-29
Art. III.   Weeds and Trash, 15-50--15-51
Art. IV.   Abandoned, Junked, Etc., Vehicles, 15-60--15-66
Art. V.   Unsafe Structures, Boarding & Securing, 15-75--15-85
Art. VI.   Dilapidated Buildings, 15-100
Cross-references--Air pollution,
Chapter 3 oil and gas wells,
Chapter 16 structures, or growth overhanging right-of-way,
21-10.
State law reference--Municipal authority to define and abate nuisances, 50 O.S.
16.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 15-1. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Abandoned Vehicle means a vehicle that a person in charge or control of any
property within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, or lessee,
requests it removed from said property and where said vehicle is owned by
another.
   Blight means any deteriorated, decayed, corroded, oxidized, decomposed,
impaired, unhealthy, or unsafe condition that depreciates the value of the
property of others.
   Boarding and securing or boarded and secured means closing, boarding, or
locking of any or all exterior openings so as to prevent entry into the
structure.
   Code official means any employee of the city designated by the city manager
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   Condemn or condemnation means to adjudge and order any structure or
equipment unfit and unlawful for its intended use.
   Cleaning means the removal of trash from property.
   Dilapidated building means:
   a)   A structure which through neglect or injury lacks necessary repairs or
otherwise is in a state of decay or partial ruin to such an extent that the
structure is a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public;
   b)   A structure which is unfit for human occupancy due to the lack of
necessary repairs and is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public;
   c)   A structure which is determined by the municipal governing body or
administrative officer of the municipal governing body to be an unsecured
building, as defined by Title 11, O.S. Section 22-112.1, more than three times
within any twelve-month period;
   d)   A structure which has been boarded and secured, as defined by Title 11,
O.S. Section 22-112.1, for more than eighteen (18) thirty-six (36) consecutive
months, or
   e)   A structure declared by the municipal governing body to constitute a
public nuisance.
(Ord. No. 659, §108-16-2011)
   Derelict Vehicle means any vehicle which is in poor condition due to lack of
exterior maintenance including excessive peeling of paint, excessive rusting,
and other similar conditions, which render the vehicle unsightly.
   Dismantled Vehicle means any vehicle capable of being driven upon the
streets and highways of the city and which is temporarily disassembled to
include, but not limited to, an absence of windows, windshield, fenders, doors,
hoods, or bumpers.
   Excessive peeling of paint means five (5%) percent or more of the paint,
stain, or bonded material of any exterior side of a wall, gable, soffit,
fascia, gable, gutter, window, or door of any structure which is no longer
adhering to the exterior surface due to deterioration, chipping, or peeling.
   Fence in disrepair means any fence which fence boards are rotten, missing,
loose, and/or partially missing due to the partial breakage of any individual
boards; provided however, when a dog is harbored, maintained, or otherwise kept
on the premises, fence in disrepair means a fence which, is not maintained in a
strong and sturdy condition and/or contains holes or gaps large enough for a
human limb or dog to go through.
(Ord. No. 609, §1, 09-06-2005;
Code Reference, Chapter 5, Section
5-24 (a).
   Loud noise means not less than ninety (90) decibels as measured on a
commercial sound level meter, using the A-weighted network scale, measured at
any point away from the property or vehicle from which said noise emanates.
   Missing roof shingles means five (5%) percent or more of the area of any
shingle roof, which is no longer adhering to the exterior roof surface due to
deterioration. Damage to shingle roofs caused by windstorm, hail, or other
similar acts of nature shall be exempt from the provisions of this section for
a period of six (6) months after damage occurs.
   Non-Operable Vehicle means any vehicle, which upon visual inspection appears
incapable of being operated legally upon the streets and highways of the city
due to an absence of any essential parts or due to any temporary condition,
which in itself limits or prevents its intended use to include, but not limited
to, wheels, tires, suspension, and dismantled engines. Non-Operable Vehicle
shall also include any vehicle that bears no license plate, bears a license
plate that has been altered or tampered with or otherwise does not conform with
the Oklahoma Vehicle License Act (47 O.S. § 1101, et seq.), displays a
temporary paper tag which has been expired for thirty (30) days or more, or for
which vehicle registration which has been expired for ninety (90) days or more.
(Ord. No. 714, §1, 10-17-2016)
   Owner means the owner of record as shown by the most current tax rolls of
the county treasurer.
   Paved surface means a solid, sealed surface constructed of asphalt,
concrete, stone, brick, or other similar material, which is designed for use by
vehicles and/or pedestrians including driveways, sidewalks, and other similar
surfaces.
   Paved surface area means any area of paved surface consisting of one hundred
(100) square feet or less.
   Person means any person, which is the owner of, or person in control or
custody of, any property where a public nuisance exists. The word "person"
shall extend and be applied to associations, corporations, firms, partnerships
as well as to occupants, tenants, business managers, and other individuals.
   Pothole means a depression in any paved surface, which is at least one-half
inch (1/2") deep and has a diameter of twelve inches (12") or more resulting
from the deterioration of the paved material.
   Public nuisance means unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or any thing or condition which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood or any considerable number of persons although the
extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be
unequal, and where such unlawful act, omission, thing, or condition either:
   (1)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety
of others;
   (2)   Offends decency;
   (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for
passage any lake, stream, canal or basin, ditch or drainage, or any public
park, square, street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, or other public property;
   (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use of
property;
   (5)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, creates an unhealthy condition, or depreciates the value of the
property of others.
   Publish or publication means printing in a newspaper which:
   a.   Any newspaper which is of general circulation in the city, and
   b.   Meets the requirements of a legal newspaper as provided in 106 of Title
25 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
   If there is no newspaper meeting the requirements as provided for in this
paragraph, the term publish, or publication shall mean posting a copy of the
item to be published in ten or more public places in the city. When a notice is
required to be published for prescribed period of time, publishing the notice
one (1) day each week during the prescribed period of publication is sufficient
in accordance with 103 of Title 25 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
   Spalling means pitting in any paved driveway or paved surface covering
twenty-five (25%) percent of its paved surface area resulting from the
deterioration of the paved material.
   Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attached to something having a location on the ground
including, buildings, signs, antennae, poles, satellite receivers and other
similar structures.
   Trash means any refuse, litter, ashes, leaves, debris, paper, combustible
materials, rubbish, offal, or waste, or matter of any kind or form, which is
uncared for, discarded, or abandoned.
   Unfit for human occupancy means a structure that due to lack of necessary
repairs is considered uninhabitable or is a hazard to the health, safety, and
welfare of the general public.
   Unsecured building shall mean any structure which is not occupied by a legal
or equitable owner thereof, or by a lessee of a legal or equitable owner, and
into which there are one (1) or more unsecured openings such as broken windows,
unlocked windows, broken doors, unlocked doors, holes in exterior walls, holes
in the roof, broken basement or cellar hatchways, unlocked basement or cellar
hatchways or other similar unsecured openings which would facilitate an
unauthorized entry into the structure.
   Vegetation means any plant life, including, but not limited to, weeds,
trees, shrubs, grass, and crops.
   Weed includes but is not limited to poison ivy, poison oak, or poison sumac
and all vegetation at any state of maturity which:
   (1)   Exceeds twelve (12) inches in height, except healthy trees, shrubs, or
produce for human consumption grown in a tended and cultivated garden unless
such trees and shrubbery by their density or location constitute a detriment to
the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and community or hazard to
traffic or create a fire hazard to the property or otherwise interfere with the
mowing of said weeds;
   (2)   Regardless of height, harbors, conceals, or invites deposits or
accumulation of refuse or trash;
   (3)   Harbors rodents or vermin;
   (4)   Gives off unpleasant or noxious odors;
   (5)   Constitutes a fire or traffic hazard; or
   (6)   Is dead or diseased.
   Weed does not include tended crops on land zoned for residential use.
   Wrecked Vehicle means any vehicle, which is incapable of being driven upon
the streets and highways of the city, which has been damaged by striking
another object or by being overturned. Wrecked Vehicle shall also mean any
vehicle with severe indentation on any quarter panel, front end, rear end, side
or top of the vehicle, whether the vehicle is capable of being driven upon the
streets and highways of the city or not.
(Code 1976, 10-12-1 Ord. No. 320, 1(10-11-4(a)), 6-21-83 Ord. No. 373, 2, 9-16-
86 Ord. No. 430, 1, 10-3-89 Ord. No. 470, 1, 6-16-92 Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94
Ord. No. 538, 1, 1-6-98; 2004 City Code)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 50 O.S. 1, 2.
Sec. 15-2. Duties and powers of code official.
   (a)   General: The code official shall enforce all of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (b)   Notices and orders: The code official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (c)   Right of entry: The code official is authorized to request entry into
a structure for the purpose of inspection and investigation for compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. Said entry shall not be earlier than 8:00 a.m.
or later than 6:00 p.m. No code official shall so enter the structure without
approval by the person responsible for the structure. Prior to entering the
structure, the code official shall present an official badge, if so, requested
by the person responsible. If requested entry is refused, the code official
shall not enter the structure, absent an emergency condition where life or
property is in immediate threat or danger.
   (d)   Access by owner: Every occupant of a structure, premises or property
shall give the owner or operator thereof, or agent or employee, access to any
part of such structure, property, or premises at reasonable times for the
purpose of making such inspection, maintenance, repairs, or alterations as are
necessary to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (e)   Identification: The code official shall present an official badge or
other proper identification when inspecting structures, property, or premises
in the performance of duties under this chapter.
   (f)   Removal of nuisances: The code official may order the person
responsible for any structure, property, or premises to abate any nuisance as
defined by this chapter, which has been determined to exist in said structure
or on said property or premises by the code official. Any person responsible
for any such structure, property or premises who fails to comply with the
notice set out in this section within ten (10) days from the receipt of such
notice, or such other period of time as deemed reasonable and set out in the
notice shall be guilty of an offense.
Sec. 15-3. Penalty.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
two hundred ($200.00) dollars. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been given shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Code 1976, 10-12-6, Ord. No. 454, 1, 4-16-91 Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94; 2004
Code)
Secs. 15-4--15-24. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. PUBLIC NUISANCES
Sec. 15-25. Public nuisances enumerated.
The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
   (1)   Any equipment, or structure, or part thereof, which is so constructed,
or which has become so dilapidated, or kept in such an unsanitary condition or
disrepair that it endangers the health or life of the occupants thereof or of
the general public or the property of others.
   (2)   Any structure or other place or location where any activity which is
in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted, performed, or
maintained.
   (3)   Any structure or paved surface, the exterior of which has not been
maintained in good repair. The same shall be maintained free of missing roof
shingles, excessive peeling of paint, potholes, spalling, or other conditions
reflective of deterioration or inadequate maintenance to the end that the
property itself may be preserved, safety and fire hazards eliminated, and
adjoining properties protected from blighting influences which would impair the
maintenance of property values.
   (4)   Any advertising sign, signboard, billboard, or other object so located
that it prevents pedestrians or persons riding in or driving automobiles, or
other vehicles, or persons in the rightful use of any street, avenue, alley, or
other public way, from having a clear and unobstructed view of approaching
vehicles or persons coming in a diagonal or cross direction along another
highway.
   (5)   Graffiti and other inscriptions and writing not part of a legal sign
or billboard.
   (6)   Fallen fences or sections thereof, fences in disrepair, including
fences that contain holes, gaps or other openings which permit a dog to escape
the confines of the yard. (Chapter 5, Section
5-24 (a))
   (7)   Any dog that barks at passersby and acts as if it intended to attack
them.
   (8)   Any dog or other animal which repeatedly, frequently or continuously
annoys persons in its vicinity by barking or making other noises.
   (9)   Continuous or intermittent loud noises, which may annoy or prevent
others' enjoyment of the use of their property. It shall be the responsibility
of the owner, occupant, or person in control, of any property or vehicle from
which noises emanate to maintain noise levels within limits prescribed by this
chapter. The following sources of potentially excessive sound shall be exempt
from the requirements of this subsection:
   (a)   Safety signals and alarm devices, storm warning sirens or horns and
the authorized testing of such equipment, emergency vehicle sirens or horns
when responding to an emergency.
   (b)   Church bells or chimes.
   (c)   Construction, demolition, and/or repair work on any public project or
public utility project.
   (d)   Construction, repair, or remodeling that is performed between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (e)   Lawn mowing and the use of yard and garden maintenance equipment
between the hours of 7:00 a.m and 9:00 p.m.
   (10)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within forty-eight
(48) hours after death;
   (11)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches, including smoke and fires;
   (12)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any
property;
   (13)   Any method of human excreta disposal which does not conform to the
provisions of this Code, city ordinance or state law;
   (14)   Any vehicle part or parts, household furniture or appliances, cans,
or any kind of container or cart used for refuse collection or recycling for
which the lids are (1) incapable of closure due to trash, refuse or recyclable
materials overflowing from the top of such container and (2) in plain view of
the public.
   (15)   Any motor vehicle, trailer, or similar vehicle containing trash, or
junk which is parked, placed, stored, or kept in such a manner that said trash
or junk is in view of the public for a period of three (3) or more days.
   (16)   Any building materials located on residential property, unless such
building materials are being utilized in the course of normal construction,
repair, or remodeling on said property, and provided further that said
construction, repair or remodeling is performed with due diligence.
   (17)   Any tree log that is modified or used for the purpose of decoration,
art, advertising, lawn furniture, patio furniture or similar purpose and which
is placed or is located in the front yard or side yard of any residential
property, unless said log is concealed from public view by a six-foot high
sight-proof fence. This subsection shall not apply to landscape timbers that
are properly maintained and in use in flower beds. For the purposes of this
Subsection, a tree log shall mean any part of a tree that has a diameter of
four (4) inches or more and a length of three (3) feet or longer. (Ord. No. 702
§1, 02-17-2015).
   (18)   Any abandoned, derelict, dismantled, non-operable or wrecked vehicle
as defined herein.
   (19)   Any occupied building in which water, sewer, sanitation, natural gas,
or electric service has been terminated for more than two weeks for any reason
other than a storm-related and/or a maintenance or construction related service
interruption.
   (20)   Any tree log cut in lengths for use as firewood or for storage and
which is stacked or placed beyond the front building line of any residential
property. For the purpose of this subsection, front building line means a line
extending from side property line to side property line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the front property line and the front of the main
building or any projections thereof. (Ord. No. 702 §2, 02-17-2015)
   (21)   Donation boxes placed on commercial property unless such boxes do not
block any designated parking space or internal vehicle circulation routes
within or between such commercial properties, are constructed with cedar wood
stained and sealed to have a natural wood finish, have dimensions not exceeding
four (4) feet in length and six (6) feet in height, and whose signage meets the
area and height requirements for Yard Signs and Rigid Yard Signs in Sec.
20-21 of The Village City Code.
   (22)   Any of the following as defined herein.
   (a)   Blight;
   (b)   Dilapidated Building or structure;
   (c)   Structure Unfit for human occupancy;
   (d)   Unsecured building;
   (e)   Weed.
(Code 1976, 10-12-2 Ord. No. 299, 2, 8-3-82 Ord. No. 430, 1, 10-3-89 Ord. No.
435, 1, 12-19-89 Ord. No. 439, 1, 4-3-90 Ord. No. 443, 1, 5-1-90 Ord. No. 495,
2, 2-1-94; Ord. No. 575. §1, 7-16-02; Ord. No. 691 §1, 03-25-2014; Ord. No. 695
§1, 04-15-2014; Ord. No. 702, §2, 02-17-2015; Ord. No. 739 §1, 08-20-2018; 2018
City Code; 2022 City Code)
Cross reference--Zoning prohibition against such activities,
24-217.
Sec. 15-26. Remedies for public nuisances.
   The remedies of nuisances and remedies against any person responsible for a
public nuisance are:
   (1)   Prosecution on complaint before the municipal court;
   (2)   Prosecution on information or indictment before another appropriate
court;
   (3)   Suit in the district court for the abatement of the nuisance brought
pursuant to a resolution of the city council in accordance with the laws of the
state;
   (4)   Abatement pursuant to the procedures set forth in
15-29 of this chapter;
   (5)   Summary abatements:
   (a)   Summary abatement of nuisances that pose an immediate danger to the
public health, safety, or welfare;
   (b)   Summary abatement of nuisances pursuant to the provisions of
15-29, Subsection (b) of this chapter.
(Code 1976, 10-12-3 Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 50 O.S. § 8.
Sec. 15-27. Persons liable for nuisances.
   Every successive owner or person responsible for any property or premises
who neglects to abate a continuing nuisance upon or in the use of such property
or premises, created by a former owner or person formerly responsible for said
property is liable therefore in the same manner as the person who first created
it.
(Code 1976, 10-12-4 Ord. No. 495, 2 2-1-94)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 50 O.S. § 5.
Sec. 15-28. Lapse of time not to legalize public nuisance.
   No lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance amounting to an actual
obstruction of public right.
(Code 1976, 10-12-5)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 50 O.S. § 7.
Sec. 15-29. Abatement of public nuisances.
   (a)   The city council may cause the removal of nuisances on property within
the municipal limits in accordance with the following procedure:
   1.   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
county treasurer's office or to any mortgage holder as shown by the records in
the office of the county clerk to the last-known address of the mortgagee
before the governing body holds a hearing or takes action. The notice shall
order the property owner to remove the nuisance on the property, as
appropriate, and the notice shall, further state that unless such work is
performed within ten (10) days of the date of the notice the work shall be done
by the municipality and a notice of lien shall be filed with the county clerk
against the property for the costs due and owing the municipality. At the time
of mailing of notice to the property owner, the municipality shall obtain a
receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the
date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if the
property owner cannot be located within ten (IO) days from the date of mailing
by the municipal governing body, notice may be given by posting a copy of the
notice on the property or by publication, as defined in Section 1-102 of this
title, one time not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by
the municipality. If a municipal governing body anticipates summary abatement
of a nuisance in accordance with the provisions of subsection B of this
section, the notice, whether by mail, posting or publication, shall state: that
any reoccurrence of the nuisance on the owner's property occurring within six
(6) months from and after the date of this notice may be summarily abated by
the municipal governing body; that the costs of such abatement shall be
assessed against the owner; and that a lien may be imposed on the property to
secure such payment, all without further prior notice to the property owner;
(Ord. No. 671, §1, 07-03-2012)
   2.   The owner of the property may give written consent to the municipality
authorizing the removal of the public nuisance. By giving written consent, the
owner waives the owner's right to a hearing by the municipality;
   3.   A hearing may be held by the municipal governing body to determine
whether the alleged nuisance is in fact a nuisance and has caused the property
to become detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the public and the
community or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire hazard to the danger of
property;
   4.   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property would be benefited by the removal of
such conditions, the agents of the municipality are granted the right of entry
on the property for the removal of the nuisance, and performance of the
necessary duties as a governmental function of the municipality. Immediately
following the removal of the nuisance on the property, the municipal clerk
shall file a notice of lien with the county clerk describing the property and
the work performed by the municipality, and stating that the municipality
claims a lien on the property for the costs of the nuisance abatement;
   5.   The governing body shall determine the actual cost of such nuisance
abatement and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The municipal clerk shall forward by
mail to the property owner specified in paragraph 1 of this subsection a
statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If the removal of the
nuisance is done by the municipality, the cost to the property Owner for the
removal of the nuisance shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor,
maintenance, and equipment required. If the cleaning and mowing are done on a
private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best
bidder.
In addition to the cost of abatement as heretofore provided for there shall be
an administrative fee assessed to the property owner of two hundred dollars
($200.00) which shall be included as part of the total costs;
   6.   If payment is not made within thirty {'{'}30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, then within the next sixty (60) days, the municipal
clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the
county treasurer of the county in which the property is located and the same
shall be levied on the property and collected by the county treasurer as other
taxes authorized by law. Once certified by the county treasurer, payment may
only be made to the county treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this
section. Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the
persona obligation of the property owner from and after the date the cost is
certified to the county treasurer. In addition, the cost and the interest
thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the cost is
certified to the county treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes
and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and superior to all other
titles and liens against the property, and the lien shall continue until the
cost shall be fully paid. At the time of collection, the county treasurer shall
collect a fee of Five Dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee
shall be deposited to the credit of the general fund of the county. If the
county treasurer and the municipality agree that the county treasurer is unable
to collect the assessment, the municipality may pursue a civil remedy for
collection of the amount owing and interest thereon by an action in person
against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against
the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, if any, the municipal
clerk shall forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and
directing discharge of the lien; and
   7.   The municipality may designate by ordinance an administrative officer
or administrative body to carry out the duties of the governing body in
subsection A of this section. The property owner shall have a right of appeal
to the municipal governing body from any order of the administrative officer or
administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of
appeal with the municipal clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative
order is rendered.
B.   If a notice is given by a municipal governing body to a property owner
ordering the removal of a nuisance from property within the municipal limits in
accordance with the procedures provided for in subsection A of this section,
any subsequent nuisance on the property occurring within a six-month period may
be declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without further prior
notice to the property owner. At the time of each such summary abatement the
municipality shall notify the property owner of the abatement and the costs
thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may request a hearing
within ten (10) days after the date of mailing the notice. The notice and
hearing shall be as provided for in subsection A of this section. Unless
otherwise determined at the hearing the cost of such abatement shall be
determined and collected as provided for in paragraphs 5 and 6 of subsection A
of this section. This subsection shall not apply if the records of the county
clerk show that the property was transferred after notice was given pursuant to
subsection A of this section.
(Ord. No. 454, 2, 4-16-91 2, 2-1-94; Ord. No. 652, §1, 04-20-2010, State Law
Reference Title 11, § 22-111; Ord. No. 371, §1, 07-03-2012)
Sec. 15-30. Owner may regain property.
   Except as otherwise provided in Article IV of this Chapter for abandoned,
junked, etc., vehicles, the owner of any personal property of ascertainable or
apparent value removed by the City pursuant to lawful nuisance abatement
procedures may regain possession thereof by making application to the municipal
clerk within thirty (30) calendar days after its removal and upon payment to
the City of all reasonable costs of removal and storage which shall have
accrued to such property. If the property is not reclaimed within thirty (30)
calendar days, the municipal clerk shall certify the sale value, if any, of
such property, and such property may be sold or otherwise disposed of without
further notice. After payment of removal and storage costs, all funds remaining
from any sale of such personal property shall become the property of the City
to defray the remaining costs of abatement.
(Ord. No. 745, §1, 05-06-2019)
Secs. 15-31--15-49. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. WEEDS AND TRASH
 
Cross references--Garbage and trash,
23-16 et seq. littering Prohibited,
23-21.
State law reference--Weed and trash abatement, 11 O.S. 22-111.
Sec. 15-50. Accumulation of trash, weeds prohibited.
   No person responsible for any property shall allow trash to accumulate or
weeds to grow or stand upon said property.
(Code 1976, 10-11-1, 10-11-2 Ord. No. 373, 3, 9-16-86 Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec. 15-51. Abatement of weeds, trash by city.
   (a)   The city council may cause property within the municipal limits to be
cleaned of trash and weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the
following procedure:
   1.   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
county treasurer's office or to any mortgage holder as shown by the records in
the office of the county clerk to the last-known address of the mortgagee
before the governing body holds a hearing or takes action. The notice shall
order the property owner to clean the property of trash, or to cut or mow the
weeds or grass on the property, as appropriate, and the notice shall, further
state that unless such work is performed within ten (10) days of' the date of
the notice the work shall be done by the municipality and a notice of lien
shall be filed with the county clerk against the property for the costs due and
owing the municipality. At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner,
the municipality shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service,
which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of
the mailee. However, if the property owner cannot be located within ten (10)
days from the date of mailing by the municipal governing body, notice may be
given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by publication, as
defined in Section 1-102 of this title, one time not less than ten (10) days
prior to any hearing or action by the municipality. If a municipal governing
body anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the
provisions of subsection B of this section, the notice, whether by mail,
posting or publication, shall state: that any accumulations of trash or
excessive weed or grass growth on the owner's property occurring within six (6)
months from and after the date of this notice may be summarily abated by the
municipal governing body; that the costs of such abatement shall be assessed
against the owner; and that a lien may be imposed on the property to secure
such payment, all without further prior notice to the property owner;
   2.   The owner of the property may give written consent to the municipality
authorizing the removal of the trash or the mowing of the weeds or grass. By
giving written consent, the owner waives the owner's right to a hearing by the
municipality;
   3.   A hearing may be held by the municipal governing body to determine
whether the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass has caused
the property to become detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the
public and the community or a hazard to traffic, or creates a fire hazard to
the danger of property;
   4.   Upon a finding that the condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property would be benefited by the removal of
such conditions, the agents of the municipality are granted the right of entry
on the property for the removal of trash, mowing of weeds or grass, and
performance of the necessary duties as a governmental function of the
municipality. Immediately following the cleaning or mowing of the property, the
municipal clerk shall file a notice of lien with the county clerk describing
the property and the work performed by the municipality, and stating that the
municipality claims a lien on the property for the cleaning or mowing costs;
   5.   The governing body shall determine the actual cost of such cleaning and
mowing, and any other expenses as may be necessary in connection therewith,
including the cost of notice and mailing. The municipal clerk shall forward by
mail to the property owner specified in paragraph 1 of this subsection a
statement of such actual cost and demanding payment. If the cleaning and mowing
are done by the municipality, the cost to the property Owner for the cleaning
and mowing shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and
equipment required. If the cleaning and mowing are done on a private contract
basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder;
In addition to the cost of abatement as heretofore provided for there shall be
an administrative fee assessed to the property owner of two hundred dollars
($200.00) which shall be included as part of the total costs;
   6.   If payment is not made within thirty {'{'}30) days from the date of the
mailing of the statement, then within the next sixty (60) days, the municipal
clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to the
county treasurer of the county in which the property is located and the same
shall be levied on the property and collected by the county treasurer as other
taxes authorized by law. Once certified by the county treasurer, payment may
only be made to the county treasurer except as otherwise provided for in this
section. Until fully paid, the cost and the interest thereon shall be the
persona obligation of the property owner from and after the date the cost is
certified to the county treasurer. In addition, the cost and the interest
thereon shall be a lien against the property from the date the cost is
certified to the county treasurer, coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes
and all other taxes and special assessments and prior and superior to all other
titles and liens against the property, and the lien shall continue until the
cost shall be fully paid. At the time of collection, the county treasurer shall
collect a fee of Five Dollars ($5.00) for each parcel of property. The fee
shall be deposited to the credit of the general fund of the county. If the
county treasurer and the municipality agree that the county treasurer is unable
to collect the assessment, the municipality may pursue a civil remedy for
collection of the amount owing and interest thereon by an action in person
against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose its lien against
the property. A mineral interest, if severed from the surface interest and not
owned by the surface owner, shall not be subject to any tax or judgment lien
created pursuant to this section. Upon receiving payment, if any, the municipal
clerk shall forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and
directing discharge of the lien; and
   7.   The municipality may designate by ordinance an administrative officer
or administrative body to carry out the duties of the governing body in
subsection A of this section. The property owner shall have a right of appeal
to the municipal governing body from any order of the administrative officer or
administrative body. Such appeal shall be taken by filing written notice of
appeal with the municipal clerk within ten (10) days after the administrative
order is rendered.
C.   If a notice is given by a municipal governing body to a property owner
ordering the property within the municipal limits to be cleaned of trash and
weeds or grass to be cut or mowed in accordance with the procedures provided
for in subsection A of this section, any subsequent accumulations of trash or
excessive weed or grass growth on the property occurring within a six-month
period may be declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated without
further prior notice to the property owner. At the time of each such summary
abatement the municipality shall notify the property owner of the abatement and
the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may request a
hearing within ten (10) days after the date of mailing the notice. The notice
and hearing shall be as provided for in subsection A of this section. Unless
otherwise determined at the hearing the cost of such abatement shall be
determined and collected as provided for in paragraphs 5 and 6 of subsection A
of this section. This subsection shall not apply if the records of the county
clerk show that the property was transferred after notice was given pursuant to
subsection A of this section.
State law reference--11 O.S. 1981, 22-111 et seq.
(Code 1976, 10-11-3--10-11-6 Ord. No. 269, 1, 11-6-79 Ord. No. 272, 1, 11-20-79
Ord. No. 320, 2, 6-21-83 Ord. No. 373, 4, 9-16-86 Ord. No. 454 3, 4-16-91 Ord.
No. 495, 2, 2-1-94; Ord. No. 652, §2, 04-20-2010)
Secs. 15-52--15-59. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. ABANDONED, JUNKED, ETC., VEHICLES
Sec. 15-60. Public property.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle on a highway or other public property
within the city and no person shall leave any wrecked, dismantled, or non-
operating vehicle on any highway or other public property within the city.
(Ord. No. 470, 2, 6-16-92)
Sec. 15-61. Private property.
   (a)   No person responsible for any property within the city, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, manager, or otherwise, shall allow any
dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to be placed
or remain on such property.
   (Ord. No. 470, 2, 6-16-92)
   (b)   This section shall not apply to:
   1)   A vehicle in an enclosed building
   2)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful
place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise
or
   3)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the city.
   4)   Any motor vehicle that for which a monthly vehicle restoration permit
has been obtained, said permit to be obtained from the office of City Clerk at
a cost of fifteen ($15.00) dollars each, provided that there shall be no more
than twelve (12) monthly permits issued for any one vehicle.
(Code 1976, 15-3-8, 15-3-9; Ord. No. 570, §2, 10-16-01)
Sec. 15-62. Removal of vehicles by city.
   (a)   The city may cause any abandoned, disabled, wrecked, dismantled,
junked, discarded or non-operating vehicle ("nuisance vehicle") to be impounded
in accordance with the following procedure:
   (1)   At least ten (10) days' notice shall be given to the owner of the
property by mail at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in the
county treasurer's office before the city council holds a hearing or takes
action. The notice shall order the property owner to remove the nuisance
vehicle and shall further state that unless such removal is performed within
ten (10) days of the date of the notice, the removal shall be done by the city.
The notice shall also include a statement that, in the event of the city's
finding any vehicle obstructing the city's removal of the nuisance vehicle, the
city may move or require the driver or person in charge to move the obstructing
vehicle, if practicable, to a nearby position where it can be readily found by
its driver and where it does not violate any motor vehicle or traffic laws and
does not interfere with the city's removal of the nuisance vehicle. At the time
of mailing of notice to the property owner, the city shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if the property owner
cannot be located within ten (10) days from the date of mailing by the city,
notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on the property or by
publication, as defined by Title 11 O.S. 1981, 1-102, one (1) time not less
than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action by the city council.
   (2)   The owner of the nuisance vehicle may give his written consent to the
city authorizing the removal of the nuisance vehicle. By giving said written
consent, the owner waives his right to a hearing by the city council.
   (3)   A hearing may be held by the city council to determine whether the
nuisance vehicle is detrimental to the health, benefit, and welfare of the
public and the community or a hazard to traffic or creates a fire hazard.
   (4)   Upon a finding that the nuisance vehicle constitutes a detriment or
hazard, and that the city would be benefited by the removal of the nuisance
vehicle, the agents of the city are granted the right of entry on the property
for the removal of the nuisance vehicle.
   (5)   Whenever the city finds any vehicle obstructing the city's access to a
nuisance vehicle for purposes of removing the nuisance vehicle, the city is
authorized to move or require the driver or person in charge to move the
obstructing vehicle or object, if practicable, to a nearby position where it
can be readily found by its driver and where it does not violate any provision
of state or city motor vehicle or traffic laws, and does not interfere with the
city's removal of the nuisance vehicle. Before any such moving by the city, and
no more than eight (8) days after the date of the notice described in paragraph
(1) of this subsection, the removing city officer shall first leave under the
windshield wiper or otherwise attach to the obstructing vehicle a conspicuous
warning that:
   (i)   states the date and time that the notice described in paragraph (1)
was attached to the nuisance vehicle;
   (ii)   orders the moving of the obstructing vehicle from the location
obstructing the city's access to the nuisance vehicle within ten (10) days of
the date of the notice described in paragraph (1);
   (iii)   warns that, if the obstructing vehicle is still obstructing the
city's access to the nuisance vehicle ten (10) days from the date of the notice
described in paragraph (1), the obstructing vehicle or object may be moved by
the city to a nearby position where it can be readily found by its driver and
where it does not violate any motor vehicle or traffic laws, and does not
interfere with the city's removal of the nuisance vehicle; and
   (iv)   advises the person in possession of the obstructing vehicle that such
person has a right to a prompt hearing to determine whether the obstructing
actually interferes with the city's removal of the nuisance vehicle if such
person requests such a hearing within ten (10) days of the date of the notice
described in paragraph (1).
   (6)   The city manager or his designees are authorized to carry out the
duties of the city council in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this subsection.
The nuisance vehicle owner shall have a right to appeal to the city council
from any order of the city manager or his designee. Such appeal shall be taken
by filing written notice of appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days
after the administrative order is rendered.
(Ord. No. 454, 4, 4-16-91 Ord. No. 470, 2, 6-16-92 Ord. No. 495, 2-1-94; Ord.
No. 683, §1, 04-16-2013; Ord. No. 720, §1, 02-06-2017)
Cross-references -- O.S. Title 42 §900 et seq.
Sec. 15-63. Stolen vehicles.
   (a)   Whenever a stolen vehicle is located by police and the registered
owner cannot be found within a reasonable time not exceeding one (1) hour, or
cannot be determined from the registration papers or other identifying media in
the vehicle or from records or information available from reports of stolen
cars, the vehicle may be removed to the nearest authorized place to impoundment
and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be notified of the location of
the place of impoundment as soon as possible by the police department.
   (b)   If the registered owner is identified, located and notified of the
recovery of the stolen vehicle, the owner shall be given the right to make his
own arrangement for the removal of the vehicle within one (1) hour from the
time he is actually notified of its recovery, and if the owner is unable or
unwilling to effect the removal within the time specified the vehicle may be
impounded.
(Ord. No. 273, 15-3(a)-2, 1-15-80)
State law reference--Removal of stolen vehicle, 47 O.S. 955.
Sec. 15-64. Release of impounded vehicles to other than the registered owner.
   (a)   The chief of police or the city manager, or their respective
designees, are hereby authorized to release, to someone other than the
registered owner, vehicles, which have been impounded by the police department,
and accept on behalf of the city agreements and bonds to save the city harmless
by such releases.
   (b)   In addition to the general requirements in Section
15-65, any party other than the registered owner claiming an interest in an
impounded vehicle shall submit to the chief of police or the city manager, or
their respective designee, proof of compliance with the following requirements
by written instruments or other suitable documents:
      (1)   Proof of interest
      (2)   Agreement to save and hold harmless the city and all of its
employees
      (3)   Proof of financial responsibility showing the net worth of the
party seeking the vehicle to be in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
or a surety bond in an amount no less than double the value of the vehicle
sought to be released.
   (c)   The instruments shall be approved as to form and legality by the city
attorney or his designated assistant and filed by the chief of police with the
city clerk prior to or simultaneous with the release of the vehicle claimed
together with a copy of the release order.
(Ord. No. 273, 15-3(a)-6, 1-15-80; Ord. No. 775, § 1, 10-14-24)
Sec. 15-65. Release; impoundment fee and expenses.
   (a)   Any vehicle impounded under the authority granted herein shall be
stored and held safely until a written order for its release, signed by an
authorized officer of the city, has been issued. Such order of release shall be
issued only after payment of an impoundment fee to the city in the amount of
one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) by the person to whom the release
will be issued, and a determination from the authorized officer of the city
signing said release that there the city no longer has need for the vehicle for
purposes of ongoing investigations or evidence. Persons to whom orders of
release are issued shall also be responsible for payment to the towing or
storage company any additional expenses or charges assessed by the towing or
storage company for that vehicle.
   (b)   All impoundment fees and expenses shall be the obligation of the
person to whom an order of release for the vehicle is issued, and any impounded
vehicle will be released only after such charges are paid. All impoundment fees
and charges shall be in addition to any fines or costs in connection with
violations. The City Manager and Chief of Police may waive payment of the
city's impoundment fee if the person securing the order of release is the
registered owner of the impounded vehicle upon determination that the vehicle
was impounded through no fault of the registered owner.
   (c)   All impoundment fees paid to the city under paragraph (a) above shall
be deposited into the Police Department Account within the city's General Fund
and may be used for any and all law enforcement-related expenses.
(Ord. No. 273, 15-3(a)-7, 15-3(a) -8, 1-15-80; Ord. No. 775, § 2, 10-14-24)
Secs. 15-66--15-74. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. UNSAFE EQUIPMENT, STRUCTURES, BOARDING & SECURING
Sec. 15-75. In General.
   When a structure is found by the code official to be unsafe, or when a
structure is found unfit for human occupancy, such structure shall be condemned
pursuant to the provisions of this code.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec. 15-76. Unsafe Structure.
   An unsafe structure is one that is found to be dangerous to the life,
health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of the structure by
not providing minimum safeguards to protect, or warn occupants in the event of
fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of such faulty construction or
unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is likely.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec. 15-77. Unsafe equipment.
   Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating equipment, elevator, moving
stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid containers or other
equipment on the premises or within the structure which is in such disrepair or
condition that such equipment is a hazard to life, health, property, or safety
of the public or occupants of the premises or structure.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec. 15-78. Structure unfit for human occupancy.
   A structure is unfit for human occupancy whenever the code official finds
that such structure is unsafe, unlawful, or because of the degree to which the
structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance or lacks utility service, is
unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks
ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating facilities or other essential
equipment required by applicable city codes or state law, or because the
location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec. 15-79. Unlawful structure.
   An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in part to be occupied by
more persons than permitted under this code, or was erected, altered, or
occupied contrary to law.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec 15-80. Closing of vacant structures.
   If a structure is vacant and unfit for human habitation and occupancy, and
is not in danger of structural collapse, the code official is authorized to
post a placard of condemnation on the premises and order the structure closed
up so as not to be an attractive nuisance in accordance with the procedures set
forth by this Article. Such placard shall be posted in a conspicuous place in
or about the structure affected by such notice. Notice of such condemnation
shall also be mailed to any property owners and mortgage holders in accordance
with the procedures provided in 15-85 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec. 15-81. Placarding.
   Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply with the notice
provisions within the time given, the code official shall post on the premises
or on defective equipment, a placard bearing the word "Condemned" and a
statement of the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the
equipment, or removing the placard.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec. 15-82. Prohibited occupancy.
Any person who shall occupy a placarded premise or shall operate placarded
equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall
let anyone occupy a placarded premise or operate placarded equipment shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec. 15-83. Removal of placard.
   The code official shall remove the condemnation placard whenever the defect
or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have
been eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation placard
without the approval of the code official shall be guilty of an offense.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec. 15-84. Imminent danger.
   When, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent danger of
failure or collapse of a building or structure which endangers life, or when
any structure or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered by the
occupation of the structure, or when there is actual or potential danger to the
building occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of
explosives, explosive fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or
dangerous equipment, the code official is hereby authorized to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The code official shall
cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as
follows: "This Structure is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the
Code Official." It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure
except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition, or of demolishing the same.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
Sec. 15-85. Boarding and securing of vacant buildings.
   The city council may cause an unsecured vacant building within the municipal
limits to be boarded and secured in accordance with the following procedure:
   (1)   Before the city council orders such action, at least ten (10) days'
notice that such unsecured building is to be boarded and secured shall be given
by mail to any property owners and mortgage holders as provided by Title 11,
O.S. 1981, 22-112. At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner or
mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee. A copy of the notice shall also be posted on the
property to be affected. However, if neither the property owner nor mortgage
holder can be located, notice may be given by posting a copy of the notice on
the property or by publication, as defined by Title 11 O.S. 1981, 1-102, at
least one (1) time not less than ten (10) days prior to any hearing or action
by the city council.
If the city anticipates summary abatement of a nuisance in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (9) of this section, the notice shall state that any
subsequent need for boarding and securing the building within six (6) months
after the initial boarding and securing of the building pursuant to such notice
may be summarily boarded and secured by the city that the costs of such
boarding and securing shall be assessed against the owner and that a lien may
be imposed on the property to secure such payment, all without further prior
notice to the property owner or mortgage holder
   (2)   The owner of the property may give his written consent to the city
authorizing the boarding and securing of such unsecured building and to the
payment of any costs incurred thereby. By giving said written consent, the
owner waives his right to a hearing by the city council
   (3)   If the property owner does not give his written consent to such
actions, a hearing may be held by the city council to determine whether the
boarding and securing of such unsecured building would promote and benefit the
public health, safety, or welfare. Such hearing may be held in conjunction with
a hearing on the accumulation of trash or the growth of weeds or grass on the
premises of such unsecured or unsafe building held pursuant to the provisions
of 15-51 of this chapter. In making such determination the city council shall
apply the following standard: The city council may order the boarding and
securing of the unsecured building when the boarding and securing thereof would
make such building less available for transient occupation, decrease a fire
hazard created by such building, or decrease the hazard that such building
would constitute an attractive nuisance to children. Upon making the required
determination, the city council may order the boarding and securing of the
unsecured building.
   (4)   After the city council orders the boarding and securing of such
unsecured building, the city clerk shall immediately file a notice of unsecured
building and lien with the county clerk describing the property, stating the
findings of the city at the hearing at which such building was determined to be
unsecured, and stating that the municipality claims a lien on said property for
the costs of boarding and securing such building and that such costs are the
personal obligation of the property owner from and after the date of filing
said notice
   (5)   Pursuant to the order of the city council, the agents of the city are
granted the right of entry on the property for the performance of the boarding
and securing of such building and for the performance with all necessary duties
as a governmental function of the city
   (6)   After an unsecured building has been boarded and secured, the city
council shall determine the actual cost of such actions and any other expenses
as may be necessary in connection therewith, including the cost of notice and
mailing. The city clerk shall forward a statement of the actual costs by mail
to the property owners and mortgage holders as provided for in paragraph (1) of
this section. At the time of mailing of notice to the property owner or
mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal
service, which receipt shall indicate the date of mailing and the name and
address of the mailee.
If the city boards and secures any unsecured building, the cost to the property
owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment
required for the performance of such actions. If such actions are done on a
private contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best
bidder.
In addition to the cost of boarding and securing as heretofore provided for
there shall be an administrative fee assessed to the property owner of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) which shall be included as part of the total costs.
   (7)   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the city clerk
shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual costs
of the boarding and securing of the unsecured building is not made within
thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing of the statement, the city clerk
shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the costs to the county
treasurer and the same shall be levied on the property and collected by the
county treasurer as other taxes authorized by law. Until fully paid the cost
and the interest thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner
from and after the date the cost is certified to the county treasurer. In
addition, the cost and the interest thereon shall be a lien against the
property from the date the cost is certified to the county treasurer, coequal
with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and special assessments
and prior and superior to all other titles and liens against the property, and
the lien shall continue until the cost shall be fully paid. At any time prior
to the collection as provided in this paragraph, the city may pursue any civil
remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest thereon including an
action in personam against the property owner and an action in rem to foreclose
its lien against the property. Upon receiving payment, if any, the city clerk
shall forward to the county treasurer a notice of such payment and directing
discharge of the lien
   (8)   The city manager or his designees are authorized to carry out the
duties of the city council in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this section. The
property owner shall have a right to appeal to the city council from any order
of the city manager or his designee. Such appeal shall be taken by filing
written notice of appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the
administrative order is rendered.
   (9)   If the city council causes a structure within the city limits to be
boarded and secured, any subsequent need for boarding and securing within a
six-month period constitutes a public nuisance and may be summarily boarded and
secured without further prior notice to the property owner or mortgage holder.
At the time of each such summary boarding and securing, the city shall notify
the property owner and mortgage holder of the boarding and securing and the
costs thereof. The notice shall state that the property owner may request a
hearing within ten (10) days after the date of mailing the notice. The notice
and hearing shall be as provided for in paragraph (1) of this section. Unless
otherwise determined at the hearing, the cost of such abatement shall be
determined and collected as provided for in paragraphs 6 and 7 of this section.
State law reference--11 O.S. 1981, 22-112.1
(Ord. No. 454, 5, 4-16-91)
Secs 15-86--15-99. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
Sec. 15-100. Condemnation and removal of dilapidated buildings.
   The city council may cause the removal of dilapidated buildings on property
within the city limits in accordance with the following procedure:
   (1)   At least ten (10) thirty (30) days' notice that a building is to be
torn down or removed shall be given to the owner of the property before the
city council holds a hearing. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the
property to be affected. In addition, copy of said notice shall be sent by mail
to the property owner at the address shown by the current year's tax rolls in
the office of the county treasurer. Written notice shall also be mailed to any
mortgage holder as shown by the records in the office of the county clerk to
the last known address of the mortgagee. At the time of mailing of notice to
any property owner or mortgage holder, the city shall obtain a receipt of
mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall indicate the date of
mailing and the name and address of the mailee. However, if neither the
property owner nor mortgage holder can be located, notice may be given by
posting copy of the notice on the property, or by publication, as defined by
Title 11, O.S. 1981, 1-102. Such notice may be published once not less than ten
(10) days prior to any hearing or action by the city pursuant to the provision
of this section.
   (2)   A hearing may be held by the city council to determine whether the
property is dilapidated and has become detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the general public and the community, or if said property creates a
fire hazard which is dangerous to other property. Any action to challenge the
order of the city council to tear down a dilapidated building shall be filed
within thirty (30) business days from the date of the order of the city council
to tear the structure down.
   (3)   Pursuant to a finding that a condition of the property constitutes a
detriment or hazard, and that the property would be benefited by the removal of
such conditions, the city council may cause the dilapidated building to be torn
down and removed. The city council shall fix reasonable dates for the
commencement and completion of the work. The city clerk shall immediately file
a notice of dilapidation and lien with the county clerk describing the
property, the findings of the city at the hearing, and stating that the city
claims a lien on said property for the destruction and removal costs and that
such costs are the personal obligation of the property owner from and after the
date of filing of said notice. The agents of the city are granted the right of
entry on the property for the performance of the necessary duties as a
governmental function of the city if the work is not performed by the property
owner within dates fixed by the city council.
   (4)   The city council shall determine the actual costs of the dismantling
and removal of dilapidated buildings and any other expenses as may be necessary
in conjunction with the dismantling and removal of the buildings, including the
cost of notice and mailing. The city clerk shall forward a statement of the
actual cost attributable to the dismantling and removal of the buildings and a
demand for payment of such costs, by mail to the property owner. In addition, a
copy of said statement shall be mailed to any mortgage holder at the address
provided for in paragraph (1) of this section. At the time of mailing of the
statement of costs to any property owner or mortgage holder, the city shall
obtain a receipt of mailing from the postal service, which receipt shall
indicate the date of mailing and the name and address of the mailee. If the
city dismantles or removes any dilapidated building the cost to the property
owner shall not exceed the actual cost of the labor, maintenance, and equipment
required for the dismantling and removal of the dilapidated building. If
dismantling and removal of the dilapidated building is done on a private
contract basis, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
In addition to the cost of dismantling and removal as heretofore provided,
there shall be an administrative fee assessed to the property owner of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) which shall be included as part of the total costs
   (5)   When payment is made to the city for costs incurred, the city clerk
shall file a release of lien, but if payment attributable to the actual cost of
the dismantling and removal of the buildings is not made within six (6) months
from the date of the mailing of the statement to the owner of such property,
the city clerk shall forward a certified statement of the amount of the cost to
the county treasurer of the county in which the property is located. Said costs
shall be levied on the property and collected by the county treasurer as are
other taxes authorized by law. Until finally paid, the costs and the interest
thereon shall be the personal obligation of the property owner from and after
the date of the notice of dilapidation and lien is filed with the county clerk.
In addition, the cost and interest thereon shall be a lien against the property
from the date the notice of the lien is filed with the county clerk. Said lien
shall be coequal with the lien of ad valorem taxes and all other taxes and
special assessments and shall be prior and superior to all other titles and
liens against the property. The lien shall continue until the cost is fully
paid. At any time prior to collection as provided for in this paragraph, the
city may pursue any remedy for collection of the amount owing and interest
thereon including an action in personam against the property owner and an
action in rem to foreclose its lien against the property. A mineral interest,
if severed from the surface interest and not owned by the surface owner, shall
not be subject to any tax or judgment lien created pursuant to this section.
Upon receiving payment, the city clerk shall forward to the county treasurer a
notice of such payment and shall direct discharge of the lien.
   (6)   The city manager or his designees are authorized to carry out the
duties of the city council in subsections (1) through (5) of this section. The
property owner shall have a right to appeal to the city council from any order
of the city manager or his designee. Such appeal shall be taken by filing
written notice of appeal with the city clerk within thirty (30) business days
after the administrative order is rendered.
(Ord. No. 495, 2, 2-1-94)
State Law references--Title 11, 22, 112, Title 25, 103, 106.
Section 15-101. Demolition of buildings unfit for human occupancy.
   If a building is vacant and unfit for human occupancy, the city council may
authorize the structure to be demolished in accordance with the procedures
provided in Section
15-100 of this Chapter.
(Ord. No. 538, §2, 1-6-98)
Secs. 15-102--15-199. Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Sec. 15-200. International Property Maintenance Code - Adopted.
That a certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk of the City of The Village, Oklahoma being marked and designated as the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of The Village, in the State of Oklahoma for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the City of The Village are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
ordinance, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in Section
15-201 of this Chapter.
(Ord. No. 665, §1, 09-06-2011)
Sec. 15-201. International Property Maintenance Code, Amendments.
The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2018
Edition are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: [City of The Village, Oklahoma]
Section 103.5. Insert: [Fees for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.]
Section 112.4. Insert: [Any person found guilty of violating any provision of
this Article shall be guilty of a Class B offense punishable by a fine of up to
Two Hundred Dollars $200.00. Each day that a violation exists shall be deemed a
separate offense.]
Section 302.4. Insert: [Twelve (12") inches]
Section 304.14. Insert: [April 1 to October 31]
Section 602.3. Insert: [September 15 to April 15 in two locations]
Section 602.4. Insert: [September 15 to April 15 in two locations]
(Ord. No. 665, §1, 09-06-2011; 2018 City Code)
CHAPTER 16
OIL AND GAS WELLS
*State law reference--regulation and inspection of wells, 52 O.S. 291 et seq.
Sec. 16-1. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning. All technical or oil and gas industry words and
phrases used herein and not specifically defined herein shall have that meaning
customarily attributable thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas
industry.
Abandoned well means:
(1) Each well in which no production casing has been run, and for which
drilling, or testing operations have ceased for thirty (30) consecutive days;
or
(2) Any other well for which there is no current city permit.
Artificial production means the raising to the surface of the earth, by means
other than natural flow, petroleum, or natural gas.
Corporation Commission means the Oklahoma Corporation Commission.
Deleterious substance means any chemical, salt water, oil field brine, waste
oil, waste emulsified oil, basic sediment, mud, or injurious substances
produced or used in the drilling, development, producing, transportation,
refining and processing of oil, gas, or condensate.
Enhanced recovery means an operation by which fluid or energy is introduced
into a source of supply for the purpose of facilitation of recovery there from.
Natural production means the raising to the surface of the earth, by natural
flow, petroleum, or natural gas.
Oil and gas inspector means that person qualified and employed by the city to
enforce the provisions of this article, or his authorized representatives.
Pollution means the contamination or other alteration of the physical,
chemical, or biological properties of any natural waters of the city, or such
discharge of any liquid, gaseous or solid substance into any water of the city
as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful or
detrimental or injurious to public health, safety, or welfare; to domestic,
commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other beneficial uses,
or to livestock, animals or aquatic life.
Pressure maintenance means an operation by which gas, water or other fluids are
injected into a supply of oil to maintain pressure or retard pressure decline
therein for the purpose of facilitating recovery there from, and which has been
approved by the corporation commission after notice and hearing.
Saltwater means any water containing more than five hundred (500) milligrams
per liter of chlorides.
Treatable water means surface and subsurface water in its natural state, which
may or may not require treatment to be useful for human consumption and
contains less than ten thousand (10,000) total dissolved solids and/or five
thousand (5,000) parts per million chlorides.
Water, waters of the city or city water means all streams, lakes, ponds,
marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface and
underground, natural, or artificial, public, or private, which are contained
within, flow through or border upon the city or any portion thereof.
Well means any hole or holes, bore or bores, to any depth for the purpose of
producing and recovering any oil, gas, or liquefied petroleum matter or
deleterious substances, or for the injection or disposal of any of the
foregoing.
(Ord. No. 296, 4, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-2. Scope.
(a) This chapter shall apply to any person drilling an original well, re-
entering an abandoned well, conducting natural or artificial production
projects or operations, or drilling or maintaining a disposal well within the
City of The Village on or after February 2, 1982.
(b) This chapter shall not apply to any such activity, which existed before
February 2, 1982, and was otherwise in compliance with the applicable state
laws, rules, regulations, standards, directives, or ordinances of the city.
However, when the annual permits for pre-existing activities come due for
renewal, then any person reworking an existing well, re-entering an abandoned
well, conducting natural or artificial production projects or operations or
drilling or maintaining a disposal well within the city shall come into
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. No. 296, 44, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-3. Oil and gas inspector.
   (a)   The city manager shall employ a qualified person as an oil and gas
Inspector, whose duty it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to issue such
orders or directives as are required to carry out the intent and purpose of
this chapter and its particular provisions. Failure to abide by any such order
or directive shall be unlawful.
   (c)   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to go upon and
inspect any premises covered by the terms of this chapter to ascertain whether
this chapter and the applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, or
directives of the state are being complied with. Failure to permit access to
the oil and gas inspector shall be unlawful.
   (d)   The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to request and
receive any records, specified in this chapter relating to the status or
condition of any well or project or the appurtenances thereof within the city.
Failure to provide any such requested material shall be unlawful.
(Ord. No. 296, 34, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-4. Violations.
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or neglect to
comply with any provision of this chapter. Any person who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter, or any of the provisions of a drilling
operating permit issued pursuant hereto, or any condition of the bond filed by
the permittee pursuant to this chapter, or who shall neglect to comply with the
terms shall be guilty of a Class A offense. In addition, the city manager at
any regular or special session or meeting of the city council, may, provided
ten (10) days' notice has been given to the permittee, that revocation is to be
considered at such meeting, revoke or suspend any permit issued under this
chapter and under which drilling or producing operations are being conducted in
the event the permittee thereof has violated any provision of permit, said
bond, or of this chapter. In the event the permit is revoked, the permittee may
make application to the oil and gas inspector for re-issuance of such permit,
and the action of the city thereon shall be final. Any continuing offense shall
be considered a public nuisance, the remedies for which under law shall be in
addition to those hereinbefore enumerated.
(Ord. No. 296, 46, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-5. Order to cease operations.
The oil and gas inspector shall apply to the city manager for a hearing upon
such order, which hearing shall be held not longer than twenty-four (24) hours
after the issuance of said order by the oil and gas inspector. The city manager
shall determine if proper cause existed, and, if not, shall permit the
permittee's activity to resume without delay. If the city manager determines
that proper cause did not exist for the order to cease activity to issue, then
he shall make whatever ruling is proper to assure rectification of the cause of
the peril.
(Ord. No. 296, 39, 2-2-82; Ord. No. 494, 1, 10-19-93)
Sec. 16-6. Appeals.
Any permittee aggrieved by any order, directive or ruling issued by the oil and
gas inspector, or by any ruling by the city manager may appeal the same to the
city council which shall hear the matter at its next scheduled meeting. The
lodging of such appeal shall not stay the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 296, 40, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-7. City manager review of permit recommendations.
   Upon the consideration of any application for a permit required by the terms
of this chapter, the oil and gas inspector shall recommend approval or
disapproval thereof to the city manager, who shall review the matter and
thereupon uphold or reverse the recommendation with or without the addition of
any conditions thereto.
(Ord. No. 296, 41, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-8. Informal complaints.
If, upon information or inspection, it is found that a permittee is violating
any portion of this chapter or causing damage or pollution to any surface or
underground treatable water the oil and gas inspector shall file a written
administrative complaint with the city manager, a copy of which shall be
delivered or mailed to the permittee or his agent. If upon subsequent
inspection, it is determined that the permittee has taken the corrective
actions specified, the complaint may be dismissed; otherwise, formal
application will be made to the city council for an order revoking the permit,
and for any other appropriate remedy. Pending the outcome of the final
determination of the city council on the formal application, the oil and gas
inspector shall, after an on-site inspection, have the authority to shut down
those operations where conditions appear obvious that surface or underground
pollution is occurring.
(Ord. No. 296, 45, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-9. Permit.
(1)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person acting for himself or
acting as agent, servant, employee, subcontractor, or independent contractor of
any other person, to drill a well within this city, without a permit having
first been issued by the authority of the oil and gas inspector in accordance
with this chapter.
(2)   Every application for a permit to drill an original well or to re-enter
an abandoned well shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or by some
person duly authorized to sign same on his behalf, and it shall be filed with
the oil and gas inspector and be accompanied by a filing fee in the amount
established by resolution.
(3)   No application shall request a permit to drill more than one well. The
application shall contain full information required by the oil and gas
inspector, including the following:
(a)   Name and address of applicant and date of application;
(b)   Where applying for a proposed original well:
   1.   A block map of the three hundred (300) feet surrounding the drill site,
including thereon the location of the proposed well, and distances therefore to
all existing dwellings, buildings or other structures designed for human
occupancy;
   2.   The names of the mineral, surface, and lease owners;
(c)    A drilling prognosis, to specify in detail the amount weight, and size
of conductor pipe and surface pipe and the procedures to be used in the event
production is not established shall also be specified,
(d)   A statement of the provisions for water for the drilling rig;
(e)   A written plan for disposal of deleterious substances produced during the
drilling operations and any deleterious substances produced as a result of
production from the well. This plan shall include the method of transportation
and name of transporter or transport contractor for the deleterious substances
and the name and location of the permitted disposal site, including a copy of
the permit for the disposal site for the disposal of said deleterious
substances, or in the alternative, provide proof of ownership of the permitted
disposal site. The permittee shall provide monthly reports to the city of the
amount of salt water and other deleterious substances produced, along with
receipts for disposal of same,
(f)   The name and address of the person within the state upon whom service of
process upon applicant may be made within this state, and in the case of any
nonresident person who has no such service agent within this state. There shall
be attached to the application the designation of such a service agent resident
in the county, and a consent that service of summons may be made upon such
person in any action to enforce any of the obligations of the applicant
hereunder;
(g)   A verification of the above information by applicant hereunder.
(4)   A copy of the approved drilling permit from the corporation commission
and a copy of the staking plat shall be filed with the city prior to issuance
of the municipal permit.
(5)   Where the application is one for the re-entry of an abandoned well, to
drill a new well, or to offset a well or a former well, the application shall
contain the information required by Section
16-9 (3) (b) above, with the exception that the oil and gas inspector may
reduce or eliminate any stated requirements thereof, to suit the circumstances.
However, such application for a permit shall provide the following information
in every case:
(a)   A statement of:
   1.   The then condition of the well;
   2.   The depth to which it is proposed such well shall be deepened,
   3.   The proposed casing program to be used in connection with proposed
deepening; and
(b)   Evidence of adequate current tests showing that the casing strings
currently passed the same tests that are required in the case of the drilling
of an original well.
(6)   The oil and gas inspector's office within thirty (30) business days after
the filing of an application for a permit shall determine whether nor not said
application complies in all respects with the provisions of this ordinance and
applicable federal and state law, and, if it does, shall recommend to the city
manager that the permit be issued. Each permit issued shall:
   1.   By reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied verbatim
therein,
   2.   By reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of applicable
state law and the rules, regulations and standards adopted in accordance
therewith relating to the protection of human beings, animals, and natural
resources;
   3.    Specify that the terms of said permit shall be for a period of one (1)
year from the date of issuance thereof, and for like periods thereafter upon
the successful inspection of the permittee's well and operations, as is
provided for elsewhere herein;
   4.   Specify such conditions imposed by the oil and gas inspector as are by
this chapter authorized;
   5.   Specify that no actual operations shall be commenced until the
permittee shall file and have approved the required bonds and certificate of
insurance in the appropriate amounts as provided for elsewhere herein.
(7)   If the permit is issued, it shall, in two (2) originals be signed by the
oil and gas inspector and the permittee, and when so signed shall constitute
the permittee's license to drill and operate in the city and the contractual
obligation of the permittee to comply with the terms of such permit, such bonds
as are required, and applicable state law, rules, regulations, standard and
directives. One (1) executed original copy of said permit shall be retained by
the oil and gas inspector; the other shall be retained by the permittee and
shall be kept available for inspection by any city or state law enforcement
official who shall demand to see same.
(8)   If the permit is refused, or if the applicant notifies the oil and gas
inspector in writing that he does not elect to accept the permit as tendered
and wishes to withdraw his application, or if the bonds of the applicant be not
approved, then upon the happening of any said events the cash fee filed with
the application shall be refunded to the applicant, except that there shall be
retained there from by the city the sum in the amount established by resolution
as a processing fee.
(Ord. No. 296, 5--7, 2-2-82; Ord. No. 494, 2, 10-19-93)
Sec. 16-10. Insurance and bond coverage required.
All applications for a permit under the provisions of this chapter shall be
accompanied by proof of insurance coverage as follows:
   1) The applicant for a permit to drill, operate and/or produce a well
located within corporate limits of the City of The Village shall submit a
pollution insurance policy with the permit application as follows:
   a)    Said insurance policy shall be a standard pollution liability
insurance policy providing for a minimum coverage of $1,000,000.00.
   b)   Said insurance policy must be issued by a reliable insurance broker
licensed to do business in the state, with the applicant/permittee and the City
named as co-insureds.
   c)   Said insurance policy shall be maintained in full force and effect from
commencement of drilling operations until the well is plugged and abandoned in
accordance with this chapter.
   d)   All insurance policy or policies shall provide that they may not be
canceled without written notice to the inspector at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of such cancellation. In the event said policy or policies are
canceled, the permit granted shall immediately terminate without any action on
the part of the inspector, and the applicant/permittee's rights to operate
under said permit shall cease until the applicant permittee files additional
insurance as required herein.
   e)   The deductible for any pollution insurance policy shall not exceed
$25,000.00.
   2) In addition to the pollution insurance required in Paragraph (1) of this
section, the applicant for a permit shall submit with the permit application a
policy or policies of standard comprehensive public liability insurance,
including contractual liability insurance covering bodily injuries and property
damage naming the applicant/permittee and the City as co-insureds, issued by an
insurance company authorized to do business within the state; said policy or
policies in the aggregate shall provide for the following minimum coverage:
   a)   Bodily injuries, $100,000.00 per person; $300,000.00 per accident.
   b)    Property damage, $200,000.00 per accident.
   c)   Said insurance policy or policies shall provide that they may not be
canceled without written notice to the inspector at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of such cancellation. In the event said policy or policies are
canceled, the permit granted shall immediately terminate without any action on
the part of the inspector and the applicant/permittee's right to operate under
said permit shall cease until permittee files additional insurance as required
herein.
   3)   The insurance policies required by this section shall be submitted and
maintained in full force and effect at all times by all persons drilling,
completing, operating, maintaining and/or producing any well-located within the
limits of the City.
   4)   Bond Required.
   a.   Any person who drills or operates any well for the exploration,
development or production of oil or gas, or as an injection or disposal well,
within this City shall furnish on forms approved by the inspector and maintain
at all times a blanket bond or blanket irrevocable letter of credit in the
principal sum of at least $25,000.00. Said bond or letter of credit must be
executed by a reliable insurance company or bank authorized to do business in
the state, as surety or creditor, and with the applicant/permittee as principal
or debtor, running to the City for the benefit of the City and all persons
concerned, conditioned that the applicant/permittee shall comply with the terms
and conditions of this chapter in the drilling and operation of oil wells
drilled or operated within the City.
   b.   Said bond or letter of credit must become effective on or before the
date the same is filed with the City and remain in full force and effect for at
least 12 months subsequent to the expiration of the permit term and, in
addition, the bond or letter of credit must be conditioned that the applicant/
permittee must promptly pay all fines, penalties and other assessments imposed
upon the applicant/permittee by reason of his breach of any of the terms,
provisions or conditions of this chapter, and that the applicant/permittee must
promptly restore the streets, sidewalks and other public property of the City
which may be disturbed or damaged during the applicant/permittee's operations
to their former condition; and that the applicant/permittee must promptly clear
all premises of all litter, trash, waste and other substances and must, after
abandonment, grade, level and restore said property to the same surface
condition, as far as possible, as existed prior to commencing operations; and
further that the applicant/permittee shall indemnify and hold harmless the City
from any and all liability attributable to granting the permit; and that the
applicant/permittee shall promptly pay all sums with respect to deductibles on
covered losses under insurance policies required by this chapter; and that the
applicant/permittee shall comply with all of the terms of this chapter
concerning the abandonment and/or plugging of all such wells. Each bond or
letter of credit submitted shall cover all wells drilled or operated by said
person within the City.
   c.    For good cause, the inspector, after notice to and hearing for a
permittee, may require the filing of a blanket bond or letter of credit in an
amount higher than $25,000.00 but not to exceed $100,000.00. "Good cause" shall
include, but shall not be limited to, a showing that the operator or permittee
has previously violated any of the provisions of Chapter 16 of this Code.
   d.   The blanket bond or letter of credit required by this section shall be
submitted and maintained in full force and effect at all times by all persons
drilling, completing, operating, maintaining and/or producing any well located
within the limits of the City.
(Ord. No. 296, 8, 2-2-82; Ord. No. 650, §1, 03-02-2010)
Sec. 16-11. Enhanced recovery and salt water or deleterious substances disposal
wells.
(a)   No person shall re-enter any well or drill an original well to be used
for enhanced recovery or disposal of salt water or other deleterious substances
without first obtaining the necessary permit, therefore. Such permit shall
consist of two (2) separate parts, a permit to drill or re-enter and construct,
and a permit to operate.
(b)   An application for the permit to drill or re-enter a well for enhanced
recovery or substance disposal shall be in the same form as that required for a
permit to drill an original well, and shall contain complete information
required by the oil and gas inspector, including the following:
(1)   A block map of the well site, showing all equipment to be used thereat,
location of pipelines, access road, and distances from the well to any and all
fences, public roadways, and buildings within a radius of three hundred and
thirty (330) feet;
(2)   A block map of the project, showing the location of:
   a.   All water supply wells with a one-fourth mile radius of each injection
or disposal well;
   b.   All public water supply wells, disposal wells, injection wells,
producing wells and plugged and abandoned wells with the project area and those
sections immediately adjacent;
   c.   All conduits; and
   d.   Tank battery, pumping station and appurtenant equipment;
(3)   All wells within the project area and those sections immediately adjacent
shall be indicated by status (e.g., plugged and abandoned, injection, salt
water, oil, etc.), and show the following additional information:
   a.   Footage location (surface casing);
   b.   Derrick floor and ground level elevation;
   c.   Drilled total depth;
   d.   Packer body total depth;
   e.   Size, depth and quality of surface and production casing, including
zones from which casing has been removed;
   f.   Location of all plugs, packers, and cement plugs, tubing anchors, etc.,
with the well bore;
   g.   Depth and nature of all cement squeeze jobs;
   h.   Formation name and depth of all open perforations in a producing open
hole;
   i.   Volume and type of cement used on surface and production strings;
   j.   Top of cement;
(4)   One (1) copy of all electric, mechanical, sample and driller's logs, if
available;
(5)   Fee and operation name for each well,
(6)   One (1) copy of all cement bond logs and production logs;
(7)   One (1) copy of all work performed on the well,
(8)   Copies of all information supplied to the corporation commission, and the
commission's approval of the project.
(c)   Upon the completion of the application required hereunder, the oil and
gas inspector shall have thirty (30) business days to review same and make a
recommendation of approval or disapproval to the city manager.
(d)   Prior to placing any enhanced recovery or substance disposal well into
service, a permit to operate such well shall be obtained from the oil and gas
inspector. Every application for a permit to operate such well shall contain
the following information:
(1)   Depth to static water level (hydrostatic head). Such date shall be
obtained by means of a method approved by the oil and gas inspector. Such data
shall be obtained not less than forty-eight (48) hours after openings have been
made through the casing into the injection disposal zone,
(2)   Based on the static water level identified in the previous paragraph,
maximum operating pressures and rates of injection shall be established and
maintained so as to prevent the hydraulic pressure level at a radius of ten
(10) feet from the injection or disposal wells from rising above the base
elevation of treatable water. Such maximum operating pressures and injection
rates shall be noted on the permit. No injection or disposal well will be
permitted to operate if the well's zone of influence will exceed the above
referenced limits.
(e)   A fee in the sum established by resolution shall be submitted along with
every application for a permit to operate an injection or substance disposal
well.
(f)   Copies of corporation commission Form No. 1015, indicating successful
pressure testing of each injection well at a pressure greater than the maximum
proposed for the project, or if no such Form No. 1015 has been filed and
approved, then sufficient evidence of the successful pressure testing of each
injection well shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector.
(g)    Every such injection or disposal well shall be constructed so as to seal
the injection zone from the upper portion of the casing. The annulus between
the injection tubing and casing shall be filled with a non-corrosive fluid,
then sealed and a one-fourth inch female fitting with cut-off valve shall be
attached so that the pressure in the annulus may be measured by the oil and gas
inspector by attaching a gauge having a one-fourth inch male fitting. A
pressure shall be maintained in the annulus sufficient to monitor the fluids in
the annulus. Any significant deviation from the established pressure shall be
cause to shut down the well, and may result in cancellation of the operating
permit, until such time as the established pressure can once again be
maintained.
(h)   Injection lines shall be buried in a trench of a depth no less than four
(4) feet and shall be pressure tested (static) annually at a minimum of one
hundred fifty (150) percent of the pressure normally encountered at the
injection pump discharge for a period of hours to be fixed by the oil and gas
inspector. Said oil and gas inspector shall be notified five (5) days in
advance of such test and may supervise same. Test results shall be filed with
the city upon completion.
(i)   Domestic and public water supply wells located within a radius of one-
quarter mile of any enhanced recovery or disposal well shall be tested prior to
beginning injection or disposal and thereafter semi-annually for the presence
of deleterious substances, such as chlorides, sulfates, and dissolved solids.
Such testing is the responsibility of the permittee and at permittee's expense,
to be conducted by a person approved by the oil and gas inspector. Said oil and
gas inspector shall be notified five (5) days in advance of such testing and
may be present, therefore. Test results shall be filed with the city upon
completion.
(Ord. No. 296, 9, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-12. Annual fee to operate.
An annual inspection fee is hereby levied upon each well operated or maintained
under a permit issued by the city; such fee shall be in the amount established
by resolution, payable to the city on or before the annual anniversary date of
the issuance of any permit under this chapter. No permit for any well shall be
considered valid for any year for which the annual fee has not been paid.
Failure to pay any required permit fee within thirty (30) days of a delinquent
notice sent to the latest address provided by the permittee will result in
cancellation of the permit.
(Ord. No. 296, 10, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-13. Disposal of salt water.
   (a)   Every permittee under this chapter shall be responsible for the safe
disposal of salt water or other deleterious substances, which he may bring to
the surface of the earth and shall provide a plan for such disposal as required
in section
16-9. Such disposal shall not result in pollution of the waters of the city and
shall not result in any other environmental hazard and shall incorporate the
best available techniques and equipment.
   (b)   In the event of any leakage or spillage of any pollutant or
deleterious substances, whatever the cause thereof, the permittee shall cause
the oil and gas inspector to be notified thereof promptly. If in the judgment
of the oil and gas inspector, such leakage or spillage represents a potential
environmental hazard, he may issue whatever corrective orders he deems
appropriate, and additionally may require the appropriate testing of the
surface and subsurface for pollutant incursion, the cost of such test or tests
to be borne by the permittee.
   (c)   No person shall dispose of salt water or other deleterious substance
in any lined or unlined earthen pit within the city limits.
   (d)   No person shall inject any salt water or other deleterious substance
into annulus between the inside of the surface casing string and the next
inside casing string, except when the bottom of the properly cemented surface
casing extends two hundred (200) feet or more through or into a continuous
impermeable clay barrier below the base of treatable water.
(Ord. No. 296, 11, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-14. Compliance with applicable laws.
No person shall drill an original well or re-enter an abandoned well for any
purpose, or permit to exist any well, structure, equipment, pipeline,
machinery, tank, or other appurtenance, in violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter or other city ordinances as may be applicable, or the laws,
rules, regulations, operative standards, or directives of the state.
(Ord. No. 296, 12, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-15. Surface casing.
   (a)   Surface casing shall be set a minimum of two hundred (200) feet below
the deepest encounter of treatable water found in eight (8) sections adjacent
to the section in which the well is located. Logs, which identify the base of
treatable water, shall be run in the surface hole before the surface pipe is
set. A copy of such logs shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector.
   (b)   In lieu of subsection (a), surface casing may be set without the above
required logging, provided the applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the oil and gas inspector that the bottom of the surface casing will extend
through or into at least two hundred (200) feet of continuous impermeable clay
barrier below the base of treatable water, is properly cemented and cement bond
logs run with the quality of the cement bond approved by the oil and gas
inspector. Surface pipe shall have a centralizer on the shoe joint, and
centralizer no more than two hundred (200) feet apart above the second
centralizer.
   (c)   Surface pipe shall be cemented by attempting to circulate good cement
to surface by normal displacement practices. If cement cannot be circulated to
surface due to washed out hole or lost circulation, the existing cement shall
not be over-displayed, and plug shall be left in the bottom of the casing
string to be drilled out once the surface is set. The remaining open hole
behind the surface pipe shall be cemented by running a tubing string between
the conductor string and the surface pipe until the top of the cement is
tagged. The remaining un-cemented annular space will then be cemented until
good cement is circulated to surface. No further drilling shall be accomplished
until the cement has set for at least twenty-four (24) hours, or in the
alternative, until samples of the cement have passed independent laboratory
tests satisfactory to the oil and gas inspector.
   (d)   Where an existing well is to be used as an injection or disposal site,
the existing casing and cement shall be of such integrity and depth as to
adequately and safely isolate fresh water producing zones from the seepage or
bleeding of injection fluids or disposants. Where additional protective
operations are undertaken to comply with this paragraph, the oil and gas
inspector shall be notified thereof sufficiently in advance in order for him to
be present for such operations.
(Ord. No. 296, 13, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-16. Abandoned and plugging.
Whenever any well is abandoned it shall be the obligation of the permittee and
the operator of the well to set a two hundred (200) foot cement plug in the
bottom of the surface casing, with the bottom of the plug one hundred (100)
feet below the surface casing section; and to set a fifty (50) foot cement plug
in the top of the surface casing. No surface or conductor string of casing may
be pulled or removed from a well. During initial abandonment operations it will
be the obligation of the permittee and operator to flood the well with mud-
laden fluid weighing not less than nine (9) pounds per gallon, and to circulate
this mud until stabilized, and the well shall be kept filled to the top with
mud-laden fluid above the specifications and the mud will be left in the well
bore below and between cement plugs. Any additional provisions or precautionary
measures prescribed by the state or the corporation commission of the state in
connection with the abandonment and plugging of a well shall be complied with
by the permittee.
(Ord. No 296, 14, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-17. Well location.
No permit shall be issued for the drilling of an original well or the re-entry
of an abandoned well at any location which is nearer than three hundred (300)
feet of any permanent residence or commercial building, or which is closer than
three hundred (300) feet to a producing fresh water well. However, nothing
herein shall limit, restrict, or prevent an operator from being able to work
over or re-drill a well that was drilled or in production on or before August
1, 1987. A re-drilled well shall be located no further than fifty (50) feet
from the original well it replaces.
(Ord. No 296, 15, 2-2-82; Ord. No. 313, 1, 11-18-82; Ord. No. 494, 3, 10-19-93)
Sec. 16-18. Fences.
Any person who completes any well as a producer shall have the obligation to
enclose said well, together with its surface facilities, by a fence
sufficiently high and properly built so as to ordinarily keep persons and
animals out of the enclosure with all gates thereto to be kept locked when the
permittee or his employees are not within the enclosure. In non-platted areas
the oil and gas inspector, at his discretion, may waive the requirement of any
fence or may designate the type of fence to be erected. Fences must be kept
locked at all times workers of permittee are not present; a duplicate set of
keys to said lock shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector.
(Ord. No. 296, 16, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-19. Noise and other nuisances.
All oil operations, drilling and production operations shall be conducted in
such a manner as to eliminate, as far as practicable, dust, noise, vibration,
or noxious odors, and shall be in accordance with the accepted practices
incident to exploration for, drilling for and production of oil, gas, and other
hydrocarbon substances. Proven technological improvements in exploration,
drilling, and production methods shall be adopted as they become, from time to
time, available, if capable of reducing factors of nuisance and annoyance.
(Ord. No. 296, 17, 2-2-82; Ord. No. 494, 4, 10-19-93)
Sec. 16-20. Facilities.
All lease equipment shall be painted and maintained in a good state of
appearance, and shall have posted in a prominent place a metal sign no less
than two (2) feet square in area upon which the following information shall be
conspicuous:
(1)   Permittee's name;
(2)   Lease name;
(3)   Location of the drill site by reference to the United States survey; and
(4)   Identifying number of the permit issued by the city.
(Ord. No. 296, 18, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-21. Storage tanks and separators.
(a)   Crude oil storage tanks shall not be constructed, operated, or used
except to the extent of two (2) steel tanks for oil storage, not exceeding five
hundred (500) barrels capacity each and so constructed and maintained as to be
vapor tight. Additional tankage may be approved by the oil and gas inspector.
(b)   A permittee may use, construct, and operate a steel conventional
separator and/or such other steel tanks and appurtenances as are necessary for
treating oil with each of such facilities to be so constructed and maintained
as to be vapor tight.
Each oil gas separator shall be equipped with both a regulation pressure-relief
safety valve and a bursting head.
(Ord. No. 296, 19, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-22. Fire prevention.
Adequate fire fighting apparatus and supplies approved by the city fire
department shall be maintained on the drilling site at all times during
drilling and production operations. All machinery, equipment, and installations
on all drilling sites within the city limits shall conform to such requirements
as may from time to time be issued by the fire department.
(Ord. No. 296, 20, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-23. Pits.
Steel mud or circulating pits shall be used. Such pits and contents shall be
removed from the premise and the drilling site within fifteen (15) days after
completion of the well. Earthen pits will be allowed only as temporary
emergency pits and/or as catch basins. Catch basin pits shall be used only for
the purpose of catching any deleterious substance runoff and shall be no
greater than three hundred and twenty (320) cubic feet. Such catch basin will
be equipped with a liquid level activated pump designed to keep fluids pumped
out of such catch basin pit. All such earthen pits must be lined and approved
in writing by the oil and gas inspector. Emergency pits shall be emptied as
soon as the emergency is over, and all such pits shall be emptied and then
leveled within fifteen (15) days after completion of the well.
(Ord. No. 296, 21, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-24. Retaining walls.
   (a)   An earthen retaining wall of adequate size for the terrain involved
will be constructed on the low side of the well site in the event the well site
is located on sloping or unlevel ground. The top of the retaining wall shall be
at least level with the top of the base of the Christmas tree or other wellhead
connections on any completed well, or at least level with the ground at the
point where surface casing is set in the well when drilling.
   (b)   An earthen diversion wall of adequate size for the terrain involved
shall be constructed on the high side of the well site in the event the well
site is located on sloping or unlevel ground. The diversion wall will be of
sufficient height and strength so as to divert runoff waters around the well
site.
   (c)   Each permittee or person responsible for operating and maintaining any
well or tank battery permitted pursuant to this Chapter shall take appropriate
measures to prevent runoff waters around the well or battery site from
depositing mud on adjacent properties, streets, parking lots and public ways.
(Ord. No. 296, 22, 2-2-82; 2004 City Code)
Sec. 16-25. Motive power for pumps.
Motive power for well pumping equipment may be by gas, gasoline, or diesel
engine if equipped with "hospital" type mufflers; otherwise, it shall be by
electric motor.
(Ord. No. 296, 23, 2-2-82; Ord. No. 494, 5, 10-19-93)
Sec. 16-26. Derrick and rig.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate in connection with the
drilling, re-entry or reworking of any well within the city, any wooden derrick
or any steam-powered rig, and all engines shall be equipped with adequate
mufflers approved by the oil and gas inspector. Permitting any drilling rig or
derrick to remain on the premises or drilling site for a period of longer than
sixty (60) days after completion or abandonment of a well is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. No. 296, 24, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-27. Drilling operations; equipment.
All drilling, re-entry, and operations at any well performed under this chapter
shall be conducted in accordance with the practices of the reasonably prudent
operator. All casing, valves, and blowout preventers, drilling fluid, tubing,
bradenhead, Christmas tree, and wellhead connections shall be of a type and
quality consistent with the practices of such reasonable prudent operator.
Setting and cementing casing and running drill stem tests shall be performed in
a manner and at a time consistent with the practices of such reasonable prudent
operator. Any permittee under this chapter shall observe and follow the
recommendations of regulations of the American Petroleum Institute and the
corporation commission, except in those instances that are specifically
addressed by this chapter. A copy of all logs associated with the surface
casing shall be filed with the oil and gas inspector.
(Ord. No. 296, 25, 2-2-82; Ord. No. 494, 6, 10-19-93)
Sec. 16-28. Moving of drilling rig.
It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to move or cause to be moved
the drilling rig from a well until the hole has been cased or properly plugged
unless written permission to do so is obtained from the oil and gas inspector.
(Ord. No. 296, 26, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-29. Streets and alleys.
No well shall be drilled, and no permit shall be issued for any well to be
drilled at any location, which is within any of the streets or alleys of the
city. No street or alley shall be blocked or encumbered or closed in any
drilling or production operation except with the written approval of the oil
and gas inspector or city manager, and then only temporarily.
(Ord. No. 296, 27, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-30. Flaring of gas.
All produced gas shall either be sold or flared with the flaring procedures
being approved by the oil and gas inspector and the fire marshal.
(Ord. No. 296, 28, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-31. Fracture and acidizing.
In the completion of oil and gas, injection, disposal, or service well, where
acidizing of fracturing processes are used, no oil, gas, or other deleterious
substances or pollutants shall be permitted to pollute any surface or
subsurface fresh waters.
(Ord. No. 296, 29, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-32. Swabbing and bailing.
In swabbing, bailing, or purging a well, all deleterious substances removed
from the borehole shall be placed in appropriate tanks and no substances shall
be permitted to pollute any surface or subsurface fresh waters.
(Ord. No. 296, 30, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-33. Rupture in surface casing.
In the event a rupture, break or opening occurs in the surface or production
casing, the permittee or the operator or drilling contractor shall take
immediate action to repair it, and shall report the incident to the oil and gas
inspector promptly.
(Ord. No. 296, 31, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-34. Depositing oil products.
No person shall deposit, drain, or divert into or upon any public highway,
street or alley, drainage ditch, storm drain, sewer, gutter, paving, creek,
river, lake, or lagoon, any oil or oily liquid with petroleum content or any
mud, rotary mud, sand, water, or salt water, or in any manner permit by
seepage, overflow, deliberate release or otherwise, any of such substances to
escape from any property owned, leased, or controlled by such person and flow
or be carried into or upon any public highway, street or alley, drainage ditch,
storm drain, sewer, gutter, paving, creek, river, lake or lagoon, within the
city.
(Ord. No. 296, 32, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-35. Water for muds.
In the event a freshwater supply well is drilled to provide for drilling muds,
upon the completion of for which such well is required, such well shall be
plugged by cementing top to bottom, after notice of intention to so plug is
provided the oil and gas inspector, who may supervise the operation.
(Ord. No. 296, 33, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-36. Service companies.
Upon request of the oil and gas inspector, service companies or other persons
shall furnish and file reports and records showing perforating, hydraulic
fracturing, cementing, shooting, chemical treatment and all other service
operations on any site covered by this ordinance. Such furnished material shall
remain confidential where such confidentiality is usually granted by the state.
Failure to provide any such requested material shall be unlawful.
(Ord. No. 296, 35, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-37. Accumulation of vapor.
The oil and gas inspector shall have the authority to require the immediate
shutting in or closing of any well if he finds that there exists, within a one-
hundred-foot radius of any well, any gas or gasoline vapor in a quantity
sufficient to constitute, in his judgment, or in the judgment of the city fire
marshal, a fire hazard. The well shall remain shut or closed in until the
hazard and its cause are removed.
(Ord. No. 296, 36, 2-2-82)
Sec. 37-38. Inspection of pressure lines.
The oil and gas inspector shall inspect all pressure lines in use at any well
or at any project to assure that tubing, fittings, equipment, or connections
are reasonably tight, safe, and free from leaks.
(Ord. No. 296, 37, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-39. Ingress and egress.
Lease roads shall be maintained in such a manner as to safely and comfortably
allow for ingress and egress of city or state personnel traveling in a common
passenger motor vehicle.
(Ord. No. 296, 38, 2-2-82)
Sec. 16-40. Conduits on streets and alleys.
(a)   No permittee under this chapter shall make any excavations or construct
any lines for the conveyance of fuel, water, or minerals, on, under, or through
the streets and alleys of the city without first having obtained a permit
therefore upon application to the city clerk.
(b)   The city clerk shall prescribe the forms to be used for such application
and the information to accompany it.
(c)   Each application for a permit under this section shall be accompanied by
a non-refundable filing fee in the amount established by resolution.
(d)   The city manager shall, within twenty (20) days of receipt of the
properly executed application, either grant or deny the request.
(e)   The granting of any such permit shall not be construed to be the granting
of a franchise.
(f)   The permittee under this section shall pay to the city an annual renewal
and inspection fee in the amount established by resolution.
(g)   The city manager shall appoint a representative who shall inspect such
conduits to assure the public safety. No permit issued under this section shall
be renewed if the conduit or any part thereof covered by such permit is in
unsafe condition.
(Ord. No. 296, 42, 2-2-82)
CHAPTER 17
PARKS AND RECREATION
DIVISION 1. IN GENERAL
Sec. 17-1. Enforcement.
   The city manager, all police and peace officers and all city officials and
employees shall, in connection with their duties imposed by law, diligently
enforce the provisions of this chapter. All such persons shall have the
authority to eject from any park any person acting in violation of this
chapter.
(Code 1976, § 7-4-5)
Sec. 17-2. Compliance.
   No person shall refuse to leave any park or remain in any park during such
hours as the park is closed for public use and occupancy or violate any of the
provisions of the rules and regulations established by the city manager, issued
pursuant to this chapter or refuse to obey any order or directive issued by the
city manager, any peace officer or officer, official or employee of the city
acting pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 7-4-6)
Sec. 17-3. Rules and regulations.
   All persons using parks shall be bound by this chapter and such other rules
and regulations as the city manager in his discretion may see fit to promulgate
and shall be bound by all applicable ordinances as fully as though the same
were inserted herein.
(Code 1976, § 7-4-4)
Sec. 17-4. General regulations for use of parks.
   (a)   Proposed activities in or use of parks shall not reasonably interfere
or detract from the general public enjoyment of this park.
   (b)   The activities in and use of the parks must not unreasonably interfere
with or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety, and
recreation.
   (c)   The activities and the use of the parks shall not be of a nature
reasonably anticipated to excite violence, crime, or disorderly conduct.
   (d)   The proposed activities in and the use of the park shall not entail
unusual, extraordinary, or burdensome expense or police operation by the city.
   (e)   No person shall drive or maneuver across, or stop, stand, or park any
vehicle on any unpaved surface located in a public park. The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to:
   1)   Vehicles used in conjunction with special events approved by the City,
   2)   Authorized emergency vehicles, or
   3)   Vehicles or machinery used in the construction or maintenance of a
public park or used in the construction or maintenance of utilities running
through or immediately adjacent to a public park.
   4)   The meaning of "paved surface" and "vehicle" shall be as defined by
Section
13-228 of this code.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or otherwise hit a golf
ball in any public park, provided however, that this prohibition shall not
apply to plastic "wiffle" balls that are commonly used for practice purposes.
(Code 1976, § 7-4-3) (Ord. No. 554, §1, 3-21-00; Ord. No. 571, §1, 10-16-01)
State law reference--Public parks and recreation generally, 11 O.S. § 33-101.
Sec. 17-5. Hours of park operation.
   All public parks within the city shall be open and available for use by
members of the public from sunrise until 10:00 p.m. each day except as
hereinafter provided. The city manager, for good cause shown and in accordance
with the standards of this article may extend hours of operation of any park or
portion thereof for the purpose of recreational, religious, civic, charitable,
benevolent, fraternal, or other similar activities.
(Code 1976, § 7-4-1)
Sec. 17-6. Emergency closing of parks.
   When an emergency exists that affects the health, safety and welfare of the
city or the inhabitants thereof or the maintenance of order, safety and decency
in any park, any section or part of any park, may be declared temporarily
closed to the public by the city manager for such times or intervals of time as
the city manager shall find reasonably necessary. Such closing will be a
complete closing or may apply merely to certain uses as the city manager may
determine.
(Code 1976, § 7-4-2)
DIVISION 2. PARK COMMISSION
Sec. 17-100. Created.
A Park Commission shall be created upon the appointment of Commissioners by the
City Council.
(Ord. No. 617 §1, 6-20-2006)
Sec. 17-101. Membership.
   (a)   The Park Commission shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the
city council, all of which shall reside in the city.
   (b)   Each member shall serve for a term of three (3) years without
compensation.
   (c)   When the commission is first appointed, the terms of three (3) of the
members shall be for three (3) years and two members (2) for two (2) years.
   (d)   Appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the un-expired terms only.
   (e)   The commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from its
membership and the chairman and vice-chairman shall each serve a one-year term.
   (f)   One member of the City Council shall serve as an ex officio member of
the commission but shall not have a vote on commission matters.
   (g)   If any commission member is absent without cause as defined by the
city council for three (3) consecutive meetings, he shall, after notice,
thereupon cease to be a commission member.
(Ord. No. 617 §1, 6-20-2006)
Sec. 17-102. Meetings.
   (a)   Three (3) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, provided, however, that no action shall be taken as
binding upon the commission unless concurred in by not less than a majority of
all the members present. All actions of the commission shall be reported to the
council.
   (b)   The commission shall be subject to the open meeting laws of this state
and all meetings, deliberations and voting of the commission shall be open to
the public.
   (c)   The commission shall establish regular meeting dates for each calendar
year as required by the open meeting act but shall not be required to meet in
the absence of business.
   (d)   The commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, which shall be immediately filed in the office of the city clerk and
shall be a public record.
(Ord. No. 617 §1, 6-20-2006)
Sec. 17-103. Duties and powers.
   (a)   The Park Commission shall prepare from time-to-time plans for the
betterment of parks within city as places of recreation for residents of the
city. It may consider and investigate any subject matter relating to the
development and betterment of said parks and make recommendations to the City
Council as it may deem advisable concerning park policies, park improvements or
beautification plans thereof. The necessary expenses incurred by the commission
shall be approved in advance by the City Council and shall be paid out of the
city treasury as other legal expenses of the city.
   (b)   The Park Commission shall be authorized to recruit volunteers, seek
grants, and solicit donations for use in park improvements, provided however,
that all funds received shall be deposited in a special project fund or funds
created and administered by the city in accordance with applicable law.
   (c)   The Park Commission shall be authorized to establish, administer, and
coordinate Adopt-A-Park programs as deemed appropriate by the commission.
(Ord. No. 617 §1, 6-20-2006)
CHAPTER 18
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES CODE
Sec.
18-100.   DEFINITIONS
Sec.
18-101.   MEDICAL DIRECTOR
Sec.
18-102.   MEDICAL CONTROL BOARD
Sec.
18-103.   EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS' FOUNDATION
Sec.
18-104.   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AUTHORITY
Sec.
18-105.   MANDATORY CENTRALIZED CALL PROCESSING
Sec.
18-106.   MANDATORY EMS DATA SYSTEM AND REPORTING STANDARDS
Sec.
18-107.   INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
Sec.
18-108.   SPECIALIZED MOBILE INTENSIVE CARE CERTIFICATIONS
Sec.
18-109.   CLINICAL QUALITY OF AMBULANCE SERVICES
Sec.
18-110.   AMBULANCE RESPONSE TIME PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS
Sec.
18-111.   PROHIBITION AGAINST REFUSAL TO TRANSPORT
Sec.
18-112.   FIRST RESPONDER AGENCY CERTIFICATION
Sec.
18-113.   PROCEDURES FOR DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF A CERTIFICATION
Sec.
18-114.   VIOLATIONS
Sec.
18-115.   PENALTIES
Sec.
18-116.   QUALITY ASSURANCE FEE
Sec.
18-117.   AMBULANCE FEE
Sec.
18-118.   SEVERABILITY
Sec.
18-119.   REPEALER
Sec.
18-120.   EMERGENCY
Sec. 18-100. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this code, shall have
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
A.   Ambulance means any vehicle, which is designed and equipped to transport
ill or injured persons in a reclining position to or from health care
facilities.
B.   Ambulance Response Time Standards means:
For the western division beneficiary jurisdiction and non-beneficiary
jurisdictions:
Priority 1      10:59 and under
Priority 2      24:59 and under
(* after agreed-upon pickup appointment)
For the Eastern division non-beneficiary jurisdictions:
Priority 1      10:59 and under
Priority 2      24:59 and under
[* after agreed-upon pickup appointment]
C.   Ambulance Service means a person or organization, governmental or private,
which operates one or more ambulances as defined herein for purposes of
transporting ill or injured patients in a reclining position to or from health
care facilities.
D.   Amended and Restated Trust Indenture means the Amended and Restated Trust
Indenture for the Emergency Medical Services Authority dated March 23, 1990,
and any amendments thereto.
E.   Base Station Physician means a physician licensed to practice medicine in
the State of Oklahoma, from whom ambulance and first responder personnel may
take medical direction by radio or other remote communications device; and who
has been certified by the Regional Medical Director as being knowledgeable of
the EMS System's medical protocols, radio procedures, and the general operating
policies of the EMS System.
F.   Beneficiary Member Jurisdiction means the City of Tulsa, and the City of
Oklahoma City.
G.   Eastern Division means that portion of the Regulated Service Area, which
is located east of Stroud.
H.   Emergency Medical Services Authority (EMSA) means the trust established by
the City of Tulsa, pursuant to 60 Okla., Statutes, 176, et seq., as amended and
whose beneficiaries are, jointly, the City of Tulsa and the City of Oklahoma
City, and which is established to provide ambulance services to the Cities of
Tulsa, Oklahoma City, and other jurisdictions within the Regulated Service
Area.
I.   Emergency Call means a request for ambulance service by or for a patient
whose apparent condition, at the time the call is received, presumptively meets
the criteria for classification as Priority 1 or Priority 2, when classified in
accordance with telephone algorithms and medical priority dispatch protocols
approved by the Medical Control Board.
J.   Emergency Medical Personnel means those persons who participate directly
in the performance of one or more emergency medical services, as defined
herein.
K.   Emergency Medical Services (EMS) means the following prehospital and
inter-hospital services:
   1.   Access and Coordination. The answering and processing of telephone
requests from the public for ambulance or first responder services, and
including EMS dispatching, emergency, and routine; the giving of medical pre-
arrival instructions to callers by telephone; but excluding the process of 911
complaint-taking when the caller is immediately transferred to an EMS Control
Center;
   2.   First Responder Services. Those emergency services, excluding
transportation, which are performed by a First Responder Agency certified by
the Medical Director;
   3.   Medical Transportation. Ambulance services, both emergency and routine,
including patient assessment, transportation, and medical procedures performed
on-scene, enroute, during inter-facility transport, or at an emergency
receiving facility when performed at the request of the receiving physician;
and,
   4.   On-line Medical Direction. Instructions given by base station
physicians to first responders or ambulance personnel at the scene of an
emergency, while enroute to a hospital or during an inter-facility patient
transfer.
L.   Emergency Physicians Foundation (EPF) means that administrative agency
established jointly by this and other jurisdictions, which have approved the
EMS Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, pursuant to 74 Oklahoma Statutes, Sec.
1001, et seq., as amended and have adopted this Uniform Code for Emergency
Medical Services.
M.   EMS Control Center (or "Control Center") means either of two facilities
operated by EMSA, one of which serves as central EMS communications center for
the Eastern Division, and the other of which serves as central EMS
communications center for the Western Division. EMSA may, at its option,
consolidate the operations of the two EMS Control Centers to create a single
EMS Control Center to serve the entire Regulated Service Area.
N.   EMS Interlocal Cooperation Agreement means that certain Agreement of same
title approved by the governing body of the beneficiary jurisdictions.
O.   First Responder means any person, fire department unit, law enforcement
unit, or non-transporting rescue unit capable of providing appropriate first
responder service, excluding transportation, under the auspices of a Certified
First Responder Agency.
P.   Medical Control Board means that body of nine (9) physicians established
jointly by this and other jurisdictions pursuant to the EMS Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement and this Code for purposes of providing medical
supervision, monitoring, and regulation of the Regional EMS System.
Q.   Medical Director or Regional Medical Director means the licensed physician
appointed by the Medical Control Board to perform the duties and
responsibilities granted and ascribed to the Medical Director herein and in the
EMS Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.
R.   Medical Protocol means any diagnosis-specific or problem-oriented written
statement of standard procedure, or algorithm, promulgated by the Medical
Director and approved by the Medical Control Board as the medically appropriate
standard of pre-hospital care for a given clinical condition.
S.   Member Jurisdiction means any municipality or EMS District which adopts
and enforces this Code, and which approves the EMS Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement.
T.   Mutual Aid Agreement means a written agreement between EMSA, and a
neighboring primary provider of Emergency Medical Service approved by the
Medical Director as to its quality of care and medical accountability, whereby
the signing parties agree to lend emergency aid to one another subject to
conditions and terms specified in the agreement.
U.   Non-beneficiary jurisdictions mean jurisdictions that are not beneficiary
jurisdictions as defined herein, including municipalities, counties, EMS
districts, school districts, Indian Nations, or other legal entities that elect
to contract with the trustees of EMSA in order to be included in the regulated
service area.
V.   Operations Contract means that contract awarded by EMSA by competitive bid
award for provision of ambulance services throughout the Regulated Service
Area.
W.   Operations Contractor means the person or firm contracted by EMSA pursuant
to the operations contract.
X.   Patient means an individual who is ill, sick, injured, wounded, or
incapacitated, and who needs, or is at risk of needing, medical care, or
assessment during transportation to or from a health care facility, and who is
or should be transported in a reclining position, as determined in accordance
with applicable provisions of the System Standard of Care.
Y.   Person means and includes any individual, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, or other group or combination acting as a unit.
Z.   Presumptive Priority Classification means the designation by a system
status controller (SSC) of a request for service as Priority 1, 2, 3, or 4, in
accordance with telephone algorithms and medical priority dispatching protocols
approved by the Medical Control Board.
AA.   Priority means the call priority number (i.e., Priority 1, 2, 3, or 4)
assigned to every request for service received by an EMS Control Center. Such
priorities shall be assigned only by a certified SSC, pursuant to telephone
algorithms and priority dispatch protocols established by the Medical Director
and approved by the Medical Control Board. Classifications shall be consistent
with the following definitions:
Priority 1 Call means a presumptively classified life-threatening emergency
call;
Priority 2 Call means a presumptively classified non-life-threatening emergency
call,
Priority 3 Call means a presumptively classified request for routine patient
transport scheduled less than twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the
requested time of pickup; or an unscheduled, non-emergency request for service
and,
Priority 4 Call means a presumptively classified request for routine patient
transport scheduled twenty-four (24) hours or more in advance of the requested
time of pickup.
BB.   Quality Assurance Fund means the fund account which is established
pursuant to the EMS Interlocal Cooperation Agreement and, concurrently, by
adoption of this Code, and which is administered by EMSA on behalf of the
Medical Control board, and which shall be used solely to fund the activities
and related expenses of the Medical Control Board in carrying out its duties
and responsibilities as set forth herein and in the EMS Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement.
CC.   Regional EMS System means that network of organizations, individuals,
facilities, and equipment which provides emergency medical services, as defined
herein, to jurisdictions within the Regulated Service Area, subject to the
System Standard of Care approved by the Medical Control Board.
DD.   Regulated Service Area means the combined area, which is contained within
the boundaries of the municipalities and EMS Districts which have adopted and
agreed to enforce this Uniform Code for Emergency Medical Services, and which
have approved the EMS Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.
EE.   Response Time--Ambulance means the actual elapsed time between receipt by
the EMS Control Center of the call, and the arrival of a permitted ambulance or
mutual aid ambulance (approved by the Medical Director) at the scene of the
incident. For scheduled non-emergency [priority 4] requests, "scheduled time of
pick-up" shall be substituted for the "time call received" in the response time
calculation.
FF.   Response Time--First Responder means the actual elapsed time between
notification of the first responder agency by the EMS Control Center that a
first response unit is needed at a given location, and the arrival of a first
response unit at the incident scene.
GG.   Routine Transport Call means a request for ambulance service by or for a
patient whose apparent condition, at the time the call is received,
presumptively meets the criteria for classification as Priority 3 or Priority
4, when classified in accordance with telephone algorithms and medical priority
dispatch protocols approved by the Medical Control Board.
HH.    Special Events Ambulance Standby Service means the positioning of an
ambulance and crew at the location of a publicly or privately sponsored event.
II.   Sub-area is a section of the eastern division's beneficiary jurisdiction
or of the combined beneficiary and non-beneficiary jurisdiction in the western
division drawn so as to divide the service area into three geographical areas
for the purpose of equalizing response times within the area
JJ.   System Standard of Care means the written body of standards, policies,
and protocols governing all clinical aspects of the EMS system, which is
approved by the governing bodies of the Beneficiary Member Jurisdictions, and
which is developed and periodically updated in accordance with procedures set
forth in the EMS Interlocal Cooperation Agreement. As used in this context,
System Standard of Care is a comprehensive term including:
   1.   Input Standards including but not limited to personnel certification
require-ments, in-service training requirements, equipment specifications, on-
board inventory requirements, and other requirements, which the system must
fulfill before, receipt of a request for service,
   2.   Performance Standards including but not limited to medical priority
dispatching protocols and pre-arrival instructions, medical protocols, standing
orders, response time standards, protocols governing authority for on-scene
control of patient care, and other performance specifications describing how
the system should behave upon receipt of a request for service; and,
   3.   Outcome Standards including but not limited to target survival rates
for certain narrowly defined presenting problems or presumptive diagnoses, such
as witnessed cardiac arrests involving patients whose medical histories meet
defined criteria. Outcome standards are resulting the system intends to achieve
by meeting its input and performance standards.
KK.   System Status Controller (SSC) means a person certified by the Medical
Director as trained and competent to properly employ telephone algorithms,
medical priority dispatching protocols, and pre-arrival instructions approved
by the Medical Control Board, and to operate the EMS Control Center's computer-
aided dispatch system in accordance with the System Status Plan, so as to
maintain the best possible ambulance coverage of the Regulated Service Area,
given the remaining resources available at any point in time.
LL.   System Status Plan means the plan and protocols for staffing, deployment,
and redeployment of ambulances which is developed and utilized by EMSA's
operations contractor, and which specifies how many ambulances will be staffed
and available within the Regulated Service Area each hour of the day, each day
of the week, including the locations of available ambulances (not assigned to
calls) within the Regulated Service Area, specified separately for each hour of
the day, for each day of the week, and every remaining number of ambulances
then-available in the system, and including protocols for event-driven re-
deployment of those remaining ambulances.
MM.   Western Division means that portion of the Regulated Service Area which
is located west of Stroud, and which may include the City of Stroud subject to
requirements set forth in the EMS Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.
Sec. 18-101. Medical Director.
The Medical Director shall be appointed by the Medical Control Board as
provided for in the EMS Interlocal Cooperation Agreement; shall recommend a
System Standard of Care designed to achieve a state-of-the-art quality of
emergency medical care within the Regulated Service Area; shall certify
ambulances and personnel as meeting the requirements of this ordinance, and
shall have those powers and duties granted and ascribed to him in the EMS
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, plus such additional powers and duties as are
granted and ascribed to him herein.
Sec. 18-102. Medical Control Board.
The Medical Control Board is hereby designated as the elected representatives
constituting the Board of Directors of the EPF. Its members shall be appointed
by the Emergency Physicians Foundation as provided for in the EMS Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement. The Medical Control Board shall be the policymaking,
rule-making, and fact-finding body of the EPF, and shall review and establish
all aspects of the System Standard of Care; and shall have those powers and
duties granted and ascribed to it in the EMS Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.
Sec. 18-103. Emergency Physicians Foundation (EPF).
The Emergency Physicians Foundation, acting through its appointed Medical
Control Board, is established, concurrently herewith, by adoption of the EMS
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement as the administrative agency to oversee
clinical aspects of the care rendered by the Regional EMS System to the
citizens of the Regulated Service Area. The EPF shall have the powers and
duties granted and ascribed to it in the EMS Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.
Sec. 18-104. Emergency Medical Services Authority (EMSA).
EMSA is hereby designated as the sole provider of emergency and routine
ambulance transport within the Regulated Service Area, pursuant to 60 O.S. 1-
2415, et seq. seq. No person or entity may provide emergency, routine or
special events ambulance services in the regulated service area unless acting
as EMSA's operations contractor. EMSA is authorized and directed to take such
steps as are necessary to ensure the availability of both emergency and routine
ambulance services within the regulated service area, subject to the following
requirements:
A.   EMSA shall at all times comply with the terms of the EMS Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement, the Amended and Restated Trust Indenture, this uniform
Code for emergency medical services, and all other applicable laws, rules, and
regulations;
B.   Except during emergencies as provided by law, EMSA shall at all times
employ a competitively selected operations contractor who shall operate the EMS
Control Centers (Eastern and Western Divisions) and directly provide all
ambulance services rendered under EMSA's trade name,
C.   In contracting for the provision of ambulance services, EMSA shall employ
such bidding processes and contracting methods as are reasonable and effective
in ensuring the uninterrupted and reliable delivery of quality ambulance
services to the citizens of the Regulated Service Area,
D.   All services provided by EMSA through its operations contractor or, in the
event of an emergency directly by EMSA, shall meet or exceed the standards set
forth herein and in the System Standard of Care, as approved and periodically
updated by the Medical Control Board; and,
E.   EMSA's operations contractor shall operate as a subcontractor to EMSA and
under EMSA's state EMS permit. EMSA shall maintain a valid Oklahoma State EMS
permit at all times.
Sec. 18-105. Mandatory Centralized Call Processing.
A.   All telephone requests for Ambulance Services, both emergency and routine,
originating within the Regulated Service Area shall terminate at an EMS Control
Center, where a certified system status controller (SSC) shall establish the
call's Priority classification, determine the patient's location, and if
appropriate, deliver pre-arrival instructions. The SSC shall also determine the
need for first responder service; alert the first responder agency if
appropriate; and directly dispatch the call.
B.   During times of disaster or severe EMS system overload, declared by the
President of EMSA or his designee, the EMS control center shall at all times
have full authority to direct the positioning, movements, and run responses of
all ambulance units of all ambulance services until such time as the
declaration has been lifted.
C.   All calls processed by an EMS control center shall be recorded to
facilitate subsequent auditing of the SSC's actions and decisions by the
Medical Director, and all such recordings shall be safely stored and shall be
erased after an appropriate interval or as provided by law.
Sec. 18-106. Mandatory EMS Data System and Reporting Standards.
A.   EMSA's operations contractor and every Certified First Responder Agency,
shall comply with EMS data system and reporting standards as prescribed by the
Medical Director; provided, however, that changes in data collection or
reporting requirements which may reasonably be expected to require costly
modification of existing computer hardware or software shall be approved by
EMSA prior to implementation.
Sec. 18-107. Insurance Requirements.
   A.   EMSA's operations contractor shall keep in full force and effect a
policy or policies of public liability and property damage insurance, executed
by a financially stable insurance carrier[s] acceptable to EMSA and licensed or
permitted to write insurance by the Oklahoma Insurance Commission, with
coverage provisions insuring the public from any loss or damage that may arise
to any person or property by reason of the operation of EMSA's ambulances, and
providing that amount of recovery shall be in limits of not less than the
following sums:
   1.   Commercial general liability insurance including but not limited to
commercial owner and contractor protection, operational products, completed
operations, property, and personal injury with limits of not less than
$1,000,000.00 per occurrence; and $2,000,000.00 aggregate. Coverage shall be on
an occurrence basis.
   2.   Workers' compensation coverage to statutory limits as required by law;
employer's liability insurance of not less than $1,000,000.00 bodily injury by
incident; and, $1,000,000.00 bodily injury by disease for each employee.
   3.   Comprehensive automobile liability covering all vehicles used by the
operations contractor, including owned, hired, and non-owed vehicles, with
minimum limits of $1,000,000.00 combined single limit for bodily injury
[including death] per occurrence, and property damage of not less than
$1,000,000.00 per occurrence.
   4.   Automobile physical damage insurance for comprehensive and collision
covering all vehicles provided by EMSA and used under this contract.
   B.   EMSA's operations contractor shall keep in full force and effect a
general comprehensive liability and professional liability policy or policies
issued by a casualty insurance company licensed or permitted to write insurance
by the Oklahoma Insurance Commission, with coverage provisions insuring the
public from any loss or damage that may arise to any person or property by
reason of the actions of the operations contractor or any of his employees, and
providing that the amount of recovery shall be in limits of not less than the
following sums:
   1.   Professional medical liability insurance including errors and omissions
with minimum limits of $1,000,000.00 per occurrence and $2,000,000.00 annual
aggregate.
   2.   "Umbrella" coverage in the amount of at least $5,000,000.00 shall be
provided as additional coverage to all underlying policies.
   C.   EMSA's operations contractor shall furnish to EMSA, original and
duplicate certificates of insurance, which shall indicate the types of
insurance, the amount of insurance and the expiration dates of all policies
carried by the Ambulance Service. Each certificate of insurance shall name all
jurisdictions in the regulated service area as an additional named insured and
shall contain a statement by the insurer issuing the certificate that the
policies of insurance listed thereon will not be cancelled or materially
altered by the said insurer absent sixty (60) days written notice received by
all Jurisdictions.
   D.   Self-insurance programs must meet and comply with all applicable laws
and regulations; be reasonable and limited to an amount of potential fiscal
liability, which would; if realized, not impair the operations contractor's
ability to perform under the contract, and offer coverage to that required in
Sec. A through C above.
Sec. 18-108. Specialized Mobile Intensive Care Certification.
Any hospital shall be eligible to apply to the Medical Control Board for a
certification to operate a specialized mobile intensive care unit, which unit
shall be used solely for inter-hospital transport of patients requiring
specialized enroute medical monitoring and advanced life support, which exceed
the capabilities of the equipment and personnel on board a paramedic ambulance.
Such certification shall be subject to review every two years. Failure by the
holder of such certification to limit the vehicle to inter-hospital transports
of the types of patients specified within the certification shall constitute
grounds for revocation of the certification.
Sec. 18-109. Clinician Quality of Ambulance Services.
Every ambulance responding to a Code 1, 2, 3, or 4 call at any location within
the Regulated Service Area shall be equipped, staffed, and licensed to operate
at the EMT-Paramedic level.
Sec. 18-110. Ambulance Response Time Performance Required.
(A)   EMSA's Operations Contractor shall employ sufficient personnel, acquire
sufficient equipment, and manage its resources as necessary to achieve the
following response time standards on all emergency and routine transports
originating within the Regulated Service Area.
   1.   Response Time Standards for the Non-Beneficiary Member Jurisdictions of
the Western Division (except the City of Edmond): On the effective date of this
Code, subject only to the exemptions set forth in Section 110, Subsection (b),
below, the following standards of response time reliability shall be applicable
to all patient transports originating within a Non-Beneficiary Member
Jurisdiction in the Western Division (except the City of Edmond):
 
                          75%-minimum during each month in each individual Non-
                          Beneficiary Member Jurisdiction (except the City of
                          Edmond) for Priority 1 and Priority 2 transports
Priority 1 and 2 Standard combined, and a 90% minimum during each month for
                          combined Priority 1 and Priority 2 transports within
                          the combined Non-Beneficiary Jurisdiction (except the
                          City of Edmond)
Priority 3 Standard       90% reliability or better during each month
Priority 4 Standard       90% reliability or better during each month
 
Response Time Standards for the non-beneficiary member jurisdictions of the
eastern division. On the effective date of this Code, subject only to the
exemptions set forth in Sec. 111, Subsection (b) below, the following standards
of response time reliability shall be applicable to all patient transports
originating within the non-beneficiary member jurisdiction in the Eastern
Division:
 
                          75% minimum during each month in each Individual non-
                          beneficiary member jurisdiction priority 1 and
Priority 1 and 2 standard priority 2 transports combined, and a 90% minimum
                          during each month for combined priority 1 and 2
                          transports within the combined non- beneficiary
                          jurisdictions.
Priority 3 standard       90% reliability or better during each month
Priority 4 standard       90% reliability or better during each month
 
(a). Three sub-areas will be defined by EMSA in the area comprising the Eastern
Division beneficiary jurisdiction and three in the combined beneficiary and
non-beneficiary jurisdictions of the Western Division for compliance
measurement for priority 1 transports. The operations contractor shall use best
efforts to ensure response time equity for priority 1 transports among the sub-
areas, keeping response times in each sub-area within 15% of the compliance
required for the entire jurisdiction. Variations of more than 15% from the
jurisdiction standards within the same sub-area for more than three consecutive
months, or more than 6 months during any 12-month period, shall be considered
chronic response time discrimination. Provided, however, that in the event the
volume of priority 1 transports in any sub-area during any month is less than
100, sufficient additional priority 1 transports shall be added from the sub-
area, in sequential order from one or more months immediately preceding, to
that month's sub-area statistics so that the total volume of priority 1
transports included in the calculation is 100.
(b) Response time exceptions. The operations contractor shall maintain
mechanisms for reserve production capacity to increase production should a
temporary system overload persist. However, it is understood that from time-to-
time unusual factors beyond the contractor's reasonable control affect the
achievement of specified response time standards. These unusual factors are
limited to unusually severe weather conditions, declared disasters, or period
of unusually high demand for emergency services. High demand is defined as
those periods when 14 or more emergency responses within the beneficiary
jurisdiction are in progress simultaneously. Equipment failure, traffic
congestion, ambulance failure, dispatch error or other causes shall not be
grounds for granting an exception to compliance with the response time
standard.
Sec. 18-111. Prohibition against Refusal to Transport.
It shall be a violation of this Code for EMSA's operations contractor to fail
to respond to a call or to transport or to render emergency medical patient
assessment and treatment, as appropriate, or to otherwise refuse or fail to
provide any ambulance services originating within the Regulated Service Area
because of the patient's perceived, demonstrated or stated inability to pay for
such services, or because of the location of the patient within the Regulated
Service Area or because of the unavailable status or the location of any
ambulance unit at the time of the request.
Sec. 18-112. First Responder Agency Certification.
Any person or agency providing first responder services within this
jurisdiction shall be certified by the Medical Director as a first responder.
Sec. 18-113. Procedures for Denial, Revocation or Suspension of a
Certification.
For any proposed denial, suspension or revocation of a certification issued
pursuant to this uniform code for emergency medical services, the following
standards, which shall not be less than those standards contained in the Health
Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. 11112, or less than any
standards contained in applicable Oklahoma Statutes or applicable Oklahoma case
law, shall apply. Such procedures in any event, shall contain at least the
following:
A.   Written notice of the charges pending against the person or entity whose
certification may be suspended or revoked,
B.   A right to an appeal, requested in writing within thirty (30) days of any
adverse action by the Medical Director to the Medical Control Board;
C.   The right to a de novo hearing on any adverse action by the Medical
Control Board conducted by an impartial and independent hearing officer,
including a right to cross-examine witnesses, and to present witnesses and
evidence on the person's own benefit, provided such hearing is requested in
writing within thirty, (30), days.
Sec. 18-114. Violations.
A.   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to commit any of the
following acts:
   1.   To perform or permit anyone to perform duties as an ambulance driver,
attendant (EMT-Basic, EMT-D, or Paramedic), system status controller, or first
responder without a complying with the terms of this chapter, or for any EMT-
Paramedic to seek or accept medical direction by radio contact from anyone who
is not a certified base station physician, as defined herein.
   2.   To use, or cause to be used, an ambulance service other than an EMSA's
operations contractor, except for those services described in Paragraph (B) of
this Section 114.
   3.   For any person, firm or organization to respond to emergency calls
originating within the Regulated Service Area, other than EMSA's operations
contractor
   4.   For any person, firm or organization to provide special events
ambulance standby service within the regulated service area, other than EMSA's
operations contractor.
   5.    For any person, firm or organization to respond to routine transport
calls originating within the regulated service areas other than EMSA's
operations contractor.
   6.   To knowingly give false information to induce the dispatch of an
ambulance, or first responder unit.
B.   It shall not be a violation of this Code, if the vehicle or ambulance is:
   1.   A privately-owned vehicle not used in the business of transporting
patients who are sick, injured, wounded, incapacitated or helpless.
   2.   A vehicle rendering services as an ambulance in the event of a major
catastrophe or emergency when ambulances with certifications based in the
locality of the catastrophe or emergency are incapacitated or insufficient in
number to render the services needed.
   3.   An ambulance owned or operated by, or under contract with, the federal
or state government.
   4.   An ambulance transporting a patient to a location within the Regulated
Service Area, which transport originated from a point outside the Regulated
Service Area.
   5.   An ambulance responding to a call pursuant to a Mutual Aid agreement
with EMSA's operations contractor.
   6.   A vehicle engaged in a routine transport call to transport a patient
from a hospital, nursing home or free-standing dialysis center (i.e., a
dialysis center not located on hospital grounds) which is located within the
Regulated Service Area to any jurisdiction outside the Regulated Service Area
(the "receiving jurisdiction"), if the receiving jurisdiction allows EMSA's
operations contractor to lawfully engage in routine transport calls to
transport patients from hospitals, nursing homes, and free-standing dialysis
centers located within that receiving jurisdiction to destinations within the
Regulated Service Area.
   7.   A vehicle engaged in a routine transport call to transport a patient
from a hospital, nursing home, or freestanding dialysis center located within
the Regulated Service Area to any unincorporated area.
   8.   A vehicle engaged in a routine transport call to transport a patient
from a hospital, nursing home, or freestanding dialysis center located in
either the Eastern or Western Division of the Regulated Service Area, to a
destination in the other division of the Regulated Service Area.
   9.   A vehicle engaged in the interstate transport of a patient.
Sec. 18-115. Penalties.
A.   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Code shall
be guilty of a Class A Offense and punished by fine and costs not to exceed the
sum of $500 and/or imprisonment for a period of not more than 6 months.
B.   Each day that any violation of the provisions of this Code is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
Sec. 18-116. Quality Assurance Fee.
   EMSA shall pay a monthly medical quality assurance fee, as determine by the
Medical Control Board, and approved by the beneficiary member jurisdictions.
The monthly fee shall be equal to one-twelfth of the annual EPF budget approved
by the beneficiary jurisdictions. The fee may be recalculated every July using
the same formula. Such fee shall be paid to the quality assurance fund of the
Medical Control Board. The fee shall be paid during each calendar month within
thirty [30] days after the end of the month.
Sec. 18-117. Ambulance Fee.
   1.   Finding of Fact. The City of The Village makes the following findings
of fact:
   a.   Ambulance service has been provided to citizens of The Village by EMSA
since November 2003.
   b.   EMSA's service to the City of The Village has been provided free of
cost to the City.
   c.   EMSA has notified the City of The Village that its service is losing
money and the service will require the payment of a subsidy to continue
providing service to The Village.
   d.   The City of The Village has determined that contracting for ambulance
services, and continuing its contract with EMSA, is the most cost-effective
means of providing emergency medical services to the citizens of The Village.
   2.   Service Charge: The service charge shall mean the fee levied within the
corporate limits of the City for providing the ambulance service program. The
fee shall be levied on each (1) residential occupancy meaning each property
designed and used primarily and principally as a residential single-family
dwelling, duplex, or apartment unit, and (2) each commercial occupancy meaning
any property designed and used primarily and principally for an individual
business. The tenant or owner, whether a person, firm, or corporation, of any
residential or commercial property shall be liable for the payment of the
service charge.
   3.   Rate Schedule. The monthly service charge shall be established by
Resolution of the City Council.
   4.   Collection of Service Charge. The service charge herein established by
the City for the ambulance service shall be billed to each residential and
commercial utility account as an additional itemized amount on the City's
regular utility bill for sanitation and sewer services.
   5.   Late Fees: An additional fee in the amount of ten (10%) percent of the
outstanding balance shall be added to the amount due for ambulance services if
said charges are not paid by the day of the month on which payment is due.
   6.   Termination: The billing clerk is hereby authorized to terminate
garbage and sewer services for non-payment of the ambulance service fee. In
addition to termination of services, the City of The Village reserves the right
to pursue any and all remedies under the laws of the state of Oklahoma.
   7.   Penalty: Failure to pay the service charge as provided in this section
shall be a Class B Offense punishable by a fine of $200.00.
(Ord. No. 393, 2, 07-06-2004)
Sec. 18-118. Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Code
is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Code.
(Ord. No. 393, 2, 07-06-2004)
Sec. 18-119. Repealer.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 393, 2, 07-06-2004)
Sec. 18-120. Emergency Clause.
An emergency is hereby deemed and declared to exist whereby it is necessary for
the preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants
of the City of The Village that this Ordinance take effect immediately from and
after its approval.
(Ord. No. 393, 2, 07-06-2004)
CHAPTER 19
POLICE
Art. I.   In General, §§ 19.1--19-20
Art. II.   Stolen or Unclaimed Property, §§ 19-21--19-23
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 19-1--19-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY
Sec. 19-21. Police record.
(a)   All personal property which has been found, stolen, or taken from the
possession of any prisoner or person suspected of or charged with a crime which
comes into the possession of any police officer and is not known to belong to
some person laying claim thereto shall be delivered to the chief of police by
the police officer who came into possession of the personal property. The chief
of police shall make record in a record book to identify the property with the
date and the circumstances and the receipt thereof, the name of the person from
whom it was taken, and the place where it was found.
(b)   The personal property record provided for in this section shall disclose
the subsequent disposal thereof, giving the date of sale, name and address of
the purchaser and the amount for which it was sold; or the date of delivery to
a city department, the name of the department and the name of the supervisor of
the department; or the date, place and method of its destruction and the name
of two (2) officers witnessing the destruction; or the date of the delivery to
the next of kin or legally appointed representative of a deceased person, and
the name and address of the next of kin or legal representative.
(Ord. No. 298-A, §§ 3, 4, 8-3-82)
Cross references--Private security officers, § 11-201 et seq. Offenses against
public authority, §
12-16 et seq.; Motor vehicles and traffic,
Ch. 13.
State law reference--Police department generally, 11 O.S. § 34-101 et seq.
Cross reference--Stolen vehicles, § 15-39.
Sec. 19-22. Disposition.
(a)   The chief of police is authorized to dispose of personal property or
legal tender as provided by 11 O.S. §34-104, as amended.
(b)   Any unclaimed personal property, other than animals, which has remained
in the possession of the chief of police for a period of ninety (90) days and
is in the nature of contraband, or is property which would constitute a health
hazard if stored for a long period, or is an unsafe or illegal weapon or is a
partially filled container of liquor or beer, or cannot be sold, or cannot be
used by any department of the city, or is of trivial value in the opinion of
the chief of police, shall be destroyed on order of the chief of police. The
destruction of any personal property under the provisions of this section shall
be witnessed by at least two (2) members of the city police department and
these witnesses must sign a certificate of destruction which shall list all
property destroyed, a general description of same, the date, time, place, and
manner of destruction.
(c)   The personal property of a deceased person shall be delivered only to the
next of kin of such person or to the legally appointed representative of his
estate. If the personal property is claimed by the legally appointed
representative of the estate of the deceased, a certified copy of the order of
the district court appointing such person shall be deemed sufficient authority
to support the claim. If the personal property is claimed by the next of kin,
the claimant shall furnish an affidavit to the effect that he is the person
entitled to possession of said property; the affidavit shall be deemed
sufficient authority to support the claim. If personal property of a deceased
person remains unclaimed for a period of ninety (90) days, it shall be disposed
of in the appropriate manner provided in this section.
(Ord. No. 298-A, §6, 8-3-82; Ord. No. 556, 7-18-00)
Sec. 19-23. Retention of records.
Unless otherwise specified, all records of property under this article shall
remain on file for a period of five (5) years.
(Ord. No. 298-A, §6, 8-3-82)
CHAPTER 20
SIGNS
ARTICLE I. GENERALLY
Sec. 20-1. Intent.
Standards for use, placement, size, and design of signs are intended to:
o   Protect the public from signs that are poorly designed, constructed or
maintained, and signs that are dangerously distracting to pedestrians and
motorists by their message delivery and placement;
o   Preserve and enhance property values; create a more attractive business
climate, increase the quality of life for residents, and protect the unique
character of the city's built and natural environment, by curbing visual
pollution resulting from excessive signs;
o   Contribute to a built environment that will differentiate The Village from
adjacent municipalities, and reinforce the city's identity and desired
character;
o   Protect residential areas adjoining non-residential areas from adverse
visual impacts of nearby signs;
o   Reduce clutter, confusion and visual pollution caused by sign
oversaturation, and visual blight from poorly designed and maintained signs,
and thus increase sign legibility and effectiveness;
o   Protect public health, safety, and welfare.
Sec. 20-2. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
indicates a different meaning:
o   Abandoned sign: A sign which has not identified or advertised a current
business, service, owner, product, or activity for a period of at least 360
days.
o   Alteration: A change in the size or shape of an existing sign. Copy or
color change of an existing sign is not an alteration. Changing or replacing a
sign face or panel is not an alteration.
o   Architectural feature: a three-dimensional design element of a building,
such as cornices, balconies, eaves, door, window, wing wall, etc., that lends
to the building's overall exterior form, context, and appearance.
o   Attached sign: A sign that is applied or affixed to a building; examples
include wall signs, projecting signs, awning signs, canopy signs, and mural
signs.
o   Awning: A cloth, plastic, or other nonstructural covering that project from
a wall for the purpose of shielding a doorway or window. An awning is either
permanently attached to a building or can be raised or retracted to a position
against the building when not in use.
o   Awning Sign: Any sign painted on, or applied to, an awning.
o   Banner: Any cloth, bunting, plastic, paper, or similar non-rigid material
attached to any structure, staff, pole, rope, wire, or framing which is
anchored on two or more edges, one curved edge (for surfboard-style banners),
or at all four corners. Banners are temporary in nature and do not include
flags.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2865.png]
 
Surfboard-style banners
o   Canopy: A structure other than an awning made of fabric, metal, or other
material that is supported by columns or posts affixed to the ground and may
also be connected to a building.
o   Canopy Sign: Any sign that is part of or attached to a canopy.
o   Channel letters: Fabricated or formed three-dimensional letters,
individually applied to a wall, which may accommodate a light source.
o   Commercial: Land use, except that of residential or institutional. For
purposes of this Chapter, includes industrial land uses.
o   Directional sign: Signs designed to provide direction to pedestrian and
vehicular traffic into and out of, or within a site.
o   Façade: That portion of any exterior elevation of:
o   A building extending vertically from grade to the top of a parapet wall or
eaves and horizontally across the entire width of the building elevation; or
o   A canopy extending vertically from the lowest point of the canopy, not
including support structures, to the top of canopy and horizontally across the
entire width of the canopy elevation.
o   Foot-candle: A unit of incident light (on a surface) stated in lumens per
square foot and measurable with an illuminance meter. (Also known as foot-
candle or light meter.) One (1) foot-candle is equal to one (1) lumen per
square foot.
o   Freestanding sign: A sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on, or anchored in, the ground; and that is independent and detached
from any building or other structure.
o   Illumination: A source of any artificial or reflected light, either
directly from a source of light incorporated in, or indirectly from an
artificial source.
o   Institutional: Land use that serves a community's civic, social,
educational, health, cultural, religious, and recreational needs.
o   Mural (or mural sign): A large picture/image (including but not limited to
painted art) which is painted, constructed, or affixed directly onto a vertical
building wall, which may or may not contain text, logos, and/or symbols.
o   Off-premises sign: An outdoor sign whose message directs attention to a
specific business, product, service, event, or activity, or other commercial or
noncommercial activity, or contains a non-commercial message about something
that is not sold, produced, manufactured, furnished, or conducted on the
premises upon which the sign is located. (Also known as a billboard.)
o   Permanent sign: A sign attached or affixed to a building, window, or
structure, or to the ground in a manner that enables the sign to resist
environmental loads, such as wind, and that precludes ready removal or movement
of the sign and whose intended use appears to be indefinite.
o   Portable sign: A sign designed to be transported or moved and not
permanently attached to the ground, a building, or other structure.
o   Projecting sign: A building-mounted, double-sided sign with the two faces
generally perpendicular to the building wall, not to include signs located on a
canopy, awning, or marquee. (Also known as blade sign.)
o   Residential: Land use exclusively for human housing or dwelling.
o   Scoreboard: A sign contained within an athletic venue and intended solely
to provide information to the attendees of an athletic event.
o   Sign: Any device, structure, fixture, painting, emblem, or visual that uses
words, graphics, colors, illumination, symbols, numbers, or letters for the
purpose of communicating a message. Sign includes the sign faces as well as any
sign supporting structure.
o   Sign area: The total dimensions of a sign surface used to display
information, messages, advertising, logos, or symbols.
o   The area of a geometric shape enclosing any message, logo, symbol, name,
photograph, or display face shall be measured using standard mathematical
formulas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2867.png]
 
Sign area measurements.
o   Supporting framework or bracing that is clearly incidental to the display
itself is not included in calculations of sign area.
o   The sign area of multiple-face signs shall be the maximum projection on a
vertical plane.
o   The area of wall signs are only that portion of the wall onto which the
sign face or letters are placed.
o   Sign face: The part of the sign that is or can be used for the sign area.
The sign area could be smaller than the sign face.
o   Sign height: The vertical dimension of a sign, as measured from the highest
point of a sign to the ground surface beneath it. When berms are used in
conjunction with signage, the height of the sign shall be measured from the
mean elevation of the fronting street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2869.png]
 
Sign measurement details.
o   Sign supporting structure: Poles, posts, walls, frames, brackets, or other
supports holding a sign in place or covering such supports.
o   Snipe Sign: A sign tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued, or otherwise
attached to trees, poles, stakes, fences, public benches, streetlights, or
other objects located on public property or in the public right-of-way (except
for yard signs) or on any private property without the permission of the
property owner. (Also known as bandit sign.)
o   Street frontage: The side or sides of a lot abutting on a public street or
right-of-way.
o   Temporary sign: A type of non-permanent, sign that is located on private
property (or, for yard signs, certain portions of public right-of-way) that can
be displayed for no more than the periods described in Section
20-27.
o   Wall sign: A building-mounted sign, which is either attached to, displayed
on, or painted on an exterior wall in a manner parallel with the wall surface.
A sign installed on a false or mansard roof is also considered a wall sign.
(Also known as: fascia sign, parallel wall sign, or band sign.)
o   Window sign: Any sign that is applied, painted, or affixed to a window, or
placed inside a window, within three (3) feet of the glass, facing the outside
of the building, and easily seen from the outside. Customary displays of
merchandise or objects and material without lettering behind a store window are
not considered signs. Measurement of sign area for window signs includes only
portions of the sign that are opaque.
o   Yard sign: a temporary sign that is not permanently affixed or attached to
the ground or another structure, which can be removed without special handling,
and which can be placed on a street-facing lawn or elsewhere on a property by
means of stakes or posts.
o   Yard sign, rigid: a temporary sign that is not permanently affixed or
attached to the ground or other structure, but which is constructed of rigid
materials and requires special handling for removal, which can be placed on a
street-facing lawn or elsewhere on a property by means of wood or metal posts.
Sec. 20-3. Nonconforming Signs; Vested Rights.
   (a)   Permanent signs that were in compliance with applicable sign
regulations at the of their permitting may continue to exist. Permanent signs
and sign structures that are moved, removed, replaced, or structurally altered
must be brought into conformance with current sign regulations. However,
nonconforming signs required to be moved because of public right-of-way
improvements may be re-established. Simply removing and replacing text or copy
on nonconforming sign does not constitute a structural alteration nor trigger
loss of nonconforming status.
   (b)   Once a sign is altered to conform or is replaced with a conforming
sign, the nonconforming rights for that sign are lost and a nonconforming sign
may not be re-established.
   (c)   Abandoned signs lose their status as nonconforming signs and must be
brought into compliance with this Chapter.
   (d)   Signs or sign structures that are removed or destroyed must be
replaced by signs complying with this Chapter; provided, however, that signs
that are (1) temporarily removed or partially destroyed for a period of five
(5) days or less to perform maintenance or repairs, or (2) partially destroyed
or damaged by casualty, may be rebuilt to the same size and height using the
same materials as were in place prior to the removal or destruction.
   (e)   Vested Rights. New signs for businesses that will occupy structures
built under building permits approved by the City within the ninety (90) days
prior to November 7, 2016, shall be vested under the sign regulations in place
on November 6, 2016, for a period of one (1) year. On and after November 7,
2017, no nonconforming signs may be structurally altered, added to, enlarged in
any manner, or moved in whole or in part to another location unless the sign is
brought into compliance with and issued a new sign permit in accordance with
this Chapter.
Sec. 20-4. Permits and Administration.
   (a)   Sign Permit Required. A sign permit shall be required in order to
erect, move, alter, reconstruct, or repair any permanent or temporary sign,
except signs that are exempt from permits in compliance with Section 20-5. For
multiple-tenant buildings, a separate permit shall be required for each
business entity's sign(s). Changing or replacing the copy on an existing lawful
sign shall require a permit, but no associated fee shall be assessed against
such permits, provided the copy change does not alter the size, shape, or area
of the sign, or render the sign in violation of this Chapter.
   (b)   Sign Permit Application Requirements. Applications for sign permits
shall be made in writing on forms furnished by City staff. Applications shall
include:
o   The location by street number and the legal description of the property
where the proposed sign structure will be placed;
o   Names and address of the owner, sign contractor, and erectors;
o   Legible site plans (minimum scale of 1" = 50') that include the specific
location of the sign and setbacks to adjacent property lines, buildings, and
other signs;
o   A detailed drawing indicating the dimensions, materials, colors, and
attachment methods of the proposed sign structure;
o   A graphic drawing or photograph of the sign copy;
o   A depiction of the type, intensity, location, and shielding of any lighting
to be used, if applicable;
o   For proposed signs having facia that exceeds sixteen (16) square feet, a
certification by a structural engineer as to structural qualities;
o   For proposed freestanding and wall signs, proof of public liability
insurance covering the proposed signs; and
o   A sign permit fee in an amount established by resolution of the City
Council.
   (c)   Sign Permit Review Criteria. City staff will use the following review
criteria to evaluate all sign permit applications:
o   Sign meets the requirements of this Chapter;
o   Sign conforms to the requirements of the building and electrical code;
o   Sign conforms to the requirements of the zoning district in which it is
located;
o   Sign would not interfere with pedestrian or vehicular safety;
o   Sign would not deter from the character of an architecturally significant
structure;
o   Sign would not be located so as to have a negative impact on adjacent
property;
o   Sign would not detract from the pedestrian quality of a street or area; and
o   Sign would not add to an over-proliferation of signs on a particular
property or area.
   (d)   Any appeal of City staff's denial of a sign permit shall be made to
the City Council.
Section 20-5. Exempt Signs.
The following types of signs are exempt from the permit requirements of this
Chapter and are permitted in all zoning districts, provided that such signs
shall otherwise conform to all applicable requirements contained in this
Chapter:
   (a)   Signs that are not visible beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel
upon which they are located and/or from any public thoroughfare or right-of-
way, provided that such signs shall be subject to the safety regulations of the
building and electrical codes.
   (b)   Addresses. Nonilluminated signs not exceeding two (2) square feet in
area that identify the address of a dwelling unit or nonresidential
establishment.
   (c)   Art. Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings and
works of art, provided such features or works do not contain letters,
trademarks, moving parts, or lights.
   (d)   Building Identification; Historic Markers. Nonilluminated signs
constructed of metal or masonry materials that are permanently affixed to
buildings or structures for purpose of identifying the name of a building, date
or erection, or other historic information.
   (e)   Bulletin Boards. Bulletin boards not exceeding fifteen (15) square
feet in gross surface area that is accessory to the primary use of a building.
   (f)   Construction. Temporary construction signs at active construction
sites.
   (g)   Courtesy. Nonilluminated or indirectly illuminated signs that identify
items such as credit cards accepted, redemption stamps offered, menus, hours of
operation, or prices, provided that only one such sign is allowed per use and
that the area of such signs do not exceed eight (8) square feet in total area.
   (h)   Decorations. Temporary decorations or displays incidental to and/or
customarily associated with any national, state, local, or religious holiday or
celebration; provided, that such decorations shall be displayed for not more
than sixty (60) days in anyone (1) year.
   (i)   Directional. On premise, directional and instructional signs not
exceeding six (6) square feet in area.
   (j)   Flags. Flags, crests, or banners flown under generally accepted flag
protocol on a flagpole or building-mounted staff no taller than the maximum
permitted building height in the appropriate underlying zoning district.
   (k)   Garage Sales. Signs for residential garage or estate sales subject to
the restrictions in Article XII of Chapter 11 of The Village City Code.
   (l)   Hazards. Temporary or permanent signs erected by the City, public
utility companies, oil and gas companies, or construction companies to warn of
dangers of hazardous conditions, including presents of underground cables, gas
lines, or similar devices.
   (m)   Scoreboards. Scoreboards at athletic fields.
   (n)   Traffic Control. Signs for the control of traffic or other regulatory
purposes.
   (o)   Vehicular Signs. Signs displayed on trucks, buses, trailers, or other
vehicles that are being operated or stored in the normal course of a business.
Sec. 20-6. Illegal Signs.
   (a)   Penalties. Illegal signs shall be subject to the administrative and/or
criminal remedies as laid out in Section
1-9 the City Code.
   (b)   Removal of illegal signs in the public right-of-way. The City may
cause the removal of any sign within the public right-of-way or on property
that is otherwise abandoned that has been placed there without first complying
with the requirements of this Chapter.
   (c)   Storage of removed signs. Signs removed in compliance with this
Section shall be stored by the City for thirty (30) days, during which they may
be recovered by the owner only upon payment to the City for costs of removal
and storage. If not recovered within the thirty (30) day period, the sign and
supporting structure shall be declared abandoned and title shall vest with the
City.
Sec. 20-7-20-9. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. PERMITTED SIGNS
Sec. 20-10. Permitted signs.
The following signs are permitted on lots hosting the listed land uses, and no
others:
Land Use*** Sign Type Number Permitted
Land Use***               Sign Type                  Number Permitted
                                    Freestanding     No more than one (1) per
                          Permanent                  street frontage
                                    Attached         N/A*
Institutional                       Window           N/A*
                                    Banner           No more than two (2) per
                          Temporary                  institutional user**
                                    Yard             No more than four (4) per
                                                     institutional user**
                          Permanent Freestanding     No more than two (2) at
                                                     each subdivision entrance
Single-Family Residential           Yard (non-rigid) No more than two (2) on a
                          Temporary                  residential lot
                                    Yard (rigid)     N/A**
                                    Freestanding     No more than two (2) per
                          Permanent                  street frontage
                                    Attached         N/A*
Multi-Family Residential            Banner           No more than one (1) per
                          Temporary                  street frontage
                                    Yard             No more than two (2) per
                                                     street frontage
                                    Freestanding     No more than one (1) per
                          Permanent                  street frontage
                                    Attached         N/A*
                                    Window           N/A*
Single-Tenant Commercial            Banner           No more than two (2) per
                                                     tenant**
                          Temporary Yard             No more than two (2) per
                                                     tenant**
                                    Rigid Yard       No more than two (2) on a
                                                     commercial lot**
                                    Freestanding     No more than two (2) per
                          Permanent                  street frontage
                                    Attached         N/A*
                                    Window           N/A*
Multi-Tenant Commercial             Banner           No more than two (2) per
                                                     tenant**
                          Temporary Yard             No more than two (2) per
                                                     tenant**
                                    Rigid Yard       No more than two (2) on a
                                                     commercial lot**
 
* These signs are still subject to the area restrictions in Section
20-21.
** These signs are subject to the time display restrictions in Section
20-27.
*** The permitted signs shall be classified by the actual land use of a given
parcel, not the underlying zoning district.
Sec. 20-11. Prohibited Signs.
The following signs are prohibited in all districts, unless noted:
o   Off premise signs, including billboards, except for directional kiosk signs
erected by the City of The Village;
o   Signs placed in or over the public right-of-way or public property. The
city may remove signs in the public right-of-way or on public property;
o   Signs placed on vehicles and trailers that are parked and not being used or
in the ordinary course of business;
o   Signs and posters placed on trees, fences, streetlight poles and utility
poles;
o   Banners, pennants, balloons, streamers, and other temporary signs, except
on a temporary basis as permitted in Sections
20-10,
20-21, and
20-27;
o   Attached signs placed on a roof or above a parapet wall of a building;
o   Prefabricated, rigid awning signs;
o   Freestanding signs placed where they might obscure a clear view of traffic
on intersecting streets or traffic warning and control signals and signs on
adjacent streets;
o   Signs that closely resemble or imitate official signs and traffic control
devices;
o   Signs blocking doors, windows, vents, stairs, and ramps;
o   Signs built and displayed without a sign permit if a sign permit is
required;
o   Signs built from materials usually used for and designs typically used in
temporary signs (thin cloth, thin plastic, corrugated plastic, etc., not
designed as or attached to a permanent fixture or frame to a building)
displayed as permanent signs, except for no more than 30 days or less in place
of a damaged, removed, or permitted but unbuilt signs;
o   Portable signs, including signs originally built as portable signs
permanently mounted on a building or the ground, except for yard signs and
rigid yard signs;
o   Snipe signs;
o   Large objects such as motor vehicles, boats, aircraft, engine blocks, home
appliances, heavy equipment, industrial machinery, and similar objects used as
or included in signs; and
o   Signs not expressly permitted in this Chapter or elsewhere in this code.
Sec. 20-12-20-19. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. SIGN DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE
Sec. 20-20. Design Compatibility.
   (a)   Creative Design Encouraged. Signs shall make a positive contribution
to the general appearance of the street and commercial area in which they are
located. A well-designed sign can be a major asset to a building. The City
encourages imaginative and innovative sign design. The creative sign
application procedure (see Article IV) is specifically designed for artistic
and unusual signs that might not fit the standard sign regulations and
categories.
   (b)   Professional. Signs shall be made by a professional sign company or
other qualified entity.
Sec. 20-21. Size and Scale.
The scale of signs shall be appropriate for the building on which they are
placed and the area in which they are located. Attached signs shall be
harmonious in scale and proportion with the building facade they are mounted
to. Freestanding signs shall be proportional to the speeds of the adjacent
street. To satisfy these aims, the size and scale of each sign shall be as
follows:
   (a)   Freestanding Signs.
 
Adjacent Street Speed Maximum Area                   Maximum Height
                      Base           0 Per Tenant
 30 mph              30 square feet 0 2 square feet 10 feet
 35 mph              40 square feet 0 2 square feet 15 feet
 40 mph              50 square feet 0 2 square feet 20 feet
 45 mph              65 square feet 0 2 square feet 20 feet
 
* Freestanding temporary banners are subject to different standards. See
paragraph (f) of this Section.
   (b)   Attached Signs.
 
Building  Maximum Area
Setback
 100     15% of building or canopy elevation façade for all signs; individual tenant
  feet    signs no longer than 80% of length of tenant space
101–300 20% of building or canopy elevation façade for all signs; individual tenant
feet      signs no longer than 80% of length of tenant space
 301     25% of building or canopy elevation façade for all signs; individual tenant
  feet    signs no longer than 80% of length of tenant space
 
   (c)   Projecting Signs.
 
Maximum Area  Maximum Projection Minimum Height
8 square feet 6 feet from wall   8 feet above finished grade
 
   (d)   Window Signs.
 
Maximum Area
100% of the area of the window on which located.
 
   (e)   Yard Signs and Rigid Yard Signs.
 
Sign Setback                           Maximum Area  Maximum Height
< 5 feet (including in right-of-way) * 6 square feet 2 feet
 5 feet (non-rigid yard signs)        9 square feet 4 feet
 5 feet (rigid yard signs)            9 square feet 4 feet
 
* See Sec.
20-22(f).
   (f)   Banners.
 
Type         Maximum Area                     Maximum Height
Freestanding 32 square feet                   10 feet
Attached     20% of building elevation facade Below roofline
 
Sec. 20-22. Location and Placement.
   (a)   Visibility. Signs shall not visually overpower nor obscure
architectural features.
   (b)   Integrate Signs with the Building and Landscaping. Carefully
coordinate the sign with the architectural design, overall color scheme, and
landscaping. Signs shall be designed to complement and enhance the other signs
for a building.
   (c)   Unified Sign Band. Whenever possible, signs located on buildings with
the same block face shall be placed at the same height in order to create a
unified sign band. Locate attached signs at the first-floor level only.
   (d)   Attached Signs. Attached signs shall not overlap cornices, eaves,
windows, door frames, columns, or other decorative features on a building
façade, and must be located at least three (3) feet from the vertical edge of a
wall or other attached signs.
   (e)   Freestanding Signs. Freestanding signs shall be located in a planter
setting within a landscaped area that is at least double the size of area of
the sign face and shall be placed at least one hundred fifty (150) feet from
other freestanding signs in the same development site.
   Example--A shopping center on May Avenue (40 mph speed limit) that has 8
tenants may have two 15-feet high, 66-square-feet signs (50 sq. ft. base + 2
sq. ft. per tenant x 8 tenants), provided the two signs can be placed at least
150 feet from each other, and each sign must be located within a landscaped
area at least 132 square feet in size.
   (f)   Yard Signs. Yard signs (but not rigid yard signs) may be placed on the
right-of-way immediately adjacent to residential property that is zoned for and
in use for a residential purpose, provided that such signs are set back at
least four (4) feet from the edge of the street.
   (g)   Pedestrian-Oriented Signs. Pedestrian-oriented signs are encouraged.
It is desirable to include a pedestrian-oriented sign as one of the permitted
signs for a business. These signs are designed for and directed toward
pedestrians so they can easily and comfortably read the sign as they stand
adjacent to the business.
   (h)   Road Right-of-Way. No sign shall be erected within the road right-of-
way except as allowed in paragraph (f) of this Section, or near the
intersection of any road(s) or driveways in such a manner as to obstruct free
and clear vision of motorists or pedestrians or at any location where, by
reason of the position, shape or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the
view of, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
Signs located at an intersection must be outside of the sight distance triangle
prescribed in Sec. 25-15(d).
Sec. 20-23. Landscaping.
Freestanding signs shall be landscaped at their base in a way harmonious with
the landscape concept for the while site. Landscaping shall form an attractive,
dense cluster at the base of the sign that is equally attractive in winter and
summer.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/          [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/  a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2691.gif]                      IMAGES/0-0-0-2693.gif]
NOT THIS Landscaping too sparse and poor   THIS Berm, foundation, plantings to
visual base for sign                        relate to building treatment
 
Sec. 20-24. Color.
   (a)   Compatibility and Complementary Colors. Colors shall be selected to
contribute to legibility and design integrity. Sign colors shall complement the
colors used on the structures and the project as a whole. Colors or
combinations of colors that are harsh and disrupt the visual harmony and order
of the street are unacceptable.
   (b)   Contrasting Colors. The material of the background and the letters or
symbols used in the sign face shall have substantially contrasting colors to
make the sign easier to read during both the day and night. Light letters on a
dark background or dark letters on a light background are most legible.
   (c)   Too Many Colors. Colors or color combinations that interfere with
legibility of the sign copy or that interfere with viewer identification of
other signs shall be avoided.
Sec. 20-25. Materials.
(a)   Sign materials shall be compatible and complementary with the materials
used in the building façade.
(b)   Permanent signs shall be constructed of the following durable, high
quality architectural materials:
o   Treated wood
o   Painted metal
o   Stone
o   Brick
o   Stucco
o   As an accent material only (no more than 40% of exterior cladding):
o   Exterior Insulation Finishing System (EIFS) with Drainage
o   For channel lettering only:
o   Acrylic
o   Polycarbonate
o   For permanent awning signs only:
o   Fire-resistant, waterproof, stain- and mildew-resistant, solution-dyed
fabric with a finish weight of at least 9 ounces per square yard.
   (a)   Permanent freestanding signs shall have constructed support bases that
are in aggregate as wide or wider than forty percent (40%) of the width of the
widest part of the sign face.
   (b)   Internally illuminated box signs are prohibited.
   (c)   Rigid yard signs and non-rigid yard signs on commercial lots shall be
constructed of treated wood and/or painted metal.
Sec. 20-26. Illumination.
   (a)   Use illumination only if necessary.
   (b)   Sign illumination shall complement, not overpower, the overall
composition of the site.
Use of Existing Illumination
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2871.png]
 
   (c)   Use a Direct Light Source. All lighted signs shall have their lighting
directed in such a manner as to illuminate only the face of the sign. When
external light sources are directed at the sign surface, the light source must
be concealed from pedestrians' and motorists' lines of sight.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2873.png]
 
External light sources directed at signs should be concealed from pedestrians'
and motorists' lines of sight.
   (d)   Signs must be illuminated in a way that does not cause glare onto the
street and adjacent properties. Vegetation shall not be employed as the primary
means of controlling glare. The measure of illumination from any sign shall not
exceed 0.2 foot-candles at the property boundary for the site where the sign is
located.
   (e)   Electronic message signs are governed by Article V of this Chapter.
Flashing, moving, blinking, chasing or other animation effects shall be
prohibited on all signs except as allowed pursuant to Article V.
   (f)   Neon tubing is an acceptable method of sign illumination for window
signs.
   (g)   Illumination sources shall be static in color and intensity.
Sec. 20-27. Display Timing of Temporary Signs.
   (a)   Yard Signs may be displayed up to four (4) times per year, with a time
of no more than thirty (30) days for each display.
   (b)   Banners may be displayed up to six (6) times per year, with a time of
no more than fourteen (14) days for each display.
   (c)   Rigid yard signs may be displayed no more than 360 days for each
display.
Sec. 20-28. Installation.
   (a)   All signs shall be mounted so that the method of installation is
concealed.
   (b)   Projecting signs shall be mounted so they generally align with others
in the block.
   (c)   All signs and all components thereof, including sign structures and
sign faces, shall be kept neatly painted, in a good state of repair and in
compliance with all building and electrical codes. The City may inspect any
sign governed by this Chapter and shall have the authority to order the
painting, repair, alteration, or removal of a sign which constitutes a hazard
to safety, health, or public welfare by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, or obsolescence.
   (d)   All signs permitted under this chapter must be constructed as to
withstand wind velocities of at least one hundred (100) miles per hour and any
other requirement made by the city engineer based on sound engineering
practices.
Sec. 20-29. Maintenance.
   (a)   The owner of a sign and the owner of the premises on which such sign
is located shall be jointly and severally liable to maintain such sign,
including any illumination sources in neat and orderly condition, and in a good
working order at all times, and to prevent the development of any rust,
corrosion, rotting or other deterioration in the physical appearance or safety
of such sign. The sign must also be in compliance with all building and
electrical codes.
   (b)   The owner of any sign regulated by this Article shall be required to
keep signs and supporting hardware, including temporary signs and time/
temperature signs structurally safe, clean, free of visible defects, and
functioning properly at all times. Repairs to signs shall be equal to or better
in quality of materials and design than the original sign.
   (c)   The City may inspect any sign governed by this Article and shall have
the authority to order the painting, repair, alteration, or removal of a sign
which constitutes a hazard to safety, health, or public welfare by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, or obsolescence.
Sec. 20-30-20-39. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. CREATIVE SIGNS
Sec. 20-40. Purpose.
This Article establishes standards and procedures for the design, review, and
approval of creative signs. The purposes of this creative sign program are to:
o   Encourage signs of unique design, and that exhibit a high degree of
thoughtfulness, imagination, inventiveness, and spirit; and
o   Provide a process for the application of sign regulations in ways that will
allow creatively designed signs that make a positive visual contribution to the
overall image of the City, while mitigating the impacts of large or unusually
designed signs.
Sec. 20-41. Applicability.
An applicant may request approval of a sign permit under the creative sign
program to authorize on-site signs that employ standards that differ from the
other provisions of this Chapter but comply with the provisions of this
Article.
Sec. 20-42. Approval Authority.
A Sign Permit application for a creative sign shall be subject to approval by
the City Council, after having first received a recommendation from the
Planning Commission.
Sec. 20-43. Application Requirements.
A sign permit application for a creative sign shall include all information and
materials required by the City, and the filing fee based on the same fee
schedule as a building permit.
Sec. 20-44. Design Criteria.
In approving an application for a creative sign, the City Council and Planning
Commission shall ensure that a proposed sign meets the following design
criteria:
(a)   Design Quality. The sign shall:
o   Constitute a substantial aesthetic improvement to the site and shall have a
positive visual impact on the surrounding area;
o   Be of unique design, and exhibit a high degree of thoughtfulness,
imagination, inventiveness, and spirit; and
o   Provide strong graphic character through the imaginative use of graphics,
color, texture, quality materials, scale, and proportion.
(b)   Contextual Criteria. The sign shall contain at least one (1) of the
following elements:
o   Classic historic design style;
o   Creative image reflecting current or historic character of the Town/City;
o   Symbols or imagery relating to the entertainment or design industry; or
o   Inventive representation of the use, name or logo of the structure or
business.
(c)   Architectural Criteria. The sign shall:
o   Utilize and/or enhance the architectural elements of the building; and
o   Be placed in a logical location in relation to the overall composition of
the building's facade and not cover any key architectural features/details of
the facade.
Sec. 20-45-20-49. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. ELECTRONIC SIGNS
Sec. 20-50. Definitions.
For the purposes of this Article the following terms shall be defined as
follows:
o   Electronic Message Display (EMD) means a sign capable of displaying words,
symbols, figures, or images that can be electronically or mechanically changed
by remote or automatic means.
o   Dissolve means a mode of message transition on an Electronic Message
Display accomplished by varying the light intensity or pattern, where the first
message gradually appears to dissipate and lose legibility simultaneously with
the gradual appearance and legibility of the second message.
o   Fade means a mode of message transition on an Electronic Message Display
accomplished by varying the light intensity, where the first message gradually
reduces intensity to the point of not being legible and the subsequent message
gradually increases intensity to the point of legibility.
o   Frame means a complete, static display screen on an Electronic Message
Display.
o   Frame Effect means a visual effect on an Electronic Message Display applied
to a single frame to attract the attention of viewers.
o   Transition means a visual effect used on an Electronic Message Display to
change from one message to another.
o   Level l EMD means an Electronic Message Display, which displays static
messages only and which change with no transition.
o   Level 2 EMD means an Electronic Message Display, which displays static
messages, and which change with a "Fade" or "Dissolve" transition, or similar
subtle transitions and frame effects that do not have the appearance of moving
text or images.
o   Level 3 EMD means an Electronic Message Display, which display a static
message with "travel" or "scrolling" transitions, or similar transitions and
frame effects that have text or animated images that appear to move or change
in size, or be revealed sequentially rather than all at once.
o   Level 4 EMD means an Electronic Message Display, which displays with full
animation, flashing and video.
o   Scroll means a mode of message transition on an Electronic Message Display
where the message appears to move vertically across the display surface.
o   Static means having no motion; being at rest.
o   Strobe means a sign where the message or lighting flashes on and off more
often than once every second. This shall not include the use of flashing lights
in a chasing or alternating fashion around the sign perimeter.
o   Travel means a mode of message transition on an Electronic Message Display
where the message appears to move horizontally across the display surface.
Sec. 20-51. Size, Location, Height, and Use Restrictions.
Electronic Message Displays permitted by this Article:
   (a)   Shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the sign area allowed for any
use pursuant to this Chapter and provided that said EMD sign area shall not
increase the total sign area authorized for each such use in
Article III of this Chapter.
   (b)   Shall not be located closer than one hundred (100) feet from any
residence.
   (c)   Shall not be higher than six (6) feet above the highest point of the
roof of the building or structure where the sign is located.
   (d)   Shall not be used for off-premises advertising.
Sec. 20-52. Electronic Message Displays in Commercial Districts.
   (a)   Level 1, 2 and 3 EMDs. Level 1, 2, and 3 Electronic Message Displays
may be permitted in the C-2 Zoning District and shall not be subject to
operational limitations, minimum display times or message change sequences but
shall be equipped with dimming features that automatically adjust the display
brightness according to ambient light conditions.
   (b)   Level 4 EMDs. Level 4 EMDs are specifically prohibited in the C-
2 Commercial District.
Sec. 20-53. Electronic Message Displays in Residential Districts.
Level 1 and 2 Electronic Message Displays may be permitted in the A-1 Single
Family Zoning District for institutional uses, subject to the following
requirements:
   (a)   Level 1 EMD.
   (1)   Operational Limitations. Such displays shall contain static messages
only, and shall not have movement, or the appearance or optical illusion of
movement, of any part of the sign structure, design, or pictorial segment of
the sign, including the movement or appearance of movement of any illumination
or the flashing, scintillating, or varying of light intensity. The City Council
may limit the hours in which approved Level 1 EMDs may operate and/or may
require dimming as deemed necessary to reduce the illumination of nearby
residences.
   (2)   Minimum Display Time. Each message on the sign must be displayed for a
minimum of eight (8) seconds.
   (3)   Message Change Sequence. A minimum of two (2) seconds of time with no
message displayed shall be provided between each message displayed on the sign.
   (4)   Council Approval. Level 1 EMDs s in the A-1 Single Family District
shall be subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (b)   Level 2 EMD.
   (1)   Operational Limitations. Such displays shall contain static messages
only, changed only through dissolve or fade transitions, or with the use of
other subtle transitions and frame effects that do not have the appearance of
moving text or images, but which may otherwise not have movement, or the
appearance or optical illusion of movement, of any part of the sign structure,
design, or pictorial segment of the sign, including the movement of any
illumination or the flashing, scintillating or varying of light intensity. The
City Council may limit the hours in which approved Level 2 EMDs may operate
and/or may require dimming as deemed necessary to reduce the illumination of
nearby residences.
   (2)   Minimum Display Time. Each message on the sign must be displayed for a
minimum of eight (8) seconds.
   (3)   Council Approval. Level 2 EMDs in the A-1 Single Family District shall
be subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (c)   Level 3 and 4 EMDs are specifically prohibited in the A-1 Single
Family Zoning District.
Sec. 20-54. Intermittent lighting restrictions.
   (a)   No strobe or high-intensity intermittent lights shall be permitted
except where required on structures for aircraft warning lights.
   (b)   A time and temperature display within any sign shall be allowed to
change intermittently upon the appropriate change of time and temperature.
   (c)   Illuminated signs and electronic marquises placed in the interior
window or windows of any building in the C-2 Commercial District shall be
allowed to flash or scroll intermittently.
Sec. 20-55. Traffic hazards.
   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall review any complaint by the
public or a public official in reference to a possible traffic hazard caused by
any sign. He or she shall have the authority to order the removal or alteration
of any sign, when it determines that the proposed sign projects upon or in view
of any street a beam of light of sufficient intensity to confuse, annoy, or
distract motor vehicle operators or in any manner interfere with the operation
of vehicular traffic on any adjacent street.
(Ord. No. 776, § 3, 10-14-24)
CHAPTER 21
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Art. I.   In General, §§ 21-1--21-24
Art. II.   Parades, Celebrations, Etc., §§ 21-25, 21-26
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 21-1. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
"Public right-of-way" includes a public street or highway, alley, sidewalk, and
unimproved property between the paved street and property line of the adjacent
property owner.
"Vegetation" means living plant material including trees, shrubs, perennials,
grasses, turf, groundcovers, and vines.
(Ord. No. 360, §1, 11-19-85; Ord. No. 733, §1, 11-06-2017)
Sec. 21-2. Supervision.
   All maintenance and repair of public streets, alleys, sidewalks, and other
public rights-of-way shall be under the supervision of the city manager or his
designee. He shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions
relating to public places and is hereby authorized to enforce this article.
(Ord. No. 360, § 2, 11-19-85)
Sec. 21-3. Construction permits; bond.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to construct, lay any pavement, or make any
repair on or excavate in any public street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
right-of-way, without having first secured a permit, therefore. Applications
for such permits shall be made to the city clerk and shall state the location
of the intended pavement repair or work, the extent thereof, and the person who
is to do the actual construction work. No such permit shall be issued except
where the construction work to be performed shall conform to the ordinances of
the city.
Cross references--Concrete, curbing or piering, etc., contractors, §
11-31 et seq.; motor vehicles and traffic,
Ch. 13; pipelines, etc., §
16-40; fee for vacating streets, § 18-3; building numbers, § 18-36,
Ch. 25; Subdivision regulations, §§
25-18, 25-32.
State law reference--General authority relative to streets, roads, and public
ways, 11 O.S. § 36-101.
   (b)   Each applicant shall file a bond in an amount set by resolution of the
city council.
(Ord. No. 509, § 1, 9-20-94)
   (c)   The fee for any permit prescribed by this section shall be payable in
advance to the city clerk and shall be in an amount established by resolution.
   (d)   An applicant for a permit shall, before the issuance of the permit,
perform the following:
   (1)   Furnish bond or insurance in the amount of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) for death of or injury to anyone (1) person and three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for personal injuries or death arising
out of one (1) occurrence to hold the city harmless of liability arising out of
the applicant's work in the public right-of-way;
   (2)   Demonstrate that the applicant is not delinquent in payments due to
the city on prior similar work;
   (3)   Submit two (2) sets of engineering plans to the city showing the
location of the work in the public right-of-way.
(Code 1976, §§3-4-1(a), 3-4-2; Ord. No. 360, §§ 3, 4, 11, 12, 11-19-85)
Sec. 21-4. Connection of private drainage to curb or gutter.
   No person shall make any connection of any private drainage to a curb or
gutter without a permit issued by the city. A fee in the amount established by
resolution shall be paid to the city prior to the issuance of the permit.
(Code 1976, § 3-4-1(c))
Sec. 21-5. Removal of curbing.
   No person shall remove curbing for the construction of driveways or for any
other purpose without a permit issued by the city. A fee in the amount
established by resolution shall be paid to the city prior to the issuance of a
permit.
(Code 1976, § 3-4-1(f))
Sec. 21-6. Pavement specifications.
   All street and sidewalk pavements shall be in conformity with specifications
approved by the city engineer.
(Ord. No. 360, §, 11-19-85; Ord. No. 509, § 2, 9-20-94)
Cross reference--
Ch. 25, Street design standards, §
25-18, 25-32.
Sec. 21-7. Injury to improvements or repairs.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicles upon, or injure any
newly laid street or sidewalk pavement, or to disturb or cause damage or injury
to any work site while the same is guarded by barricade or warning.
(Ord. No. 360, §6, 11-19-85)
Sec. 21-8. Barricades.
   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk, or other
public place or making any excavation in the same, shall maintain suitable
barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle by reason of such work.
(Ord. No. 360, §7, 11-19-85)
Sec. 21-9. Encroachments.
   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (b), it shall be unlawful to erect or
maintain any building or structure which encroaches upon any public right-of-
way.
   (b)   The city may issue a revocable permit to encroach upon or otherwise
use any portion of a public street, alley, or sidewalk. A fee in the amount
established by resolution shall be paid to the city prior to the issuance of
the permit.
(Code 1976, § 3-4-1(b); Ord. No. 360, §8, 11-19-85)
Sec. 21-10. Structures, growths, planting on or overhanging rights-of-way.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any
structure on or overhanging any right-of-way. The construction or maintenance
of such structures shall constitute a public nuisance, which may be summarily
abated by the city council or its officers, servants, agents, or employees, if
it is deemed to be an immediate threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   (b)   The city, its officers, agents, servants, and employees shall have the
authority to physically remove any such structure on or overhanging the right-
of-way. If the owner of the structure fails to remove the same within a
reasonable time after written demand for the removal thereof has been made upon
him by registered mail or personal service, the city, its officers, agents,
servants, and employees may accomplish the removal of said structure.
   (c)   Any tree, shrub, hedge, flowers, or similar vegetation existing or
planted in the public right-of-way shall be maintained in a manner so as to not
unreasonably obstruct the view of motorists at intersections or driveways or
become a traffic or safety hazard.
   (d)   Any live tree, shrub, hedge, flowers, or similar vegetation existing
in any public right-of-way which is removed by any person other than the City
of The Village, its officers, agents, servants, and employees, for the purpose
of performing excavation or construction work shall be replaced by a similar
tree, shrub, hedge, flower, or by similar vegetation as approved by the city
manager or his designee.
   (e)   The city, its officers, agents, servants, and employees shall have the
authority to physically remove or trim any tree, shrub, or hedge-like growth on
or overhanging the right-of-way that unreasonably obstructs the view of
motorists at intersections or driveways or otherwise has become a traffic or
safety hazard. If the owner of the tree, shrub or hedge-like growth fails to
remove the same within a reasonable time after written demand for the removal
thereof has been made upon him by mail or personal service, the city, its
officers, agents, servants, and employees may remove, or trim said tree, shrub,
or hedge-like growth.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, renting, or having control
of real property in the city to allow the right-of-way or curb adjacent to said
property to become overgrown with grass or weeds or to become accumulated with
trash or debris in violation of Section 15-50 of this code.
   (g)   Any person owning, renting, or having control of real property as
referred to hereinabove shall maintain said right-of-way with grass or similar
vegetation or ground cover.
(Ord. No. 337, §§ 1, 2, 11-1-83; Ord. No. 360. §§ 9, 10, 11-19-85; Ord. No.
388, § 1, 7-21-87; Ord. No. 509, § 3, 9-20-94; Ord. No. 733, §2, 11-06-2017)
Cross references--Weeds and trash, §
15-50 et seq;
Chapter 13, §
13-228, exposure of right-of-way to vehicle traffic; Chapter 6, §
6-203.
Sec. 21-11. Backfilling.
   (a)   Backfilling of all trenches and excavation shall be compacted with a
vibrating compactor or water and vibrating compactor to ninety (90) percent
standard proctor.
   (b)   Compaction tests shall be performed at the expense of the holder of
the permit.
   (c)   Backfilling of soil and compaction shall be completed as work
progresses.
   (d)   Repair or replacement of driveways and other public improvements shall
be completed within fifteen (15) days of backfill.
   (e)   Backfill, compaction, replacement of driveways and public improvements
shall be done in accordance with details furnished by the city.
(Ord. No. 360. §13, 11-19-85)
Sec. 21-12. Groundcover.
Where vegetation or aggregate has been removed as part of the repair or
construction work in the right-of-way, the person holding the permit as
required under this article shall replace the vegetation or aggregate in like
manner as it was prior to the commencement of the repair or construction work.
In so far as practical, replacement shall be completed as work progresses and
shall be performed in accordance with details furnished by the city.
(Ord. No. 360, § 14, 11-19-85. Ord. No. 733, §3, 11-06-2017)
Section 21-13. Sight Triangles at Intersections.
   a)   A sight triangle shall be maintained at the intersection of two
residential streets. No visual impediment in excess of three (3') feet higher
than the roadway or lower than seven (7') feet in height above the roadway
shall be constructed or maintained in the area identified as the sight
triangle, nor shall any parking be allowed within the area of the sight
triangle.
   b)   The sight triangle shall be measured as follows: Beginning at a point
in the center of the pavement of the intersection of two residential streets;
thence extending imaginary lines down the middle of the pavement of both
intersecting streets to a point forty (40') feet from the center of the
intersection; then drawing an imaginary line at a forty-five-degree angle from
either of said points to complete the base of an isosceles triangle. (See
Figure 1).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2875.png]
 
(Ord. No. 706 §1, 05-04-2015)
Secs. 21-14--21-24. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. DEMONSTRATIONS
Sec. 21-25. Definitions.
   1.   As used in this Article:
   a.   "Demonstration" means any public meeting, gathering, ceremony, show,
exhibition; picketing, parade, rally, pageant, group, or crowd assembled or
organized to draw public attention for the purpose of conveying a message in or
upon any street, sidewalk, right-of-way, or other public place, but does not
include the following:
   i.   Funeral processions;
   ii.   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; and
   iii.   Governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
   b.   "Funeral" means the ceremonies, processions, memorial services and/or
assemblage of people held in connection with the burial, cremation and/or
memorialization of human body or human remains.
   c.   "School property" means all private schools or schools supported by
public taxation and shall include nurseries, kindergartens, elementary which
may include K-6 or K-8, middle schools, and secondary schools. School property
shall also refer to any administration building or property which is used in
the support or operation of the private or public-school system.
21-26. Activity Permit Required.
   a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or cause to be conducted
any demonstration on any of the streets, thoroughfares, bridges, or alleys of
the City without first having obtained a permit from the Chief of Police.
   b)   Permit requirements:
   1)   No signs or placards may be posted, inserted in the ground, or attached
to utility poles or street signs.
   2)   No blocking of sidewalks or driveways shall be permitted.
   3)   No interfering with pedestrian or vehicular traffic shall be permitted.
   4)   No sound amplification shall be permitted in any form.
   5)   No yelling, hooting, or shouting, so as to disturb the comfort, peace,
solemnity, repose, or good of the order of any person, resident, business,
school; place of worship or place of funeral shall be permitted.
   6)   Barricades, if required, shall be official barricades and shall be
placed in accordance with the Oklahoma Uniform Traffic Code as amended.
   7)   Applicant shall notify all affected residences, businesses, schools, or
places of worship prior to the permitted activity.
   8)   No trespassing on private property shall be permitted.
   9)   No wearing hoods or any device to disguise or hide the face shall be
permitted.
   10)   Permittee shall remove all trash following the permitted activity.
   11)   Chalk shall be the sole method of marking streets or sidewalks for
start-finish lines and parade routes or for similar designations and
inscriptions.
21-27. Application.
At least 48 hours before any person conducts any demonstration for which a
permit is required by the provisions of this Chapter, a written application for
a permit therefore shall be filed with the Chief of Police. The application
shall be accompanied by a written statement giving the route, date and time of
the demonstration, the number of expected participants and a description of the
area to be occupied for the requested demonstration and stating the nature and
purpose thereof.
21-28. Investigation and issuance.
The Chief of Police shall, upon receipt of an application made pursuant to the
provisions of this division, make such investigation and inquiry as he deems
necessary to determine whether any regular municipal service will be hampered,
obstructed, or delayed and the probable extent of extra policing, traffic
control or other protective service of the City which reasonably will be
occasioned thereby. If such interruption of municipal service or extent of
extra services is found to be unreasonable or detrimental to the interest of
the public, he shall endorse such finding on the application and decline to
grant the same.
Sec. 21-29. Obstruction of streets or sidewalks.
   a)   No person shall obstruct the free, convenient, and normal use of any
public sidewalk, street, highway, bridge, alley, road, or any other passageway,
by impeding, hindering, retarding, or restraining traffic thereon or therein.
   b)   No person shall stand in any street, street right-of-way, roadway,
center median or parkway and stop or attempt to stop any person in any vehicle
for the purpose of:
   1)   Soliciting charitable or other contributions;
   2)   Selling or attempting to sell anything to any person in any vehicle;
   3)   Handing or attempting to hand any person in any vehicle any circular,
advertisement, handbill, political campaign literature, or any sample,
souvenir, or gift;
   4)   Attempting to interfere with the normal flow of traffic for any other
purpose.
Sec. 21-30. Demonstrations near school property.
   a)   Purpose. To prevent the impediment of traffic on the sidewalks,
easements, and streets near our schools; to facilitate a proper, undisturbed
educational system by preventing possible disruptions that sometimes accompany
public demonstrations which would disrupt the classroom environment; to
maintain a safe environment for children and other members of the public
traveling to and from school grounds by regulating the time, place, and manner
of use thereof for public assemblies; to safeguard practical and effective
means whereby citizens may share a concurring right to free speech and assembly
so that they may express opinions and enlighten the public on the nature and
causes of matters of public concern.
   b)   Demonstrations not allowed. It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any demonstration within one
hundred fifty (150) feet of any school property.
Sec. 21-32. Disturbing or disrupting funerals prohibited.
   a)   The purpose of this section is to:
   1)   Prevent the impediment of traffic on the sidewalks, easements, and
streets near locations where funerals are being held;
   2)   Facilitate maintaining the solemnity and sanctity of undisturbed
funerals by preventing the possible disruptions that sometimes accompany public
demonstrations that would disturb, disrupt, interrupt or disquiet funerals;
   3)   Maintain a safe environment for mourners traveling to and from funerals
and other members of the traveling public by regulating the time, place, and
manner of use of sidewalks, easements, and streets for public assemblies; and
   4)   Safeguard practical and effective means whereby citizens may share a
concurring right to free speech and assembly so that they may express opinions,
enlighten the public on the nature, and causes of matters of public concern
while also ensuring participants' safety where the likelihood of harm could
result.
   b)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to willfully
disturb, disrupt, interrupt, or disquiet any funeral or to, without authority
of law, obstruct or detain any person engaged in carrying or accompanying any
human remains or dead body to a place of burial or other disposal.
   c)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to engage in a
demonstration within one thousand (1,000) feet of the property line of any
church, mortuary, or other place where a funeral is being held within one (1)
hour prior to, during and within two (2) hours following the commencement of
the funeral.
21-33. Penalty.
Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this Article shall be
guilty of a Class "A" offense punishable be a fine of up to $750.00 and/or up
to sixty (60) days imprisonment.
(Ord. No. 278, § 8a-9-6, 3-4-80; Ord. No. 465, §1, 10-06-2009)
CHAPTER 22
TAXATION
Art. I.   In General, §§22-1--22-15
Art. II.   Sales Tax, §§22-16--22-41
Art. III.   Use Tax, §§22-60--22-79
Art. IV.   Gross Receipts Tax, §§22-100--22-107
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 22-1--22-15. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. SALES TAX
Sec. 22-16. Citation.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as "The Village Sales Tax
Ordinance."
(Code 1976, §5-1-1)
Sec. 22-17. Definitions.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma
Statutes, Title 68, Section 1352 are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this article. In this article, "tax collector" means the department of
the city government or the official agency of the state duly designated
according to law or contract authorized by law to administer the collection of
the tax herein levied.
(Code 1976, §§ 5-1-14, 5-1-16)
Sec. 22-18. Article cumulative.
   The provisions of this article shall be cumulative, and in addition to any
and all other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(Code 1976, § 5-1-23)
Cross references--Ordinances levying or assessing taxes not inconsistent with
this Code saved from repeal, §
1-6(5); licenses, permits and miscellaneous business regulations,
Ch. 22.
State law reference--Municipal taxation generally, 68 O.S. §2701 et seq.
Sec. 22-19. Amendments.
   The people of the city by their approval of this article at an election
authorize the city council by ordinances duly enacted to make such
administrative and technical changes or additions to the method and manner of
administration and enforcing this article as may be necessary or proper for
efficiency and fairness except that the rate of the tax herein provided shall
not be changed without approval of the qualified electors of the city as
provided by law.
(Code 1976, § 5-1-15)
Sec. 22-20. Subsisting state permits.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Oklahoma Tax
Commission pursuant to the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code are, for the purposes of
this article hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirement
for an additional city permit for the same purpose.
(Code 1976, § 5-1-2)
State law reference--Permits to do business, 68 O.S. § 1364.
Sec. 22-20.1 Violations.
   Violations of this article are Class A offenses.
Sec. 22-21. Classification of taxpayers; business.
   For the purpose of this article, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code.
(Code 1976, § 5-1-11)
State law reference--Classification of vendors, 68 O.S. § 1363.
Sec. 22-22. Purpose of revenues.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this article to provide revenues
for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the city.
(Code 1976, § 5-1-4)
Sec. 22-23. Tax levied; sales subject to tax.
   (a)   There is hereby levied an excise tax of two (2) percent upon the gross
proceeds or gross receipts derived from all sales taxable under the Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code, including but not exclusive of the following:
(Ord. No. 431, § 1, 10-26-89; Ord. No. 432, § 1, 10-26-89)
   (1)   Tangible personal property;
   (2)   Natural or artificial gas, electricity, ice, steam, or any other
utility or public service, except water.
   (3)   Transportation for hire or persons by common carriers, including
railroads, both steam and electric, motor transportation companies, airlines,
and all other means of transportation for hire;
   (4)   Service by telephone and telegraph companies to subscribers or users,
including transmission of messages, whether local or long distance. This shall
include all services and rental charges having any connection with transmission
of any message;
   (5)   Printing or printed matter of all types, kinds and character and the
service of printing or overprinting;
   (6)   Service of furnishing rooms by hotels, apartment hotels, short-term
rentals (Airbnbs), public rooming houses and public lodging houses and tourist
camps;
   (7)   Service of furnishing storage or parking privileges by auto hotels and
parking lots;
   (8)   Food, confections, and all drinks sold or dispensed by hotels,
restaurants, or other dispensers, and sold for immediate consumption upon the
premises or delivered or carried away from the premises for consumption
elsewhere;
   (9)   Advertising of all kinds, types, and character, including any and all
devices used for advertising purposes and the servicing of any advertising
devices, except as provided in section 22-24, paragraph (14);
   (10)   Dues or fees to clubs, and the sale of tickets or admission to places
of amusement, to athletic entertainment, recreational events, or dues or fees
for the privilege of having access to or the use of amusement, entertainment,
athletic or recreational facilities, including free or complimentary passes,
tickets, dues or fees are hereby declared to have a value equivalent to the
sale price of tickets, passes, admissions, fees or dues of like kind or
character.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, sales of services and tangible
personal property made for the purpose of developing real estate even though
such real estate is intended for resale as real property are hereby declared to
be sales to consumers or users. Sales of service and tangible personal property
including materials, supplies and equipment made to contractors who use same in
the performance of any contract, are hereby declared to be sales to consumers
or users and not sales for resale. Sales of tangible personal property to
persons who are primarily engaged in selling their services shall be deemed
sales to consumers or users and therefore, taxable. Sales of tangible personal
property to peddlers, solicitors and other salesmen who do not have established
places of business shall be deemed to be sales to consumers or users, and
therefore, taxable.
   (c)   The total retail sale price receipted for the sale, preparation or
service of mixed beverages, ice, and non-alcoholic beverages to be mixed with
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where such sale,
preparation and service occurs shall constitute the gross receipts from such
transaction.
   (d)   The general-purpose sales tax rate provided in Section 22-23 (a)
herein shall be increased by an amount equal to three quarters of one percent
(3/4%). (Ord. No. 431, § 2, 10-26-89)
(Editor's note: This ¾% permanent sales tax increased the sales tax rate to
2.75% on July 1, 1990.)
   (e)   The sales tax rate provided in Section 22-23 (a) herein shall be
increased by an amount equal to one half of one percent (1/2%). (Ord. No. 432,
§ 2, 10-26-89)
(Editor's note: This ½% temporary tax increased the sales tax rate to 3.25% on
July 1, 1990. The temporary levy lapsed on June 30, 1994, thereby reducing the
sales tax rate to 2.75% on July 1, 1994)
   (f)   The sales tax rate provided in Section 22-23 (a) herein shall be
increased by an additional amount equal to one and one quarter percent (1-1/
4%). (Ord. No. 567, §1, 4-3-01)
(Editor's note: This 1-1/4% permanent sales tax increased the sales tax rate to
4% on July 1, 2001)
   (g)   The sales tax rate provided in Section 22-23 (a) herein shall be
increased by an additional amount equal to one half percent (1/2%). (Ord. No.
732, §4, 11-06-2017)
(Editor's note: This 1/2% permanent sales tax increased the sales tax rate to
4.5% on April 1, 2018. This additional tax is dedicated for capital
expenditures)
(Code 1976, § 5-1-5; Ord. No. 221, § 1, 8-3-76; Ord. No. 354, § 1, 7-16-85;
Ord. No. 394, § 1, 9-15-87; Ord. No. 396, § 1, 10-13-87; Ord. No. 397, § 1, 10-
13-87; Ord. No. 431, §§ 1, 2, 10-26-89; Ord. No. 432, §§ 1, 2, 10-26-89; Ord.
No. 567, §§ 1-4, 4-3-01; 2022 City Code)
State law reference--levy of state sales tax, 68 O.S. § 1354.
Sec. 22-24. Exemptions generally.
   There is hereby specifically exempted from the tax levied by this article
the gross receipts or gross proceeds exempted from the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code
inclusive but not exclusive of the following:
   (1)   Sales of raw products from the farm, orchard or garden where such sale
is made by the producer of such raw products directly to the consumer or user;
gross receipts or gross proceeds derived form the sale of livestock, poultry,
poultry products derived from the sale of livestock, poultry, poultry products,
and dairy products by the producers; exemptions granted by this paragraph shall
not apply when such articles are sold, even though by the producer thereof, at
or from an "established business place" not on a farm; neither shall this
exemption apply unless said articles are produced or grown within the state.
The provisions of this paragraph are intended to exempt the sale by livestock
producers of livestock sold at special livestock sales. The provisions of this
paragraph are intended to exempt the sale of dairy products when sold by a
dairyman or farmer who owns all of the cows from which the dairy products he
sells are produced. The provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to
exempt sales of dairy products by any other business. The provisions of this
paragraph shall not be construed to exempt sales by florists, nurserymen, and
chicken hatcheries.
   (2)   Dues paid to fraternal, religious, civic, charitable, or educational
societies or organizations by regular members, thereof, provided, such
societies or organizations operate under what is commonly termed the lodge plan
or system, and provided such societies or organizations do not operate for a
profit which inures to the benefit of any individual member or members thereof
to exclusion of other members.
   (3)   Sale of tangible personal property or services to or by churches,
except where such organizations may be engaged in business for profit or
savings, competing with other persons engaged in the same or similar business.
   (4)   Gross receipts and gross proceeds deriving from the transportation of
schoolchildren to and from schools and high schools in motor and other
vehicles.
   (5)   Transportation of persons where the fare of each person does not
exceed fifteen cents ($0.15), or local transportation of persons within the
corporate limits of cities and towns except by taxicabs.
   (6)   Sale of food in public, common, high school or college cafeterias and
lunchrooms operated primarily for teachers and pupils, not operated for the
public and not operated for profit.
   (7)   Carrier sales made directly to consumers or users or newspapers or any
other periodicals where any individual transaction does not exceed twenty cents
($.20).
   (8)   Sales to the United States Government, State of Oklahoma, or any of
its political subdivisions.
   (9)   Sale of gasoline or motor fuel on which the motor fuel tax, gasoline
excise tax or special fuels tax has been paid to the state.
   (10)   Sale of crude petroleum or natural or casing head gas and other
products subject to gross production tax under the provisions of the laws of
this state. The exemption shall not apply when such products are sold to a
consumer or user for consumption or use, except when used for injection into
the earth for the purpose of promoting or facilitating the production of oil or
gas.
   (11)   Sales of motor vehicles attached optional equipment and accessories
on which sale the Oklahoma motor vehicle excise tax has been paid.
   (12)   Sales by county, district, and state fairs.
   (13)   Sale of advertising space in newspaper and periodicals and billboard
advertising service, and sales of time for radio and television broadcasts of
advertising.
   (14)   Sales for resale to persons regularly engaged in the business of
reselling the articles purchased, whether within or without the state, provided
that such sales to residents of this state are made to persons to whom sales
tax permits have been issued by the Oklahoma Tax Commission as provided by law.
This exemption shall not apply to the sales of articles made to persons holding
permits when such persons purchase items for their use and which they are not
regularly engaged in the business of reselling; neither shall this exemption
apply to sales of tangible personal property to peddlers, solicitors and other
salesmen who do not have sales tax permits or established places of business.
   (15)   Goods, wares, merchandise, and property sold for use in
manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling, or preparing for sale shall
be classified as having been sold for the purpose of resale or the subject
matter of resale only in the event:
   (a)   Such goods, wares, merchandise, or property are purchased for the
purpose of being manufactured into a finished article and if it becomes a
recognizable, integral part of the manufactured, compounded, processed,
assembled, or prepared products; or
   (b)   If it is consumed in the process of manufacturing, compounding,
processing, assembling, or preparing products for resale.
   (16)   Sale of machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons
establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in Oklahoma, and machinery
and equipment purchased and used by persons in the operation of manufacturing
plants already established in Oklahoma, provided, this exemption shall not
apply unless such machinery and equipment is incorporated into, and is directly
used in, the process of manufacturing property subject to taxation hereunder.
The term "manufacturing plants" shall mean those establishments primarily
engaged in manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as
such.
   (17)   Sale of tangible personal property manufactured in Oklahoma when sold
by the manufacturer to a person who transports it to another state for
immediate and exclusive use in some other state.
   (18)   Sale of an interest in tangible personal property to a partner or
other person who after such sale owns a joint interest in such tangible
personal property where the Oklahoma sales or use tax has previously been paid
on such tangible personal property.
   (19)   Sales of containers shall be exempt when sold to a person regularly
engaged in the business of reselling empty or filled containers, or when he
purchases such containers for the purpose of packaging raw products or farm,
garden or orchard, for resale to the consumer or processor, provided, this
exemption shall not apply to the sale of containers used more than once and
which are ordinarily known as returnable containers unless a tax under this
article is collected and paid to the tax collector with respect to each and
every transfer by such person of title or possession of such returnable
container if made to any consumer or user within this state; nor shall it apply
to the sale of labels or other material delivered along with items sold but
which are not necessary or absolutely essential to the sale of the sold
merchandise.
   (20)   Exemptions of poultry and livestock feed, and farm machinery as
prescribed by the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code shall be equally applicable as
exemptions from the tax herein levied. All sales of farm machinery within the
city are specifically exempted from the city tax levied by this article.
(Code 1976, §5-1-6; Ord. No. 354, § 2, 7-16-85)
State law reference--General exemptions from the state sales tax, 68 O.S.
§1357.
Sec. 22-25. Exemption of fertilizer.
   In addition to all other exemptions allowed by this article, the sales of
agricultural fertilizer to persons regularly engaged for profit in the business
of farming and/or ranching which are exempt from state sales taxes under
provision of Oklahoma Statutes, title 68, section 1358(E)(2) shall likewise be
exempt from the city sales tax herein levied.
(Code 1876, §5-1-21)
Sec. 22-26. Other exempt transfers.
   There is hereby specifically exempted form the tax herein levied the
transfer of tangible personal property exempted from the Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code inclusive but not exclusive of the following:
   (1)   From one corporation to another corporation pursuant to a
reorganization. As used in this paragraph "reorganization" means:
   a.   A statutory merger or consolidation;
   b.   The acquisition by a corporation of substantially all of the properties
of another corporation when the consideration is solely all or a part of the
voting stock of the acquiring corporation, or of its parent or subsidiary
corporation;
   (2)   In connection with the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of a
corporation only when there is a distribution in kind to the shareholders of
the property of such corporation;
   (3)   To corporation for the purpose of organization of such corporation
where the former owners of the property transferred are immediately after the
transfer in control of the corporation and the stock or securities received by
each is substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior to
the transfer;
   (4)   To a partnership in the organization of such partnership if the former
owners of the property transferred are immediately after the transfer, members
of such partnerships and the interest in the partnership, received by each, is
substantially in proportion to this interest in the property prior to the
transfer;
   (5)   From a partnership to the members thereof when made in kind in the
dissolution of such partnership.
(Code 1976, §5-1-7)
State law reference--Exempt transfers, 68 O.S. §1360.
Sec. 22-27. Due date; returns; records.
   The tax levied hereunder shall be due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the state sales tax under Oklahoma
Sales Tax Code.
(Code 1976, §5-1-8)
State law reference--Due date, etc., of state sales tax, 68 O.S. §1365.
Sec. 22-28. Payment of tax.
   The tax herein levied shall be paid to the tax collector at the time in form
and manner provided for payment of state sales tax under the Oklahoma Sales Tax
Code.
(Code 1976, §5-1-9)
State law reference--Remittance of state sales tax, 68 O.S. §1362.
Sec. 22-29. Vendor's duty to collect tax.
   (a)   The tax levied hereunder shall be paid by the consumer or user to the
vendor, and it shall be the duty of each and every vendor in this city to
collect from the consumer or user, the full amount of the tax levied by this
article, or an amount equal as nearly as possible or practicable to the average
equivalent thereof.
   (b)   Vendors shall add the tax imposed hereunder, or the average equivalent
thereof, to the sales price or charge, and when added such tax shall constitute
a part of such price or charge, shall be debt from the consumer or user to
vendor until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts.
   (c)   A vendor who willfully or intentionally fails, neglects or refuses to
comply with the provisions or remits or rebates to a consumer or user, either
directly or indirectly, and by whatsoever means, all or any part of the tax
herein levied, or makes in any form of advertising, verbally or otherwise, any
statement which infers that he is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the
consumer or user by an adjustment of prices or at a price including the tax, or
in any manner whatsoever, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Code 1976, §5-1-12)
State law reference--Payment, collection, etc., of state sales tax, 68 O.S.
§1361.
Sec. 22-30. Returns and remittance; discounts.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the tax collector at the time, and in the manner form and amount as
prescribe for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma Sales Tax Code.
Remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same discount as
may be allowed by said code for collection of state sales taxes.
(Code 1976, §5-1-13)
State law reference-Remittance of state sales tax, 68 O.S. §1362; discount for
collection of state sales tax, 68 O.S. §1367.
Sec. 22-31. Interest and penalties--Delinquency.
   Oklahoma Statutes, title 68, section 217, is hereby adopted and made a part
of this article, and interest and penalties at the rates and in amounts as
therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of
delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by said ordinance. The
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make and transmit the reports and
remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this article shall cause
such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such delinquency continues for a
period of five (5) days the taxpayer shall forfeit his claim to any discount
allowed hereunder this article.
(Code 1976, §5-1-17)
Sec. 22-32. Waiver of interest and penalties.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
taxpayer's failure to pay the city tax herein levied may be waived or remitted
in the same manner as provided for the waiver or remittance as applied in
administration of the state sales tax provided in Oklahoma Statutes, title 68,
section 220; and to accomplishing the purposes of this section the applicable
provisions of said section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this article.
(Code 1976, §5-1-18)
Sec. 22-33. Tax, etc., constitutes preferred claim.
   The taxes, penalty, and interest due hereunder shall at all times constitute
a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of unsecured
creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Code 1976, §5-1-10)
Sec. 22-34. Erroneous payments; claim for refund.
   Refund or erroneous payment of the city sales tax herein levied may be made
to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and procedure,
and under the same limitations of time, as provided for administration of the
state sales tax as set forth in Oklahoma Statutes, title 68, section 227, and
to accomplish the purposes of this section, the applicable provisions of said
section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this article.
(Code 1976, §5-1-19)
Sec. 22-35. Fraudulent returns.
In addition to all civil penalties provided by this ordinance, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this ordinance shall be a Class A Offense, and upon conviction thereof the
offending taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than Seven Hundred
dollars ($750.00) and/or sixty days (60) imprisonment. Each day of
noncompliance with this ordinance shall constitute a separate offense
(Code 1976, §5-1-20; Code 2004)
Sec. 22-36. Records confidential.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the city sales tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of Oklahoma Statutes, title
68, section 205, and each subsection thereof is hereby adopted by reference and
made fully effective and applicable to administration of the city sales tax as
if set forth in full.
(Code 1976, §5-1-22)
Sec. 22-37. Purpose of Funds.
   a)   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of Ordinance 431 to provide
additional general-purpose revenues from a three-quarters of one percent (3/4%)
increase in the excise tax on all sales taxable under the Sales Tax Code of
Oklahoma as amended or revised for, but not limited to, increasing the number
of Police and Fire Department personnel, and providing [for] competitive
compensation for said departments. (Ord. No. 431, Section 3, 10-26-1989)
   b)   It is hereby declared to be the exclusive purpose of Ordinance 432 to
provide additional revenues from a one-half of one percent (1/2%) increase in
the excise tax on all sales taxable under the Sales Tax Code of Oklahoma as
amended or revised to construct, furnish and equip a municipal building to
serve as a police station, jail, municipal court, and administration building
and to renovate, expand, furnish and equip the existing fire station, and that
all said revenues derived hereunder shall be expended by the city council of
the City of The Village for the sole and exclusive purpose herein expressed.
(Ord. No. 432, Section 3, 10-26-89)
   c)   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of Ordinance 567 to provide
general purpose revenues from an additional one and one quarter percent (1-1/
4%) increase in the excise tax on all sales taxable under the Sales Tax Code of
Oklahoma, as amended or revised.
   d)   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of Ordinance 732 to provide
revenues from an additional one-half percent (1/2%) increase in the excise tax
on all sales taxable under the Sales Tax Code of Oklahoma, as amended or
revised to be used to fund capital expenditures, all for the use and benefit of
the City and any public trust having the City as beneficiary thereof, and/or
for the payment of debt service in connection with obligations heretofore
issued or to be issued by the City and any public trust having the City as
beneficiary thereof to finance or refinance said capital expenditures and
related costs. (Ord. No. 732, §3, 11-06-2017)
Sec. 22-38 Expiration of Tax Increase.
   The increased levy of one-half percent excise tax provided herein (Ordinance
432) shall terminate no later than thirty (30) days after the month in which
either an amount equal to the total contract price for making the improvements
specified in Section 22-37, Subsection (b), or two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) whichever is less, has been collected in additional sales tax
from said increase of the excise tax.
(Ord. No. 432, Section 4, 10-26-89)
Sec. 22-39. Extension of excise tax increase requires vote of electors.
   The increased levy of said excise tax as provided herein shall not extend
without a vote of approval by a majority of the registered qualified voters of
the City of The Village, Oklahoma, voting on such question, in the manner
prescribed by law.
(Ord. No. 432, Section 5, 10-26-89)
Sec. 22-40. Approval of Voters and Effective Date.
   a)   Upon the approval of majority of the qualified registered voters of the
City of The Village, Oklahoma voting on such question at a special municipal
election in the manner prescribed by law, the provisions of this Ordinance
(Ordinance 431 and 432) shall take effect upon the first day of the month
following the termination of the one-half percent (1/2%) library construction
tax as authorized by Ordinance 397 of the City Code.
   b)   Upon the approval of majority of the qualified registered voters of the
City of The Village, Oklahoma voting on such question at a special municipal
election in the manner prescribed by law, the provisions of this Ordinance
(Ordinance 732) shall take effect on April 1, 2018. (Ord. No. 732, §4, 11-06-
2017)
(Ord. No. 431, Section 4, 10-26-89; Ord. No. 432, Section 6, 10-26-89)
Sec. 22-41. Tax Bracket System.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to publish for the convenience of
vendors in the City of The Village a tax bracket system for collecting both the
four- and one-half percent (4.5%) state sales tax and the applicable city sales
tax. Such bracket system is designed and shall be interpreted in a manner
consistent with the purposes of the bracket system as provided in Title 68 O.S.
1981 Section 1362, as amended, or revised, in respect to the Sales Tax Code of
Oklahoma.
   The use of the bracket system guidelines hereby authorized does not relieve
the vendor from the duty and liability to remit to the tax collector an amount
equal to the applicable percent of gross receipts or gross proceeds derived
from all sales during the taxable period described.
(Ord. No. 431, Section 5, 10-26-89; Ord. No. 432, Section 7, 10-26-89; Ord. No.
567, §4, 4-3-01)
ARTICLE III: USE TAX
Secs. 22-42--22-59 Reserved.
Sec. 22-60. Excise tax on storage, use or other consumption of intangible
personal property levied.
   There is hereby levied and there shall be paid by every person storing,
using, or otherwise consuming within the municipality tangible, personal
property purchased or brought into this municipality, an excise tax on the
storage, use or other consuming within the municipality of such property at the
rate of four percent (4%) of the purchase price of such property. Such tax
shall be paid by every person storing, using or otherwise consuming, within the
municipality, tangible, personal property purchased or brought into the
municipality. The additional tax levied hereunder shall be paid at the time of
importation or storage of the property within the municipality and shall be
assessed to only property purchased outside Oklahoma; provided, that the tax
levied herein shall not be levied against tangible personal property intended
solely for use outside the municipality, but which is stored in the
municipality pending shipment outside the municipality or which is temporarily
retained in the municipality for the purpose of fabrication, repair, testing,
alteration, maintenance or other service. Any person liable for payment of the
tax authorized herein may deduct from such tax any local or municipal sales tax
previously paid on such goods or services; provided, that the amount deducted
shall not exceed the amount that would have been due if the taxes imposed by
the municipality had been levied on the sale of such goods or services.
(Ord. No. 452, § 1, 12-18-90; Ord. No. 502, § 1, 6-7-94)
State law reference--Municipal taxation generally, 68 O.S. Section 2701 et seq.
Sec. 22-61. Exemptions.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall not apply:
   (a)   In respect to the use of an article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by a nonresident individual visiting this
municipality for his or her personal use or enjoyment while within the
municipality;
   (b)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property purchased for
resale before being used;
   (c)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property on
which a tax, equal to or in excess of that levied by both the Oklahoma Use Tax
Code and the City of The Village Use Tax Ordinance, has been paid by the person
using such tangible, personal property in the municipality, whether such tax
was levied under the laws of Oklahoma or some other state or municipality of
the United States. If any article of tangible, personal property has already
been subjected to a tax by Oklahoma or any other state or municipality by both
the Oklahoma Use Tax Code and the City of The Village Use Tax Code measured by
the difference only between the rate provided by both the Oklahoma Use Tax Code
and the City of The Village Use Tax Ordinance, and the rate by which the
previous tax upon the sale or use was computed. Provided, that no credit shall
be given for taxes paid in another state or municipality, if that state or
municipality does not grant like credit for taxes paid in Oklahoma and the
municipality;
   (d)   In respect to the use of machinery and equipment purchased and used by
persons establishing new manufacturing or processing plants in the
municipality, and machinery and equipment purchased and used by persons in the
operation of manufacturing plants already established in the municipality.
Provided, this exemption shall not apply unless such machinery and equipment
are incorporated into, and is directly used in, the process of manufacturing
property subject to taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality. The
term "manufacturing plants" shall mean those establishments primarily engaged
in manufacturing or processing operations, and generally recognized as such;
   (e)   In respect to the use of tangible, personal property now specifically
exempted from taxation under the Sales Tax Code of the municipality;
   (f)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
brought into the municipality by an individual with intent to become a resident
of this municipality where such personal property is for such individual's
personal use or enjoyment;
   (g)   In respect to the use of any article of tangible, personal property
used or to be used by commercial airlines or railroads;
   (h)   In respect to livestock purchased outside Oklahoma and brought into
this municipality for feeding or breeding purposes, and which is later resold.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
Sec. 22-62. Time when due, returns, payment.
   The tax levied by this Ordinance is due and payable at the time and in the
manner and form prescribed for payment of the State Use Tax under the Use Tax
Code of the State of Oklahoma.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
Sec. 22-63. Tax constitutes debt.
   Such taxes, penalty, and interest due hereunder shall at all times
constitute a prior, superior, and paramount claim as against the claims of
unsecured creditors and may be collected by suit as any other debt.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
Sec. 22-64. Collection of tax by retailer or vendor.
   Every retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without the state of Oklahoma, and making sales of tangible, personal property
from a place of business outside this state for use in this municipality shall
at the time of making such sales collect the use tax levied by this ordinance
from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefore in the manner
and form prescribed by the Tax Commission, if the Tax Commission shall, by
regulation, require such receipt. Each retailer or vendor shall list with the
Tax Commission the name and location of any and all distribution or sales
houses or offices of other places of business in this City.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
Sec. 22-65. Collection of tax by retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of
business within state or both within and without state; permits.
The Tax Commission may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the tax herein levied by any retailer or vendor not maintaining a
place of business within this state but who makes sales of tangible personal
property for use in this municipality and by the out-of-state place of business
of any retailer or vendor maintaining places of business both within and
without Oklahoma and making sales of tangible, personal property at such out-
of-state place of business for use in this municipality. Such retailer or
vendor may be issued, without charge, a permit to collect such taxes, by the
Tax Commission in such manner and subject to such regulations and agreements,
as it shall prescribe. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such
retailer or vendor to collect the tax upon all tangible, personal property sold
to his knowledge for use within this municipality. Such authority and permit
may be canceled when at any time the Tax Commission considers that such tax can
more effectively be collected from the person using such property in this
municipality. Provided, however, that in all instances where such sales are
made or completed by delivery to the purchaser within this municipality by the
retailer or vendor in such retailer's or vendor's vehicle, whether owned or
leased (not by common carrier), such sales or transactions shall continue to be
subject to applicable municipality Sales Tax at the point of delivery and the
tax shall be collected and reported under taxpayer's sales tax permit number
accordingly.
Sec. 22-66. Revoking permits.
   Whenever any retailer or vendor not maintaining a place of business in this
state, or both within and without this state, and authorized to collect the tax
herein levied, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this ordinance or
the Oklahoma Use Tax Code or any order, rules or regulations of the Tax
Commission, the Tax Commission may, upon notice and hearing as provided for in
68 O.S. 1981, Section 1408, by order revoke the use tax permit, if any, issued
to such retailer or vendor, and if any such retailer or vendor is a corporation
authorized to do business in this state, may, after notice and hearing above
prescribed, cancel said corporation's license to do business in this state and
shall issue a new license only when such corporation has complied with the
obligations under this ordinance, the Oklahoma Use Tax Code, or any order,
rules or regulations of the Tax Commission.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
State law reference--68 O.S. 1981, Section 1408)
Sec. 22-67. Remunerative deductions allowed vendors or retailers of other
states.
   Returns and remittances of the tax herein levied and collected shall be made
to the Tax Commission at the time and in the manner, form and amount as
prescribed for returns and remittances required by the Oklahoma Use Tax Code;
and remittances of tax collected hereunder shall be subject to the same
discount as may be allowed by said code for the collection of State Use Taxes.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
Sec. 22-68. Interest penalties; delinquency.
   Section 217 of Title 68 O.S. 1981 is hereby adopted and made a part of this
ordinance, and interest and penalties at the rates and in the amounts as
therein specified are hereby levied and shall be applicable in cases of
delinquency in reporting and paying the tax levied by this ordinance. Provided,
that the failure or refusal of any retailer or vendor to make and transmit the
reports and remittances of tax in the time and manner required by this
ordinance shall cause such tax to be delinquent. In addition, if such
delinquency continues for a period of five (5) days, the retailer or vendor
shall forfeit his claim to any discount allowed under this ordinance.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
State law reference--Adoption by reference, 11 O.S. §14-107.
Sec. 22-69. Waiver of interest and penalties.
   The interest or penalty or any portion thereof accruing by reason of a
retailer's or vendor's failure to pay the municipality tax herein levied may be
waived or remitted in the same manner as provided for said waiver or remittance
as applied in administration of the State Use Tax provided in 68. O.S. 1981,
Section 227, and to accomplish the purposes of this section the applicable
provisions of 68 O.S. 1981, Section 220 are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this ordinance.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
State law reference--Adoption by reference, 11 O.S. §14-107; State Use Tax, 68
O.S. 1981, §§ 220 and 227.
Sec. 22-70. Erroneous Payments; claim for refund.
   Refund of erroneous payment of the municipality Use Tax herein levied may be
made to any taxpayer making such erroneous payment in the same manner and
procedure, and under the same limitations of time, as provided for
administration of the State Use Tax as set forth is 68 O.S. 1981, Section 227,
and to accomplish the purpose of this section, the applicable provisions of
said Section 227 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
ordinance.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
State law reference--Adoption by reference, 11 O.S. §14-107; State Use Tax, 68
O.S. 1981, §227.
Sec. 22-71. Fraudulent returns; Violations.
   In addition to all civil penalties provided by this ordinance, the willful
failure or refusal of any taxpayer to make reports and remittances herein
required, or the making of any false and fraudulent report for the purpose of
avoiding or escaping payment of any tax or portion thereof rightfully due under
this ordinance shall be a Class A Offense, and upon conviction thereof the
offending taxpayer shall be punished by a fine of not more than Seven Hundred
and Fifty Dollars ($750.00) and/or sixty days (60) imprisonment. Each day of
noncompliance with this ordinance shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
Sec. 22-72. Records confidential.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the municipality Use Tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provisions of 68 O.S. 1981, Section 205,
of the State Use Tax Code, and each subsection thereof, is hereby adopted by
reference and made fully effective and applicable to administration of the
municipality Use Tax as herein set forth in full.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
State law reference--Adoption by reference, 11 O.S. §14-107; 68 O.S. 1981,
Section 205.
Sec. 22-73. Provisions cumulative.
The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all other
taxing provisions of the municipality ordinances.
Sec. 22-74. Definitions.
   The definitions of words, terms and phrases contained in the Oklahoma Use
Tax Code, Section 1401, 68 O.S. 1981, are hereby adopted by reference and made
a part of this ordinance. In addition, thereto, the following words and teams
shall be defined as follows:
   1.   City shall mean the City of The Village;
   2.   Transaction shall mean sale.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
State law reference--Adoption by reference, 11 O.S. §14-107; State Use Tax, 68
O.S. 1981, §1401.
Sec. 22-75. Tax collector defined.
   The term "tax collector" as used herein means the department of the
municipal government or the official agency of the state, duly designated
according to law or contract authorized by law, to administer the collection of
the tax herein levied.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
Sec. 22-76. Classification of taxpayers.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the classification of taxpayers hereunder
shall be as prescribed by state law for purposes of the Oklahoma Use Tax Code.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
Sec. 22-77. Subsisting state permits.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the Tax Commission
pursuant to the Oklahoma Use Tax Code are for the purpose of this ordinance
hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional municipality permit for the same purpose.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
Sec. 22-78. Purposes of revenues.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this ordinance to provide
revenues for the support of the functions of the municipal government of the
municipality, and any and all revenues derived hereunder may be expended by the
governing body of the municipality for any purpose for which funds may be
lawfully expended as authorized.
(Ord No. 452, Section 1, 12-18-90)
Sec. 22-79. Effective date.
   The provisions of this Article shall become effective on and after January
1, 1991.
Reserved. Secs 22-80--22-99.
ARTICLE IV: GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
Sec. 22-100. Gross Receipts Tax Levied.
   (a)   There is hereby levied and assessed an annual tax of two percent (2%)
upon the gross receipts from residential and commercial sales of water, sewer
service, and natural gas in the City of The Village, which tax shall be in lieu
of another franchise, license, occupation, or excise tax levy by such city, as
provided by O.S. Title 68, Chapter 25, as amended.
   (b)   The tax levied under this Article shall, when levied, apply to all
persons, firms, associations, or corporations, engaged in the business of
furnishing water, sewer service, and natural gas within the corporate limits of
The Village, except it shall not apply to any person, firm, association, or
corporation operating under a valid franchise from said city.
   (c)   The tax levied under this Article shall be levied for a term of not
less than one (1) year and shall be payable quarterly and placed in the general
revenue fund of the city.
   (d)   Any person, firm, or corporation failing or refusing to pay such tax
when levied shall be regarded as a trespasser and may be ousted from such city,
and, in addition thereof, an action may be maintained against such persons,
firm or corporation for the amount of the tax, and all expenses of collecting
same, including reasonable attorney's fees.
   (e)   The tax so imposed shall constitute a first and prior lien on all the
assets located within said city of any person, firm or corporation engaged in
the business of selling water, sewer service, or natural gas within the city
limits of the City of The Village.
(Ord. No. 10, §1, 12/30/1950; Ord. No. 13, §1-7, 3-31-51; 2000 Code; 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 23
UTILITIES
Art. I.   In General, §§ 23-1--23-17
   
Div. 1.   Definitions, §23-1
Art. II.   Sanitation & Sewer Services, §§ 23-18--23-75
Art. III.   Utility Service Agreements, Lien, §§ 23-76--23-99
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
DIV 1. DEFINITIONS.
Sec. 23-1. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bulky Waste - Includes but is not limited to household appliances, furniture,
carpet, mattresses, box springs, water tanks, containerized do-it-yourself
remodeling wastes, fencing and similar non-contracted items, bagged grass, and
brush produced as refuse from single-family dwellings receiving collection
services from Contractor. All appliances containing chlorofluorocarbons, (air
conditioners, refrigerators, and freezers) must be certified "Freon-free" or
compressors must be removed before collection may be completed. Appliances
containing Freon can be picked up by special arrangement. Items excluded under
the definition of bulky waste include hospital and medical waste, poisons,
acids and caustics, explosives, dirt and rocks, sewage and liquid waste,
nuclear materials, gasoline, kerosene, propane tanks, degreasers, lubricants,
tires and rims, antifreeze, paint, and commercial construction debris
City means the City of The Village, Oklahoma.
Commercial Refuse means all bulky waste, construction debris, trash and garbage
generated by a producer at a commercial unit.
Contractor means the person, corporation, or partnership performing refuse
collection and disposal operation under contract with the City.
Customer means any Person or Entity who is an Owner, landlord or deed holder of
property who enters into a contract agreement with the City to receive and pay
for sewer and sanitation service provided or available to be provided by the
City to a premises. Customers may, but need not be, the direct consumers or
recipients of the services provided. Customers include indirect consumers and
recipients and owners who receive benefit or whose property is directly or
indirectly benefited or enhanced by the provision or the availability of sewer
and sanitation services
Director means the Director of Public Works of the City of The Village or any
designated representative thereof.
Dishonored Check means a check or other negotiable instrument that has been
dishonored by a bank or other financial institution on the basis of
insufficient funds, account closed or for any reason which causes a check to be
returned unpaid to the City.
Disposal Site means a refuse depository, including but not limited to a
landfill or other sanitary landfills, transfer stations, incinerators, and
waste processing/separation centers licensed, permitted, or approved to receive
for processing or final disposal of refuse by all governmental bodies and
agencies having jurisdiction and requiring such licenses permits or approvals.
Entity means any business or other organization created by or pursuant to
statute or private agreement other than a natural person, including but not
limited to corporations, limited liability companies, trusts, and partnerships.
Hazardous Waste means any chemical, compound, mixture, substance, or article,
which is designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
appropriate agency of the State of Oklahoma to be "hazardous" as that term, is
defined by or pursuant to Federal or State law. Hazardous wastes shall also
include biomedical wastes, the disposal of which is regulated by Federal or
State law. Non-regulated medical wastes shall not be considered hazardous
wastes for the purpose of this contract.
Metallic container or metallic bin means a metal container furnished by the
city or by its contractor for waste disposal by producers at commercial units
and which is approved for use with the hydraulic load-lift attachments used in
the city's commercial waste collection service.
Metallic or plastic garbage can means a, privately owned and maintained, water-
tight metallic or plastic garbage can of sufficient size to hold not less than
Twenty (20) nor more than thirty-three (33) gallons, with close fitting covers,
and with handles upon the sides.
Owner means the owner of any premises, lot or parcel of land, or adjoining lots
or parcels of land belonging to the same person, as recorded by the Oklahoma
County Assessor, unless the premises, lot or parcel of land or adjoining lots
or parcels of land, including the yards of same, are occupied and are clearly
defined and under the exclusive control of the occupant.
Person means any individual eighteen years or older or an emancipated minor.
Pickup point means any premises regularly served by the solid waste collection
service.
Plastic bag means a bag made of plastic which does not exceed thirty-three (33)
gallons in capacity, and which is designed for the disposal of solid wastes.
Polycart means a plastic, injection molded, and two-wheeled cart designed to
contain either 65 or 95 gallons of residential waste or recyclables and which
is fabricated to specifications approved by the city.
Producer means the owner, occupant, or rental agent of any commercial,
institutional, or residential unit or premises in the city.
Recyclable material means any material that is designated by the city for
collection pursuant to the city's recycling program and which may include
aluminum cans, cardboard, newsprint, magazines, bulk mail and similar paper
products, bimetallic cans, tin cans, plastics and other commodities as may be
designated by the city from time to time.
Rental Agent means the agent, contractor, or employee in charge of the renting,
or maintenance of any premises.
Residential Unit means all residential premises, locations, or entities,
requiring refuse collection within the corporate limits of the City.
Residential Unit shall not include multi-family residential units designated by
the City.
Rubbish or Refuse means all waste wood, wood products, yard wastes, printed
matter, paper, pasteboard, rags, straw, used and discarded clothing, used and
discarded shoes and boots, combustible waste pulp and other products such as
are used for packaging, or wrapping crockery and glass, ashes, cinders, floor
sweepings, glass, plastic, mineral or metallic substances, and any and all
other waste materials not included in the definition of bulky waste,
construction debris, dead animals, hazardous waste, rubbish or stable matter,
but not including dirt, sand, sod, potting soil, peat, rock, bricks, gravel, or
boulders.
Sanitary or sanitation means the handling of garbage, refuse, and rubbish at
both pickup and disposal points in a manner that will prevent either undue
accumulation or scattering of such waste material.   
Stable Matter means all manure and other waste matter normally accumulated in
or about a stable, kennel, or veterinary clinic, and resulting from the keeping
of animals.
Trash and Garbage means all waste, animal and vegetable matter, rubbish, trash,
debris, ashes, tin cans and all other residential and commercial waste
materials generally, but specifically excluding hazardous wastes, appliances
containing Freon, batteries, earth or industrial waste, materials that
accumulate as the result of building operations or commercial building
alterations, trees or tree stumps, bricks and/or heavy concrete, or other bulky
wastes as defined herein.
Undue Accumulation means the accumulation of garbage, trash, or rubbish in
amounts exceeding the capacity of the waste receptacles provided for same at
the pickup point or at the point of disposal.
Utility Account means an account established in accordance with this Chapter
for the providing of sewer or sanitation services to a Person or Entity.
Yard waste means tree trimmings, shrubbery trimmings, grass cuttings, dead
plants, flowers, weeds, leaves, tree branches, wood chips, wood shavings, and
other similar organic wastes, but not including dirt, sand, sod, potting soil,
peat, rock, bricks, gravel, boulders, or other organic or inorganic landscaping
materials.
(Code 1976, 6-1-3; Ord. No. 520, 1, 11-7-95; Ord. No. 604, 07-05-2005; Ord. No.
628, §1, 08-07-2007)
Secs. 23-2--23-17. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
SANITATION SERVICES, SEWER SERVICES*
*Cross reference--Removal of accumulations of trash and weeds, 15-21 et seq.
Sec. 23-18. Superintendent of Sanitation Department.
   The Superintendent of the Sanitation Department shall be an employee of the
city and shall be responsible for the proper administration of recycling and
solid waste collection services and the proper operation and safeguarding of
all city-owned equipment, trucks, machines and property assigned to said
department, and shall have the immediate control thereof together with the
control of the personnel and/or independent contractors assigned thereto, to
effect the collection, transportation and delivery or disposal of solid wastes
and recyclables in a clean, sanitary and safe manner and in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1976, 6-1-2; Ord. No. 561, §2, 10-3-00)
Sec. 23-19. Responsibilities of Owner, Rental Agent, Entity, Persons;
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, rental agent, person, entity, other
person in charge or having control of real property, to rent any premises or
portion of a premises occupied by one (1) family or more than one (1) family or
permit the occupancy of any portion of such premises, unless the owner has
provided the services and complied with the provisions of this Chapter.
(Code 1976, 6-1-4; Ord. No. 628, §1, 08-07-2007)
Sec. 23-20. Duty to request/apply for service; Service required for all
producers.
   (a)   Any Person or Entity who owns a premises or real property to which
water service is or can be delivered, shall establish a sewer and sanitation
service account to pay for sewer and sanitation service to the premises. Any
Person or Entity to which sewer service and/or sanitation from the City is
available, shall make application to the office of the City Clerk or Utility
Billing Clerk. The application shall be signed by all persons or entities
having an ownership interest of record in the premises to be served. At the
discretion of the City Clerk or Utility Billing Clerk, the applicant for
services may be required to provide any or all of the following information:
   1.   The official address and legal description of the premises to be
served.
   2.   The name and address to be used for purposes of billing statements.
   3.   The service address previous utility services were provided to the
applicant.
   4.   Picture identification from a government entity.
   (b)   The applicant shall submit to the Utility Billing Clerk such proof of
ownership of the property to benefit from the sewer and sanitation service or
other personal and financial identification to the satisfaction of the Utility
Billing Clerk.
   (c)   In addition to the Utility Service Agreement provided herein, the
application shall also constitute and be construed as a continuing offer on the
part of the Customer to purchase and be responsible for the cost of sewer and
sanitation service from the City and provision of the sewer and sanitation
service or the availability of sewer and sanitation service shall be deemed
acceptance of the offer. The applicant shall be the Customer and shall be
responsible for payment of all sewer and sanitation service charges until the
Customer's Utilities Service Agreement is mutually terminated and the
responsibility for the service has been officially transferred by the City to a
new applicant notwithstanding the transfer of ownership of the property or
premise and the ability of the City to jointly or severally charge and collect
sewer and sanitation service charges from another Person or Entity. Acceptance
of a sewer or sanitation charge from one Person or Entity, which is not the
current applicant or Customer shall not waive the right of the City to collect
any other or additional sum due for sewer or sanitation service to said same
property or premise from the Person or Entity official listed as the applicant
or Customer.
   (d)   Upon satisfactory completion of the application and satisfaction all
other requirements for sewer and sanitation service, the Utility Account shall
be opened in the name of the applicant, thereafter, known as the Customer
unless:
   1.   The applicant is a Person or Entity who owes the City on a sewer or
sanitation services account for that premise or any other premises; or
   2.   The applicant is a Person or Entity who has failed to cure the breach
for which any sanitation or sewer service has been terminated pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter; or
   3.   Conditions exist at the premises for which sanitation or sewer services
were, will be, or would be terminated; provided, however, no Person or Entity
shall be denied service because of an outstanding obligation of another Person
or Entity, except an Entity which is a successor in interest to the obligor
Entity or acquired the obligor Entity.
The City reserves the right to deny service to anyone for any reason.
   (e)   If the application is accepted and a Utility Account is opened, the
Customer, which shall include all Persons or Entities having an ownership
interest in the premises to be served, shall execute a Utility Services
Agreement agreeing to be responsible for all charges for sewer and sanitation
services, miscellaneous utility service fees and ambulance subsidy fees
rendered to the premises in a form and manner approved by the Utility Billing
Clerk and which authorizes the attachment of a contractual lien on the property
or premises for any unpaid sewer or sanitation service charges, unpaid utility
service fees, and unpaid ambulance subsidy fees. The Utility Services Agreement
must be so executed prior to sewer or sanitation service being established.
(Ord. No. 637, §1, 02-03-2009)
   (f)   In the event an applicant is denied the right to establish sewer or
sanitation service, the Utility Billing Clerk shall give the applicant written
notice of the reasons for the denial and the right of the applicant to request
a hearing before the Utility Billing Clerk at which time the reasons for the
denial may be contested. If the denial is not rescinded by the Utility Billing
Clerk and the Utility Account not established, the applicant may request a
hearing before the City Manager who shall make a final determination as whether
or not to grant the application, and in appropriate circumstances, require
conditions for service that will assure all fees and charges for service to the
applicant's property will be timely paid.
   (g)   In all cases, the Owner of the premises to be benefited by sewer and
sanitation service shall be the Customer and responsible for all fees and
charges for sewer and sanitation services rendered to the premises. All owners,
whether buying or selling the premises served by sewer or sanitation service,
shall notify the City of the transfer of the ownership of the premises and that
the sewer and sanitation account is paid to the date of the transfer of title.
No Customer shall be relieved from any obligation for the payment of the
account until the date that a new application is approved, and an account is
established for a new Customer. Each Customer's obligation on the sewer or
sanitation account for services after the date of transfer shall terminate only
if the successor in ownership establishes a Utilities Account, which commences
on the date the prior Customer's obligation terminates and the City has been
notified in writing of the transfer ownership.
   (h)   The failure of any owner, rental agent, person, entity, or occupant of
any premises to take the actions enumerated in subsections (a) through (h)
above, shall not prevent or in any way impair or impede the Director from
adding the address of such premises to the proper solid waste collection route
records and providing such service and otherwise enforcing by appropriate
action the regulatory measures herein prescribed and causing the fee or charge
therefore to be paid.
   (i)   The Director or his designee shall be authorized to post a notice on
vacant or unoccupied properties advising new occupants of the requirements
enumerated in this section. It shall be unlawful for any owner, rental agent,
entity, person, or occupant of any posted premises to remove said notice
without first having established services as provided in this Chapter.
   (j)   Each producer shall post the required security deposits and pay for
sewer and solid waste collection services in accordance with rates and
regulations established by resolution of the council.
(Code 1976, 6-1-5; Ord. No. 520, 1, 11-7-95; Ord. No. 561, §3, 10-3-2000; Ord.
No. 628, §1, 08-07-2007; Ord. 637, §1, 02-03-2009)
Sec. 23-21. Littering.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit
or dump on any street, alley, or parking lot of the city or any private
property therein, garbage, rubbish, or refuse without placing the same in an
enclosed can or container, as provided in Section 23-23. (Code cross reference
12-57)
   (b)   No person shall deposit or dump any bulky waste, construction debris,
hazardous waste, stable matter or any other solid waste material on any street,
alley, or parking lot of the city or on any private property therein.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or lessee of any private property
located in the city to permit any garbage, rubbish, refuse, bulky waste,
construction debris, hazardous waste, stable matter or any other solid waste
material to be deposited or dumped on such private property or to remain
thereon, and such owner or lessee is required promptly to remove any such items
deposited or dumped on such private property.
(Code 1976, 6-1-7; Ord. No. 241, 1, 2, 4-18-78; Ord. No. 520, 1, 11-7-95)
Cross reference--Removal of accumulations of trash, 15-21 et seq.
Sec. 23-22. Burning.
   The burning of any, garbage, refuse and rubbish, carcasses of dead animals,
or other offensive or unwholesome matter is hereby prohibited. (Code cross
reference 10-25)
(Code 1976, 6-1-11)
Sec. 23-23. Carts, containers, plastic bags; excess wastes, brush, etc.
(a) The owners, occupants, or rental agents of all single-family residential
premises in the city:
   1)   Shall use carts provided by the city or its independent contractor as
the primary container for waste disposal or recycling and shall maintain said
carts in a sanitary and safe condition, including but not restricted to, the
prevention of waste accumulation in the bottom and side of said containers.
   2)   Shall keep the cover or lid of carts and containers closed at all times
to prevent blowing litter and the attraction of flies, insects, or rodents.
   3)   Except as provided in paragraph (4) below, shall store or keep all
carts either inside an enclosed garage or in that portion of the Side Yard
located behind the Front Building Line, as those terms are defined by Chapter
24, Section 24-1, or as close to that portion of the Side Yard located behind
the Front Building Line as possible. Carts kept or stored pursuant to this
subsection shall be stored or kept immediately adjacent to the house, garage,
or fence. Figure 1 and Figure 2 show general locations where carts should be
stored or kept pursuant to this paragraph.
   4)   If eligible for special house side service due to a head of household's
having (i) a handicap parking permit through the Oklahoma Department of Public
Safety or (ii) a doctor's certificate indicating physical inability to roll
polycarts to the curb, shall store or keep more all carts in a location
immediately adjacent to the house, garage, or a fence that is easily accessible
by sanitation workers in accordance with paragraph (b) below.
   5)   Shall not place carts, bulky waste, or any other waste out for
collection before 3:00 p.m. on the day before the designated collection day,
but no later than 6:00 a.m. on the collection day designated by the city.
   6)   Shall not allow carts, bulky waste, or any other waste to remain at
curbside or beyond the front building line after 8:00 a.m. on the day after the
designated collection day.
   7)   Shall not overfill any cart or plastic bag or place any cart or plastic
bag out for collection with contents exceeding the capacity of the cart or
plastic bag in terms of volume or weight. The weight limit for 95-gallon
container shall be 200 pounds. The weight limit for a 65-gallon container shall
be 150 pounds. The weight limit for a plastic bag shall be 35 pounds.
   8)   Shall not place in any cart or plastic bag any bulky wastes,
construction debris, stable matter, hazardous wastes, hot ashes, dirt, sand,
sod, rocks, or similar items that may damage the cart or collection equipment.
   9)   Shall not remove the cart from the premises to which it is assigned by
the city or its independent contractor.
   10)   Shall be responsible for damage to carts or containers furnished to
them by the City or its independent contractor and shall pay to the City the
cost of replacement of any such cart or container damaged by improper use
before a new cart or container is issued to the account.
(Ord. No. 723, §1, 03-20-2017)
   (b)   Placement of carts, bulky wastes for collection: The owners,
occupants, or residents of any premises served by carts may place carts out for
collection according to the following regulations. Additional regulations may
be established by resolution of the Council.
   1.   Curbside Service: Customers that receive curbside service shall place
carts at curbside by 6:00 a.m. on the designated pickup day. It shall be
unlawful to place any waste at curbside except in an approved cart, or except
as otherwise provided for herein.
   a.   Carts shall be placed at least five feet from mailboxes, gas meters,
cars, or shrubs or anything else that could interfere with loading by
mechanical equipment.
   b.   Carts placed at curbside must be at least three (3) feet apart.
   c.   All wastes shall be placed inside the cart and lids must be completely
closed in order to avoid spillage and problems with mechanical loading
equipment.
   2.   House Side Service: Customers that receive house side service shall
place the cart or carts out for collection on the designated pickup day.
   a.   It shall be unlawful to place any waste out for house side collection
except in the approved cart or carts.
   b.   Carts placed for collection pursuant to this subsection shall be stored
and placed out for collection in a location that complies with the provisions
of Section 23-23 (a) Subsections (3) and (4) or if within a fenced yard, at a
place near the front of said fenced yard.
   c.   If carts are within fenced yards, the gate shall not be locked or tied
shut and the area must be easily accessible by sanitation workers.
   d.   If a dog is kept in the back yard and the area is fenced, all carts
shall be placed outside the fenced area.
   e.   All wastes shall be placed inside the cart and lids must be completely
closed in order to avoid spillage and problems with mechanical loading
equipment.
   3.   Bulky Waste Service: Up to three (3) cubic yards of bulky waste as
defined in this Chapter may be placed at curbside by 6:00 am on the designated
collection day. It shall be unlawful to place bulky wastes at curbside more
than twenty-four (24) hours before said pickup day.
   a.   Items shall be placed at least five feet from mailboxes, gas meters,
cars, shrubs, or anything else that could interfere with hand loading or
mechanical equipment.
   b.   Items shall be placed at least ten feet away from utility poles, to
prevent contact with overhead power lines.
   c.   Bulky waste shall be in a size and length that will fit in the hopper
of the garbage truck.
   d.   Small items or loose items such as twigs, paper, grass, and other
similar items must be containerized in plastic bags or boxes so that they do
not spill.
   e.   All items placed for collection must be able to be lifted and handled
by two persons.
   f.   Types of bulky waste that can be placed for collection include, but are
not limited to, the following:
   i.   Household appliances,
   ii.   Water tanks,
   iii.   Furniture,
   iv.   Mattresses,
   v.   Cardboard boxes that are broken down and bundled.
   vi.   Trees, limbs, and wood scrap tied and in two feet by four feet (2' x
4") bundles and not weighing more than (35) pounds.
   vii.   Fencing (up to 4 panels). Fence panels must be cut in half.
   viii.   Containerized non-contracted remodeling waste such as leftovers from
do-it-yourself projects.
   ix.   Refrigerators and air conditioners provided they do not contain Freon.
Such items may be placed out for collection only if the compressor is removed
or the appliance has a sticker showing certified removal of the Freon.
   g.   It shall be unlawful to place any waste out for bulky waste collection
that is not defined as bulky waste herein including, but not limited to, the
following:
   1)   Hospital or medical waste or hazardous waste of any kind;
   2)   Poisons, acids and caustics, explosives;
   3)   Dirt, rocks, bricks, or concrete;
   4)   Sewage and liquid waste,
   5)   Nuclear materials.
   6)   Gasoline, kerosene, oils, and other fuels;
   7)   Propane tanks, degreasers, lubricants, brake fluid, antifreeze,
batteries, tires and rims, car batteries;
   8)   Sheet rock or roofing items;
   9)   Contracted construction, reconstruction, demolition, and repair waste.
(Ord. No. 604, 07-05-2005)
   (c)   Any polycart placed, kept, or maintained in violation of any provision
of this Section shall be subject to impoundment by the Sanitation
Superintendent and shall be returned to the service location from where it was
impounded upon the payment to the City Clerk an impoundment fee of twenty-five
dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. No. 635, §1, 01-06-2009)
Sec. 23-24. Unauthorized removal, transportation, deposit, or placement.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following without
permission of the superintendent of the sanitation department:
   (1)   Remove from any premise or premises situated in the city any garbage,
refuse, rubbish, or other offensive or unwholesome matter;
   (2)   Transport on streets, alleys, or public places any garbage, refuse and
rubbish, or other offensive matter;
   (3)   Deposit any garbage, refuse, or any other solid waste matter in any
cart or metallic container which has not been specifically assigned to the
depositor for disposal of wastes;
   (4)   Place for collection at any residence or business any waste that is
prohibited or restricted by this article.
   (5)   Place for collection at any residence or business garbage, refuse or
rubbish that has been generated at any location other than the residence or
business where the trash is placed for collection.
(Code 1976, 6-1-8; Ord. No. 420, 1, 5-2-1989; Ord. No. 520, 1, 11-7-1995)
Sec. 23-25. Sanitation and Sewer Rates and Charges.
   (a)   The rates and charges to be paid to the city for sanitation collection
and sewer service shall be as established by resolution of the city council.
   (b)   Sanitation and Sewer charges shall be billed in advance. If
residential garbage service is provided on Tuesday or Wednesday, billing shall
be on February 1, April 1, June 1, August 1, October 1, and December 1 of each
year. If residential garbage service is provided on Thursday and Friday,
billing shall be on January 1, March 1, May 1, July 1, September 1, and
November 1. The rates and charges for commercial sanitation and sewer service
shall accrue monthly and shall be paid in advance on the first of each month. A
late payment fee in the amount established by resolution shall be added to the
charges if the bill is not paid by the due date specified on the bill.
(Ord. No. 606 §1, 07-19-2005)
   (c)   Any person who has paid the sanitation and/or sewer bill in advance
and who moves from the premises that has been occupied, to another place
outside the city, leaving the premises unoccupied, shall be given a refund on a
pro rata basis for as many full weeks during which the premises will not be
occupied.
   (d)   Any person who is not in arrears in sanitation and sewer service
payments and who will be gone for one (1) month or more leaving the premises
unoccupied may, upon request prior to the absence, be credited with the
appropriate number of full weeks involved.
   (e)   The initiative for requesting the refund or credit provided for in
subsection (d) or (e) shall be with the person involved, and if the provisions
of such subsections are not strictly complied with, the City Treasurer may
refuse to make the refund or give the credit.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation that has not
entered into a Utility Services Agreement with the City to fail to pay the
charges for sanitation or sewer service after sixty (60) days from the date the
charges are due. The city clerk shall be authorized to discontinue service to
any person, firm, or corporation whose bill is more than sixty (60) days in
arrears. In the event of discontinuation of sanitation or sewer service, the
city clerk shall be authorized to charge a restoration fee in an amount
established by resolution. Service shall not be restored for the person, firm
or corporation until such bill is paid in full, including all applicable
penalties and charges, or until such time that suitable arrangements are made
for payment in full of the amount due.
   (g)   The City Clerk shall be authorized to require a utility deposit for
commercial sanitation and sewer service in an amount established by resolution.
The administration of a deposit fund shall be subject to regulations
established by resolution and applicable state law.
State law reference--11 O.S. 35-107.
(Code 1976, 6-1-9, 6-1-10; Ord. No. 231, 1(6-1-9c), 4-19-77; Ord. No. 265, 1,
9-18-79; Ord. No. 270, 1, 11-6-79; Ord. No. 349, 1, 8-7-84; Ord. No. 458, 1, 6-
18-91; Ord. No. 520, 1, 11-7-95; Ord. No. 604, 06-21-2005)
Sec. 23-26. Deposit of yard wastes.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, in person or
by agent, employee or servant, to cast, throw, sweep, blow or deposit in any
manner in or upon any public street, storm sewer, canal or drainage basin or
easement within the city any kind of yard waste, provided that this section
shall not apply to the deposit of yard wastes deposited upon said public place
in the necessary course of edging, mowing or raking any lawn or yard if removed
therefrom within one (1) hour after being so deposited.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, entity,
owner, occupant, renter, tenant, or person in charge of any property in the
City to allow grass or yard clippings or deposits to remain in the street or
gutter immediately adjacent to the property occupied by said owner, occupant,
renter, tenant, entity, or person in charge of said property unless removed
there from within one (1) hour of being so deposited.
(Ord. No. 411, §1, 8-16-1988; Ord. No. 520, §1, 11-7-1995; Ord. No. 628 § 1,
08-07-2007)
Sec. 23-27. Unauthorized Removal or Placement of Recyclable Materials.
(a)   No person or persons, other than the current resident of the property on
which recyclable materials are placed for collection, or an authorized carrier,
shall remove, pick up, or transfer recyclable materials in any area of the
city. Materials left at curbside in either specifically marked recovery
containers or any other type of container are to be picked up by a designated
carrier for the purpose of removal of recyclable materials. Materials referred
to, and to be left at curbside in specifically marked containers, will include
recyclable materials included in the City's recycling program.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for any occupant or owner of any residential
property to place recyclable materials at curbside for collection earlier than
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the regular collection day.
(c)   Recyclable materials placed for collection in the City recycling program
shall be placed at curbside by 6:00 a.m. on the designated collection day and
shall only be placed for collection in containers provided specifically for the
City's recycling program.
(Ord. No. 445, Section 1, 6-28-1990)
Secs. 23-28--23-53. Reserved.
Sec. 23-54. Disconnection of sewer for nonpayment.
   (a)   In the event a sewer service account shall be delinquent for more than
sixty (60) days, the City may, in addition to all other remedies available to
the City for collection of accounts, terminate the sewer service to the
described premises by entering the described premises, pursuant to the right of
ingress and egress granted by the Customer to the City in the Utility Service
Agreement, with all personnel and equipment necessary to accomplish the
disconnection of the sewer service line to the main sewer line belonging to the
City.
   (b)   Prior to termination of service by disconnection, the City shall serve
on the Customer no later than fourteen (14) days after the expiration of the
sixty (60) day delinquency period a written notice of its intent to disconnect
the sewer line serving the described premises. Service shall be in writing and
may be served by US Mail to the billing address of the Customer as it appears
on the billing records and as last provided by the Customer, in person or by
mailing and posting the notice on the premises. If the Customer fails to
respond or correct the delinquency within fourteen (14) days after notice is
served, the City may proceed with the disconnection as provided herein.
   (c)   A Customer who receives a termination notice is entitled to request a
hearing with the Billing Clerk to contest the validity of delinquency of the
account or other reason stated in the notice as the basis for the
disconnection. If, after a hearing before the Billing Clerk, a determination is
made that claim by the City of delinquency of the account is correct, the
Customer shall have five (5) business days to pay the account in full or the
City may proceed with the disconnection of the service line to the premises. If
the Customer continues to contest the accuracy of the claim of the City, the
disconnection of the service line may be stayed by the Customer by depositing
with the City an amount necessary to pay the account in full.
   (d)   The Customer shall have fourteen (14) days thereafter to seek further
relief by whatever legal means available to the Customer. In the event the
Customer prevails in any appeal, amounts determined not to be due the City
shall be returned or credited to the account of the Customer without interest.
Upon failure of the Customer to exercise such appeal rights within the time
authorized the City may apply any funds deposited by the Customer to the
Customer's account. Additionally, in the discretion of the City, the City may
proceed with the termination of service to the premises by disconnection of the
sewer service line or any other action authorized by this Chapter to collect
any charges or fees due and to protect the City from being further subject to
the risk of unpaid services.
   (e)   All disconnections shall be conducted during normal business hours.
When a disconnection of the sewer service line is accomplished by the City, the
line shall not be reconnected except at the expense of the Customer. In
addition, the Customer shall reimburse the City of the expense incurred by the
City in disconnecting and reconnecting the service line prior to reconnection.
Similarly, any new Customer shall bear the expense of reconnecting the service
line as a condition of establishing service.
   (f)   All rights and remedies available to the City pursuant to state law,
this Chapter, the Utility Service Agreement shall be cumulative and election by
the City to terminate the account by disconnection shall not prevent the City
from exercising all other rights and remedies it may have regarding the
collection of charges and amounts due for past services.
   
(Code 1976, §13-1-3; Ord. No. 628, §1, 08-07-2007)
Sec. 23-55. City not bound to provide sewer service.
   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as binding the City to agree to
continue any sewage service nor shall anything contained in this division
prevent the city from discontinuing sewage service when in the judgment of the
City the continuance of sewage service will interfere with the proper function
of the city's sanitary sewage facilities.
(Code 1976, §13-1-5; Ord. No. 628, §1, 08-07-2007)
Sec. 23-56. Service levels for commercial accounts to be adequate.
   Each commercial sanitation customer shall be required to establish a level
of service with the City that is adequate to meet the disposal needs of the
customer as determined by the Director. The Billing Clerk shall be authorized
to increase the number of pickups per week and/or the container size for any
customer in order to provide the service level deemed necessary by the Director
to adequately service the account. The Billing Clerk shall bill the customer
for the costs of service in accordance with rates established by resolution of
the Council. (2014 Code)
Secs. 23-57-23-75 Reserved.
ARTICLE III
UTILITY SERVICE AGREEMENT; LIEN; BILLING
Sec. 23-76. Purpose.
   (a)   The following regulations as adopted by the City of The Village,
Oklahoma are published for the information and guidance of all users of the
public sewer system and sanitation services of the City and are declared to be
part of the contract for services between the City and the Owner of premises
where sewer and sanitation service is furnished.
(Ord. No. 628, §1, 08-07-2007)
Sec. 23-77. Contractual Lien.
   a)   The sewer and sanitation service charges and utility service fees
levied and assessed by this Chapter as well as ambulance subsidy fees
authorized by Chapter 18, Section 18-117, shall be payable for each lot, parcel
of land, building or other premises, whether occupied or vacant, within or
without The Village corporate limits, having a connection with the sanitary
sewer system of the City and/or having sanitation services. By submitting an
application and establishing an account, the Customer consents to a contract
for services which includes the provisions of this Chapter and into which the
provisions of this Chapter are deemed incorporated by reference. Any charge for
sewer or sanitation service, miscellaneous utility services authorized by this
chapter and ambulance subsidy fees authorized by Chapter 18, Section 18-117 to
such premises, which are not paid in full when due shall become a contractual
lien against the premises serviced by the connection with the City's sanitary
sewer system. The terms of the granting of the lien and the rights of the
parties shall be set forth in the application and Utility Service Agreement,
which shall be executed by the Customer and shall be a binding contract between
the Customer and the City. The granting of the lien shall be subject to all
applicable provisions of Title 31 O.S. § 1 (A) concerning homestead and
exemption rights of the Customer.
   b)   By directly or indirectly accepting sewer or sanitation service or the
benefit or enhancement of sewer or sanitation service or the availability of
sewer or sanitation service from the City, the Customer shall agree to pay for
such service and all associated utility service and ambulance subsidy fees, and
agree such charges shall be charged or imposed on the property and shall be a
continuing lien on the property, paramount and superior to all liens or other
subsequent obligations of the Customer secured by the property, from the date
the City's lien is recorded with the Oklahoma County Clerk.
(Ord. No. 628, §1, 08-07-2007; Ord. No. 637, §2, 02-03-2009)
Sec. 23-78. Billing and Collection.
   a)   The Utility Billing Clerk of the City of The Village shall be
responsible for the billing and collection of sanitary sewer and sanitation
charges, which shall be assessed, levied, and collected in conjunction with the
administration of the charges for sewer and sanitation service supplied by the
City. The same shall be subject to and governed by the valid and applicable
rules and regulations from time to time established by the City with respect to
the collection of sewer and sanitation charges. The sanitary sewer and
sanitation charges shall be a lien upon all real property served by the City.
The Billing Clerk shall, in accordance with regulations established by the
City, determine the amount of delinquent sanitary sewer and sanitation charges,
together with all other fees, charges and sums authorized by law, contract, or
this Chapter and file with the Oklahoma County Clerk a lien on the real
property pursuant to the contractual lien granted to the City under the Utility
Services Agreement executed by the Owner of the premises served and shall be
collected in the same manner as other liens. Upon payment in full to the City
of delinquent sanitary sewer and sanitation charges and fees, together with all
other costs and fees authorized by this ordinance that have been secured by a
lien filed with the Oklahoma County Clerk, the Billing Clerk shall file with
the Oklahoma County Clerk an appropriate release of the lien.
(Ord. No. 628, §1, 08-07-2007)
Sec. 23-79. Interest, Attorney fees and costs.
   a)   Unless otherwise provided in the Utility Service Agreement, the
Customer agrees that delinquent accounts shall accrue interest on the unpaid
balance until paid in full in an amount equal to the statutory rate of interest
or the rate of interest on judgments as established by the Supreme Court,
whichever shall be the greater. In addition, the City shall be entitled to
recover reasonable attorney's fees and costs incurred in the event collection
efforts are required to recover sums due on accounts. Interest, attorney's
fees, and other cost may be included in and secured by the lien filed against
the property as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 628, §1, 08-07-2007)
Sec. 23-80. Applicability.
   (a)   From and after the effective date of this Ordinance, any accounts
existing on the effective date of this Ordinance which become delinquent two
times, new accounts for sewer or sanitation service, including existing
accounts being transferred to a different Person or Entity or to a different
location, or any other action resulting in a change in an account shall require
execution of a Utility Service Agreement and be subject to the provisions of
this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 628, §1, 08-07-2007)
CHAPTER 24
ZONING
Art. I.   Administration and Enforcement
   
Div. 1.   Generally, §24-1--§24-20
   
Div. 2.   Planning and Zoning Commission, §24-21--§24-40
   
Div. 3.   Board of Adjustment, §24-41--§24-60
   
Div. 4.   Amendments, §24-61--§24-75
   
Div. 5.   Nonconformances, §24-76--§24-95
Art. II.   Zoning Districts Established; Zoning Map, §24-96--§24-125
Art. III.      District Regulations, §24-126--§24-150
   
Div. 1.   A-1 Single-family Residential, §24-151--§24-165
   
Div. 2.   C-1 Restricted Commercial, §24-166--§24-185
   
Div. 3.   C-2 Commercial District, §24-186--§24-189
   
Div. 4.   Planned Unit Developments, §24-200--§24-249
Art. IV.   Off-street Parking and Loading, §24-250--§24-274
Art V.   Building Design Standards, §24-300--§24-
   
Div. 1.   Single, Two, Three and Four Family Residential Buildings, §24-300--
§24-304.
   
Div. 2.   Multifamily, Commercial, Office, Public, Institutional and Mixed-Use
Buildings, §24-325--§24-334.
   
Div. 3.   Industrial Buildings, §24-350-- §24-358.
Art VI.   Site Design Standards, §24-400--§24-404
   
Div. 1.   Nonresidential Sites, §24-400--§24-404
Cross references--Buildings and building regulations,
Chapter. 6; Art. IX, Parking;
Chapter 13; signs,
Chapter 20; Subdivision regulations,
Chapter 25.
State law reference--Municipal zoning, 11 O.S. §43-101 et seq.
ARTICLE I. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 24-1. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Accessory building means a building customarily incidental and appropriate and
subordinate to the principal use of land or buildings located upon the same
premises. Accessory buildings include, but are not limited to, carports,
storage buildings, temporary or portable buildings, detached garages, cabanas,
gazebos, detached covered patios, and tornado shelters.
Accessory use means a use customarily incidental, appropriate, and subordinate
to the principal use of land or buildings located upon the same premises.
Accessory structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground, attachment to something having a
permanent location on the ground, or, except as may otherwise be permitted
under other provisions of The Village Code of Ordinances, any non-permanent
structure remaining constructed or erected for a period greater than ten (10)
days. Accessory structures shall not include any accessory building as defined
herein which is subordinate to the principal use of the property upon which it
is located. Accessory structures include, but are not limited to, wind
generation towers or structures, alternative energy devices, radio or
television transmission or reception towers, satellite reception antennas,
swimming pools, flag poles, basketball goals, tents, gardening trellises, and
retaining walls. (Ord. No. 670, §1, 08-02-2021)
Advertising sign or structure means any cloth, card, paper, metal, painted,
glass, wooden, plastic, plaster, stone sign or other sign, device, or structure
of any character whatsoever, including statuary, placed outdoors for
advertising purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, fence,
building or structure. The term "placed" shall include erecting, constructing,
posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving, or
otherwise fastening, affixing, or making visible in any manner whatsoever. The
area of an advertising structure other than a sign shall be determined as the
area of the largest cross- section of such structure. Directional, warning, or
other signs posted by public officials in the course of their public duties or
merchandise or materials being offered for sale shall not be construed as being
advertising signs.
Alley means a public passage or way affording a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
Apartment house means a multiple-family dwelling.
Arcade means a covered passageway, which may be exposed on one side. A series
of disconnected canopies or awnings is not an arcade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2895.png]
 
Area regulations means the provisions of this chapter that establish for each
zoning district the regulations pertaining to the frontage, street access,
front yard, side yard, rear yard, open space, intensity of use, lot area, lot
width, and height as well as regulations pertaining to accessory buildings and
accessory structures.
Automobile means a self-propelled mechanical vehicle designed for the use on
streets and highways for the conveyance of goods and people including but not
limited to, passenger cars, trucks, busses, motor scooters and motorcycles.
Automobile service station means any area of land, including any structure
thereon, that is used primarily for the sale of automotive fuels (except butane
or propane), and which may include facilities for the sale of automotive
accessories or fluids, foods and beverages and other goods, as well as
facilities for lubricating, washing, cleaning, or otherwise servicing
automobiles, but not including the painting thereof.
Automobile wash or laundry means a structure designed primarily for washing
automobiles either manually or using production line methods with a chain
conveyor, blower, steam cleaner, high-pressure spray, or other mechanical
device.
Automobile wrecking or salvage yard means an area outside of a building where
motor vehicles are disassembled, dismantled, junked, or wrecked, or where motor
vehicles not in operable condition or used parts of motor vehicles are stored.
Awning means a cloth, plastic, or other nonstructural covering that project
from a wall for the purpose of shielding a doorway or window. An awning is
either permanently attached to a building or can be raised or retracted to a
position against the building when not in use.
Awnings (above windows)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2893.png]
 
Basement means a story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a basement shall be counted as a story when more than one-half of
its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground or when
subdivided and used for commercial or dwelling purposes by other than a janitor
employed on the premises.
Billboard means any cloth, card, paper, metal, painted, glass, wooden, plastic,
plaster, stone sign or other sign, device, or structure of any character
whatsoever, including statuary, placed outdoors for advertising purposes on the
ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post, fence, building or structure.
The term "placed" shall include erecting, constructing, posting, painting,
printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving, or otherwise fastening,
affixing, or making visible in any manner whatsoever. The area of an
advertising structure other than a sign shall be determined as the area of the
largest cross- section of such structure. Neither directional, warning, or
other signs posted by public officials in the course of their public duties nor
merchandise or material being offered for sale shall be construed as
advertising signs.
Building means any structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of
persons, animals, or chattel. When separated by dividing walls without
openings, each portion of such structure so separated shall be deemed a
separate structure.
Building coverage means the percentage of the lot area covered by the building.
The building area shall include all overhanging roofs.
Building height means the vertical distance from the average line of the
highest and lowest points of that portion of the lot covered by the building to
the highest point of coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof,
or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
Building, main means a building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated. In any residential district any detached dwelling
shall be deemed to be the main building on the lot on which it is situated.
Building mass means the tree-dimensional bulk of a building height, width, and
depth.
Building site means a single parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied
by a building or structure.
Canopy means a roof structure constructed of rigid materials, attached to, and
supported by a building, or which is freestanding and supported by columns,
poles, or braces extended to the ground.
Carport means a permanent roofed structure permanently open on at least two (2)
sides, designed for or occupied by private passenger vehicles.
Childcare center shall mean any day childcare, nursery, nursery school, foster
home, or preschool or any place, home or institution located in any residential
or commercial district, which meets the requirements provided for same in
Chapter 11 of this code.
Church means a building or buildings used for the gathering of people for the
study or worship of religious beliefs, and/or fellowship, and provided it has
(1) direct and primary means of ingress and egress from Britton Road, Hefner
Road, May Avenue, or Pennsylvania Avenue, and (2) has a minimum lot size of two
(2) acres. A synagogue, mosque, or temple shall be considered a church.
Clinic, dental or medical means a facility for the examination and treatment of
ill and afflicted human out-patients; provided, however, that patients are not
kept overnight except under emergency conditions, including but not limited to
dental and doctor's offices.
Concrete masonry unit, or CMU, means manufactured architectural concrete
masonry, split face block, split scored block, fluted, block, ribbed masonry
units and ground face masonry units. These units are manufactured under
controlled conditions in a variety of colors and combinations.
Convalescent home, rest home, nursing home means a health facility where
persons are housed and furnished with meals and continuing nursing care for
compensation.
Corbel means a bracket supporting a superincumbent object or receiving the
spring of an arch. A common form of corbel consists of courses of stones or T-
1-11s, each projecting slightly beyond the next below it.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2891.png]
 
Corbel
Cornice means a decorative overhang or molding located at the junction where a
roof overhangs exterior wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2889.png]
 
Cornice
Corporate Office Complex means a non-retail commercial office building or
series of buildings designed in the same or similar design motifs housing the
corporate headquarters of a private company and designed for at least 1,000
full-time employees. (Ord. No. 750. §1, 10-21-2019)
Court means an open unoccupied space, other than a yard on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings and which is bordered on two (2) or more sides
by such building or buildings.
Court, inner means a court other than an outer court. The length of an inner
court is the minimum horizontal dimension measured parallel to its longest
side. The width of an inner court is the minimum horizontal dimension measured
at right angles to its length.
Court, outer means a court in full width of which opens onto a required yard,
or street or alley. The width of an outer court is the minimum horizontal
dimension measured in the same general direction as the yard, street, or alley
upon which the court opens. The depth of an outer court is the minimum
horizontal dimension measured at right angles to its width.
Detailing (architectural) means architectural or structural design elements
that focus on decorative elements of a small section of a comprehensive
building design.
District, zoning means any section of the city for which regulations governing
use of buildings and premises or the height and area of buildings are uniform.
Drive-in restaurant means any establishment where food, frozen dessert and/or
beverage is sold to the consumer and where motor vehicle parking space is
provided and where such food, frozen dessert and/or beverage is intended to be
consumed in the motor vehicle parked upon the premises or anywhere on the
premises outside of the building.
Dry cleaning or laundry, self-service means any attended or unattended place,
building or portion thereof, available to the general public for the purpose of
washing, drying, extracting moisture from, or dry-cleaning wearing apparel,
cloth, fabrics, and textiles of any kind by means of a mechanical appliance,
which is operated primarily by the customer.
Dwelling means any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used as
living quarters for one (1) or more families, but not including house trailers,
mobile homes, or travel trailers.
Dwelling, accessory means an accessory building detached from the main building
on a lot on which it is situated, or an accessory use attached to the main
building on the same premises, designed and constructed as an independent
dwelling from the principal use of land or buildings located on the same
premises. (2022 Code)
Dwelling attached means a dwelling having any portion of each of two (2) walls
in common with adjoining dwellings.
Dwelling detached means a dwelling having open space on all sides.
Dwelling, multiple family means a dwelling designed for occupancy by three (3)
or more families living independently of each other, exclusive of hotels or
motels.
Dwelling, row house or townhouse means three (3) or more dwelling units
attached at the side or sides, each unit of which has a separate outdoor
entrance and is designed to be occupied and may be owned by one (1) family.
Dwelling, single-family means an attached dwelling designed to be occupied by
one (1) family.
Dwelling, two-family means a dwelling designed to be occupied by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
Eave means a roof edge that extends out past the exterior wall line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2887.png]
 
Eave
Façade means the sides of a building that face a street, drive, or other open
space.
Façade, front means the front or principal face of a building, generally
defined by the location of the majority of the public entrances into the
building.
Family shall mean a number of persons in an immediate family who are either
related by blood, marriage, adoption, guardianship, or other duly authorized
custodial relationship and who are living together as a single housekeeping
unit and share common living, sleeping, cooking, and eating facilities. For the
purposes of this section immediate family means spouse, parents and
grandparents, children and grandchildren, brothers and sisters, mother-in-law
and father-in-law, brothers in law and sisters in law, daughters in law and
sons in law.
Fascia means a vertical surface that spans across the top of columns or across
the top of a wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2885.png]
 
Roll-formed metal fascia.
Fence means an accessory structure which constitutes a barrier that serves to
enclose an area, and which may impede or partially impede a view, or impede or
partially impede free movement from one property to another, or from one
portion of a property to another, and which is constructed in conformance with
specifications and restrictions provided for by this chapter and other
applicable building codes. Code reference - Section 24-154(A)(g).
Fenestration means the arrangement and design of windows and doors in a
building.
Floor area, gross means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all of the
floors of a building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls or from the center line of walls separating two (2) buildings, and
including but not limited to, the following spaces:
   1)   Basements;
   2)   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
   3)   Floor space for mechanical equipment with structural headroom of seven
(7) feet or more;
   4)   Penthouses;
   5)   Attic space providing head room of seven (7) feet or more;
   6)   Interior balconies, mezzanines and enclosed porches and enclosed steps;
   7)   Accessory uses in enclosed covered space, but not including space used
for off-street parking.
Floor area, net means the total floor area within a building devoted or
intended to be devoted to a particular use, with structural headroom of seven
(7) feet or more, whether above or below the finished lot grade, excluding:
   1)   Elevators, stairwells, hallways, walls, and partitions, and
   2)   Floor space permanently devoted to a parking space or parking spaces,
mechanical equipment, closets, washrooms, or other items permanently preventing
the floor space from being occupied by persons while engaged in the use.
Floor area ratio means a mathematical expression determined by dividing the
gross floor area of a building by the area of the lot on which it is located.
Front building line means a line extending from side property line to side
property line and being the minimum horizontal distance between the front
property line and the front of the main building or any projections thereof
other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed porches.
Garage, private means any accessory building or a part of a main building used
for storage purposes only for automobiles used solely by the occupants and
their guests of the building to which it is accessory.
Garage, public means any garage other than a private garage, available to the
public, used for the care or servicing of automobiles where such vehicles are
parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale.
Garage, repair means a building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair or equipping of automobiles.
Gross floor area means the sum of the gross horizontal area of all the floors
of a building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls
or from the centerline walls separating two (2) buildings, and including but
not limited to the following spaces:
   1)   Basements;
   2)   Elevator shafts;
   3)   Floor space and stairwells at each floor for mechanical equipment with
structural headroom of seven (7) feet;
   4)   Penthouses;
   5)   Attic space providing headroom of seven (7) feet or more;
   6)   Interior balconies, mezzanines and enclosed porches and enclosed steps;
   7)   Accessory uses in enclosed covered space, but not including space used
for off-street parking.
Home association means an incorporated non-profit organization operating under
recorded land agreements through which:
   1)   Each lot and/or homeowner in a planned unit or other described land
area is automatically a member; and
   2)   Each lot is automatically subject to a charge for proportionate share
of the expense for the organization's activities, such as maintaining of common
property; and
   3)   The charge if unpaid becomes a lien against the property.
Home occupation means an occupation or profession conducted in a residential
dwelling by the lawful occupants thereof and which occupation is carried out in
conformance with all applicable codes and regulations provided for herein.
Home Sharing Accessory Use means lodging accommodations that are provided in a
dwelling or room(s) in a dwelling for rent for a period not less than 2 and not
to exceed more than 30 consecutive days per renter/guest, and where the
dwelling is the primary residence of the host.
Home Sharing Principal Use means lodging accommodations that are provided in a
dwelling or room(s) in a dwelling for rent for a period not less than 2 and not
to exceed more than 30 consecutive days per renter/guest, and where the
dwelling is not the primary residence of the host.
Hospital means an institution providing health services primarily for human
inpatient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities, central service facilities and staff offices, which are an integral
part of the facilities.
Kennel means any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs or cats, more
than six (6) months of age are kept.
Lot means any plat of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one building,
or a group of buildings, and the permitted accessory buildings, accessory
structures, and accessory uses, including such open spaces as required by laws
or ordinance, and having its principal frontage on a street.
Lot area means the total horizontal area included within lot lines.
Lot, corner means a lot of which at least two (2) adjacent sides abut for their
full lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection
of such two (2) sides is less than one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees.
Lot, depth means an average distance from the street line of the lot to its
rear line, measured in the general direction of the sidelines of the lot.
Lot, double frontage means a lot having a frontage on two (2) non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
Lot, frontage means that dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
Lot, interior means a lot other than a corner lot. Lot lines means the lines
bounding a lot.
Lot split means to divide a legally platted lot into one or more lots.
Masonry means construction composed of small units of bricks or blocks made
from stone, clay, concrete, tile, and similar materials, and stone and cement-
based products that match the appearance of natural stone. Masonry units are
usually joined by cement mortar mixture. Masonry does not include Exterior
Insulation Finishing System (EIFS), tilt-up/precast concrete panels, or fiber-
cement siding, but does include cement stucco.
Mixed use means the lawful use of land in which said land is used for more than
one purpose or occupancy and where all such uses are permitted in the district
in which the land is located.
Mobile home means a portable or mobile living unit used or designed for human
occupancy on a permanent basis.
Mullion means a structural element that divides adjacent window units or panes.
Nonconformance means a lawful condition of a structure or land, which does not
conform to the use, area, or other regulations of the district in which it is
situated. This may include, but is not limited to, failure to conform to use,
height, area, coverage, or off-street parking requirements.
Nonconforming building means a lawful condition of a structure which does not
conform to the area, height, off-street parking, or other regulations of the
district in which it is situated.
Nonconforming use means a structure or land lawfully occupied by a use, which
is not, a use authorized by the district regulations in which is it situated.
Parapet means a lot wall or railing built along the edge or roof or a floor.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2883.png]
 
Parapet wall topped by decorative brickwork and coping
Parking space means a permanently surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed, of
sufficient size to store one (1) automobile together with a permanently
surfaced driveway connecting the parking space with a street or alley and
permitting ingress or egress of an automobile.
Pilaster means a square column, partly built into, but partly projecting from a
wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2881.png]
 
Pilasters
Planned unit development means a development planned in accordance with the
provisions of Article III, Division 4 of this chapter and includes cluster
housing, planned residential and nonresidential development, community unit
plan, and other zoning requirements which are designed to accomplish the
objectives of a comprehensive plan and the zoning code provided herein through
a land development project review process based on the application of site
planning criteria to achieve integration of the proposed land development
project with the characteristics of the project area.
Plat means a survey made on behalf of any person intending to lay out an
addition or subdivision to the city which describes and sets forth all streets,
alleys, easements, common or public grounds, all lots and blocks, and
fractional lots within or adjoining the land being platted and which gives
their names, widths, courses, boundaries, and extent.
Portico means a colonnade or covered ambulatory at the entrance to a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2879.png]
 
Portico
Residential sale means any sale of what is held out to be or is commonly known
as a garage, porch, room, backyard or patio sale or any other type of general
sale conducted from or on any premises not located in a zoning district which
permits such sales, where goods or articles of any type are held out for sale
to the public. "Residential sale" shall not include a situation where specific
items are held out for sale and all advertisement of such sale specifically
names the items to be sold.
Retail business means a business where goods or commodities are offered for
sale to the ultimate consumer of such goods or commodities. For the purpose of
this chapter, restaurants, automobile dealerships, and automotive repair shops,
shall not be considered retail businesses.
Restaurant. Any place kept, used, maintained, or held out for the public where
meals or food is prepared, cooked, and served either on or off the premises
thereby emitting smoke, grease, odor, or vapors outside the premises and
requiring an appropriate ventilation device or system due to the use of grills,
stoves, ovens, broilers, fryers, or other similar types of equipment.
Restaurant as herein defined shall not be deemed to be a retail use as herein
provided for.
Reveal means the side of an opening for a window, doorway, or the like, between
the door frame or window frame and the outer surface of the wall, or where the
opening is not filled with a door.
Sanatorium means an institution providing health facilities for inpatient
medical treatment or treatment and recuperation using natural therapeutic
agents.
Seasonal sale means the sale, of merchandise such as, but not limited to,
Christmas Trees, pumpkins, and poinsettias by a charitable or nonprofit
organization for a limited period of time.
Setback means the minimum required yard depth measured from the lot line to the
main building.
Single-family dwelling means a dwelling where only one (1) family as defined
herein may lawfully reside provided that a maximum of four (4) persons who are
not members of a family as defined herein shall be permitted to reside in any
single- family dwelling and provided further that in no instance shall there be
more than one (1) occupant per two hundred (200) square feet of living area in
any single-family dwelling.
Reference - International Fire Code)
Site development plan means a plan drawn at a scale of not less than fifty (50)
feet equals one (1) inch which shows the topographic characteristics of the
site at a contour interval of not less than one (1) foot; the location and
dimensions of buildings, yards, courts, landscape, pedestrian and vehicular
circulation and parking, fences and screening; service areas and courts and
other features; the use of each building and area; the height of buildings;
adjacent streets, alleys, utility drainage and other easements; and the
relationship of the development to adjacent areas which it may affect.
Special exception means the approval of a specific use of property that is not
specifically authorized in the zoning district where such property is located,
and which is granted by the board of adjustment.
Specific Use means a use that is specifically listed as an authorized use
within a zoning district, and which may be authorized only through approval of
a specific use permit. Any reference in this chapter to "special use" shall be
construed to mean "specific use."
Specific Use Permit means a permit for a use approved by the City Council
pursuant to Section 24-25 and Section 24-26 of this chapter, and after notice
and a hearing and preliminary review and recommendation of the Planning &
Zoning Commission. Any reference in this chapter to "special use permit" shall
be construed to mean "specific use permit."
Story means that portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if
there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
Story, half means a space under a sloping roof, which has the line of
intersections of roof decking and wall face not more than three (3) feet above
the top floor level and in which space not more than two-thirds of floor area
is finished off for use. A half- story containing independent apartment or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
Street means any public or private thoroughfare, which affords the principal
means of access to abutting property.
Street, intersecting means any street, which joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other.
Structural alterations mean any change in the supporting members of building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attached to something having a location on the
ground.
Trailer, hauling means a vehicle to be pulled behind an automobile or truck,
which is designed for hauling animals, produce, goods or commodities, including
boats.
Trailer, travel, or camping means a portable or mobile living unit used for
temporary human occupancy away from the place of residence of the occupants,
and not constituting the principal place of residence of the occupants and
containing less than one hundred seventy-five (175) square feet of floor area.
Unit means any building or portion thereof, which is designed or used as living
quarters for one family.
Variance means the waiving or altering of a specific zoning district area
regulation, and which is granted by the board of adjustment.
Yard means an open space at grade between a main building and the adjoining lot
lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the
ground upward except where otherwise specifically provided in this chapter. In
measuring for the purpose of determining the width of the side yard or the
depth of a rear yard, the least horizontal distance between the lot line and
the main building shall be used. In measuring for the purpose of determining
the depth of a front yard, the depth shall vary depending on the distance
between the front property line and the main building or any projection
thereof, other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed porches.
Yard, front means a yard located in front of the front elevation of a main
building and extending across a lot between the side yard lines and being the
horizontal distance between the front property line and the main building or
any projection thereof, other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed
porches.
Yard, rear means a yard extending across the rear of a lot measured between the
side yard lines and being the horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps, unenclosed
balconies, or unenclosed porches. On corner lots the rear yard shall be
considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall in all
cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
Yard, side means a yard between the main building and sideline of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main building
or any projections other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed
porches.
(Code 1976, Title 12, Article 8; Ord. No. 288, §1, 4-21-81; Ord. No. 380, §1,
4-21-87; Ord. No. 418, §1, 3-21-89; Ord. No. 465, §3, 1-23-92; Ord. No. 461,
§§1,2, 11-5-91; Ord. No. 497, §§1,2, 3-1-94; Ord. No. 463, §1, 12-3-91; Ord.
No. 505 §2, 9-20-94; Ord. No. 596 §1, 10-19-04; Ord. No. 740 §1, 10-15-2018)
Sec. 24-2. Interpretation.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate or annul any ordinance,
rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued, pursuant to law
relating to the use of buildings of premises, and likewise not in conflict with
this chapter, nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate
or annul any easement, covenants, restrictions or other agreements between
parties; except that if this chapter imposes a greater restriction, this
chapter shall control.
(Code 1976, §12-9-2)
State law reference--Governing law in case of conflicts, 11 O.S. §43-108.
Sec. 24-3. Governing act in case of conflict.
   Whenever the provisions of a statute, ordinance or regulation require a
greater width or size of yards, courts, or other open spaces, or require a
lower height of building or less number of stories or require a greater
percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose higher standards than any
other applicable statute, ordinance, or regulation, then the provisions of the
statute, ordinance or regulation which impose higher standards or greater
restrictions shall govern.
Sec. 24-4. Chapter not to legalize violations.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as authorization for or
approval of the continuance of the use of a building or premises in violation
of this chapter except as expressly provided for herein.
(Code 1976, §12-7-7; Ord. No. 596, §2, 10-19-2004)
Sec. 24-5. Injunctive relief.
   If any building, structure or land is in violation of any municipal
ordinance or other regulation, the building inspector or other person
designated by the city, or any other person affected thereby, in addition to
other remedies, may institute appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance, or use to restrain, correct or abate such violation,
to prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land, to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, or business or use in or about the premises.
(Code 1976, §§12-2-2, 12-9-3)
State law reference--injunctive relief, 11 O.S. §43-107
Sec. 24-6. Application of building codes.
   It is intended that the requirements in Chapter 6 of this Code shall govern
the construction of all main buildings, accessory buildings, structures, and
accessory structures.
(Ord. No. 333, §6, 10-18-83; Ord. No. 505, §2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 24-7. Enforcement officer.
   This chapter shall be enforced by a building inspector appointed by the city
manager. The building inspector may issue citations for violations of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1976, §§12-2-1, 12-5-2; Ord. No. 283, §1, 8-5-80)
Sec. 24-8. Purpose of regulations - comprehensive plan.
(a)   Regulations contained in this chapter shall be designed to accomplish any
of the following objectives:
(1)   To lessen congestion in the streets;
(2)   To secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers;
(3)   To promote health and the general welfare;
(4)   To provide adequate light and air;
(5)   To prevent the overcrowding of land;
(6)   To promote historical preservation;
(7)   To avoid undue concentration of population; or
(8)   To facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage,
schools, parks, and other public requirements.
(9)   To eliminate and prevent the development or spread of blight, to
encourage needed rehabilitation, and to provide for the redevelopment of
blighted areas in accordance with priorities and areas designated from time to
time. (Ord. No. 622, §1, 10-31-2006)
(b)   The regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among other
things, as to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the municipality. The
city council shall provide the manner in which regulations, restrictions and
district boundaries shall be determined, established, and enforced, and
amended, supplemented, or changed.
Sec. 24-9. Penalty.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class B offense and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed two hundred
($200.00) dollars. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
Secs. 24-10--24-20. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
Sec. 24-21. Created.
There is hereby created a planning and zoning commission.
(Code 1976, § 12-1-1)
State law reference--zoning commission required, 11 O.S. § 43-109; Planning
Commission authorized, 11 O.S. § 45-101 et. seq.
Sec. 24-22. Membership.
   (a)   The planning and zoning commission shall consist of seven (7) members
appointed by the city council, all of which shall reside in the city.
   (b)   The members shall be nominated by the mayor and confirmed by the city
council.
   (c)   Each member shall serve for a term of three (3) years without
compensation.
   (d)   When the commission is first appointed, the terms of three (3) of the
members shall be for three (3) years, two (2) for two (2) years, and two (2)
for one (1) year.
   (e)   Appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the un-expired terms only.
   (f)   The commission shall elect a chairman from its membership.
   (g)   Any commission member who is absent for three (3) consecutive meetings
or more than half the meetings in any calendar year, shall automatically cease
to be a commission member.
(Code 1976, §§ 12-1-1, 12-1-2)
(Ord. No. 383, §1, 5-19-87; Ord. No. 505, §2, 9-20-94; Ord. No. 681, §1, 03-05-
2013).
State law reference--planning and zoning commission membership, 11 O.S. § 45-
102)
Sec. 24-23. Meetings.
   (a)   Four (4) members of the planning and zoning commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, provided, however, that no
action shall be taken as binding upon the commission unless concurred in by not
less than a majority of all the members present. All actions of the commission
shall be reported to the council.
   (b)   The planning and zoning commission shall be subject to the open
meeting laws of this state and all meetings, deliberations and voting of the
commission shall be open to the public.
   (c)   The commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, which shall be immediately filed in the office of the city clerk and
shall be a public record.
(Code 1976, § 12-1-5; Ord. No. 505, §2, 9-20-94)
State law reference--planning and zoning commission generally, 11 O.S. § 45-101
et seq.
Sec. 24-24. Duties and powers.
   (a)   The planning and zoning commission shall prepare from time-to-time
plans for the betterment of the city as a place of residence or for business.
It may consider and investigate any subject matter tending to the development
and betterment of the city and make recommendations as it may deem advisable
concerning the adoption thereof, to any department of the city, and for any
purpose make or cause to be made surveys, maps, or plans. The commission shall
have the power and authority to employ engineers, attorneys, clerks and
secretary or any other help deemed necessary, subject to the approval of the
city council. The necessary expenses incurred by the commission shall be
approved and paid out of the city treasury as other legal expenses of the city,
but in no event may the planning and zoning commission be authorized to create
a deficiency.
   (b)   The planning and zoning commission shall cooperate with the zoning and
planning commissions for the City of Nichols Hills and the City of Oklahoma
City in connection with the planning for areas adjacent to and beyond the
corporate limits of this city.
   (c)   Before final action is taken by the city or any department thereof on
the location and design of the any public building, statue, memorial, park,
parkway, boulevard, street, alley, playground, alley, or grade thereof, the
question shall first be submitted to the planning and zoning commission for
review and report.
   (d)   All plans, plats, or replats of land laid out in lots or blocks and
the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to
the public or for private use within the corporate limits of the city, shall
first be submitted to the planning and zoning commission for its approval or
rejection. Before such plans, plats or replats shall be entitled to be recorded
in the office of the county clerk they shall be approved by the city council.
It shall be unlawful to offer and cause to be recorded any such plan, plat, or
replat in any public office unless the same shall bear thereon, by endorsement
or otherwise, the approval of the city council. Any plat filed without the
endorsed approval of the city council shall not import notice nor impose any
obligation or duties on the city. The disapproval of any such plan, plat, or
replat by the city council shall be deemed a refusal of the proposed dedication
thereon.
   (e)   The planning and zoning commission may exercise jurisdiction over
subdivision of land and adopt regulations governing the subdivision of land
within its jurisdiction. Any regulations, before they become effective, shall
be approved by the city council, and shall be published as provided by law or
ordinances. Such regulations may include provision as to the extent to which
street and other ways shall be graded and improved and to which water, sewer,
and other utility mains, piping, or other facilities shall be installed as a
condition precedent to the approval of the plat. The regulations may provide
for a tentative approval of the plat before such installation. Any such
tentative approval shall be revocable for failure to comply with commitments
upon which the tentative approval was based and shall not be entered on the
plat. In lieu of the completion of any improvements or utilities prior to the
final approval of the plat, the commission may accept an adequate bond with
surety, satisfactory to the commission, to secure for the city the actual
construction and installation of the improvements or utilities at a time and
according to specifications fixed by or in accordance with the regulations of
the commission, and further conditioned that the developer will pay for all
material and labor relating to the construction of the improvements. The city
may enforce said bond by all appropriate legal and equitable remedies. Nothing
in this section shall be construed as granting the city or planning and zoning
commission the power to direct any public utility to extend its services to any
particular area.
   (f)   Whenever one (1) or more main buildings are proposed to be located in
a cluster or grouping which has a different arrangement, orientation, or other
site planning variation from that of other buildings, structures, or uses in
the area or on adjacent properties, the architectural design, location,
orientation, service, and parking areas of such buildings shall be planned so
as not to adversely affect the use of adjacent or other properties in the area,
as determined by the city council after receiving a report and recommendation
from the planning and zoning commission.
   (g)   All plans for the new construction of or addition to any building,
classified by the International Building Code for use or occupancy as assembly,
business, educational, institutional, mercantile, or any combination thereof,
shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission for review and
recommendation, except as otherwise provided by Section 6-163 of this Code. All
such recommendations must be submitted to the city council for final approval.
(Code 1976, §§12-1-2, 12-1-3, 12-1-4, 12-1-6, 12-6-2; Ord. No. 505, §2, 9-20-
94) State law reference--planning and zoning commission generally, 11 O.S. §
45-103, 45-104)
Sec. 24-25. Specific use permits-List of uses- Conditions for use of land.
   1.   As used in this chapter "specific use permit' means a permit granted by
the City Council, after notice and a hearing and preliminary review and
recommendation of the Planning & Zoning Commission, for a specific use within
any zoning district.
   2.   Each zoning district in which specific use permits are permitted
contains a list of uses, which have been determined to more intensely dominate
the area in which they are to be located or their effects on the general public
are broader in scope than other types of uses, which are permitted in the
zoning district. A property owner with a use enumerated on the list may, by
application for a specific use permit, locate in a zoning district for which
such use would not normally be allowed or could be allowed, but due to its
potential impact on surrounding properties, must secure a specific use permit.
   3.   The types of uses for which a specific use permit may be required are
those types of uses which, because of the size of the land they require or the
specialized nature of the use, may more intensely dominate the area in which
they are located and their effects on the general public are broader in scope
than other uses permitted in the district.
   4.   The designation of a specific use as possible on the specific use list
shall not constitute an authorization or an assurance that such use will be
permitted. Rather, each specific use permit application shall be viewed as to
its probable effect on the adjacent properties and community welfare and may be
approved or denied as the findings indicate appropriate.
   5.   In granting a specific use permit, the City Council may require
conditions related to the use of land, including, but not limited to, permitted
uses, lot sizes, setback, height limits, required facilities, buffers, open
space areas, lighting, signage, landscaping, parking and loading,
compatibility, land use density and such other development standards and
operational conditions and safeguards as are indicated to be important to the
welfare and protection of adjacent property and the community as a whole. This
may include having the property platted and/or the requirement of the
dedication of sufficient right-of-way or easement as necessary to further the
public good. Such conditions shall be determined in accordance with the
regulations specified in the zoning ordinance. The conditions need not be
uniform with regard to each type of land use if equitable procedures
recognizing due process principles and avoiding arbitrary decisions have been
followed in making regulatory decisions.
(Ord. No. 596, §3, 10-19-2004).
State law reference, --Title 11, § 43-101 et seq.
Sec. 24-26. Application, review, public hearing.
   1.   The owner of any property within the corporate limits of the City, or a
representative of such owner, may make application for a specific use permit
for property in a zoning district where specific use permits have been
authorized. The application shall be made on forms provided by the zoning
administrator and shall be accompanied by an application fee established by
resolution of the City Council. The applicant shall be required to submit a
preliminary site plan and a certified list of property owners within three
hundred feet of the subject property as listed on the current property tax
rolls.
   2.   As used in this section, "site plan" means the documents and plans
specified in the application form, which are needed to ensure that a proposed
land use or activity is in compliance with city ordinances and applicable state
and federal regulations, if any.
   3.   The zoning administrator shall review the application for eligibility
and completeness. Upon making a determination that all required information has
been provided and that the application is eligible for further consideration,
the zoning administrator shall schedule the application for public hearing
before the Planning & Zoning Commission. Said hearing shall be held within
sixty (60) days of receipt of the completed application. An incomplete
application, or any application for a specific use which is not specifically
enumerated for the subject zoning district, or which is not consistent with
applicable city ordinance, state law, or federal law may be denied by the
zoning administrator.
   4.   Notification of the public hearing shall be given by mail in the same
manner as required by Section 43-106 of Title 11 of the Oklahoma Statutes for
public hearings on proposed zoning changes. Within a reasonable time following
the public hearing, the City Council may deny the request, approve the request,
or approve the request with conditions.
   5.   Reasonable conditions may be required in conjunction with the approval
of a specific use permit. Conditions imposed shall meet the following
requirements:
   a.   Be designed to take into consideration the natural environment, the
health, safety, and welfare of the residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as a whole;
   b.   Be related to the valid exercise of police power, and to the proposed
use or activity;
   c.   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of zoning requirements;
   d.   Be related to the standards established for the land use or activity
under consideration; and
   e.   Be necessary to ensure compliance with those standards.
   6.   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a specific use
permit shall be stated in the record of the approval actions and shall not be
changed or amended except as expressly authorized by resolution of the City
Council, with notice. The City Clerk shall maintain a record of conditions,
which are changed.
   7.   A specific use permit shall become void if the use ceases for sixty
(60) consecutive days or if the use does not commence within six (6) months
after the granting of the specific use permit.
   8.   A specific use permit shall not be transferred to a new property owner
without the approval of the City Council.
   9.   Requests for specific use permits or other rezoning requests that have
been denied by the City Council will not be again scheduled for a hearing
within six (6) months of the date of such decision. A new application must be
filed, and hearing before the Planning & Zoning Commission and City Council, if
required, will not be granted unless the applicant can show material change in
the situation or where new evidence, which might affect the decision, can be
produced. Motions for rehearing will not be entertained. A request that is
withdrawn prior to a decision thereon by the city council shall not be re-filed
or heard within six (6) months of the date of such withdrawal.
(Code 1976, §12-1-17; Ord. No. 596, §3, 10-19-2004)
State law reference, --Title 11, § 43-101 et seq.
Sec. 24-27. Lot splits.
   (a)   The division of any lot that is recorded as part of an official plat
in the city into two or more lots shall first be submitted to the planning and
zoning commission for review and report.
   (b)   No lot shall be split unless all of the individual lots resulting from
the split meet all of the requirements of this chapter in addition to all
applicable subdivision regulations of the city.
   (c)   A lot split shall be required in the following instances:
   (1)   Whenever a legally platted lot under single ownership is to be divided
for the purpose of the sale of a portion of the legally platted lot to another
owner;
   (2)   Whenever two (2) or more main buildings are proposed to be located in
a cluster or grouping which has a different arrangement, orientation, or other
site planning variation from that of other buildings, structures, or uses in
the area or on adjacent properties and where the division of the property into
separate lots is deemed necessary by the building inspector to determine the
open space, lot area, frontage, or off-street parking area required for any
use, main building, accessory building, or accessory use thereto.
   (d)   Final approval for any lot split shall be by the city council.
   (e)   All approved lot splits shall be filed and recorded in the office of
the County Registrar of Deeds by the applicant.
Secs. 24-28--24-40. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
State law reference--Board of adjustment required, 11 O.S. §44-101 et seq.
Sec. 24-41. Created.
   There is hereby created a board of adjustment.
(Code 1976, §12-3-1)
Sec. 24-42. Membership.
   (a)   The board of adjustment shall be composed of five (5) citizens of the
city, appointed by the city council for a term of three (3) years, and
removable for cause by the council, upon written charges and after public
hearing.
   (b)   The board shall elect a chairman from its membership.
   (c)   If any board member is absent without cause as determined by the city
council for three (3) consecutive meetings, he shall after notice, thereon
cease to be a board member.
   (d)   Vacancies shall be filled for the un-expired term of any member whose
term becomes vacant.
(Code 1976, §12-3-2)
State law reference--Membership, 11 O.S. §44-101.
Sec. 24-43. Meetings.
   (a)   The board of adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of
the chairman and at such other times as the board may determine. The chairman,
or in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses.
   (b)   The board of adjustment shall be subject to the open meeting laws of
this state and all meetings, deliberations and voting of the board shall be
open to the public.
   (c)   The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, which shall be immediately filed in the office of the city clerk and
shall be a public record.
   (d)   The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any other requirement, decision, or determination of any
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass or to effect any variation in any ordinance.
(Code 1976, §§12-3-3, 12-3-6)
State law reference--Meetings, 11 O.S. §44-102.
Sec. 24-44. Powers.
   (a)   The board of adjustment shall have the following powers:
   (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this chapter, or any ordinance adopted pursuant
thereto;
   (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter to
allow a use, or a specifically designated element associated with a use, which
is not permitted by right in a particular district because of potential adverse
effect, but which if controlled in the particular instance as to its
relationship to the neighborhood and to the general welfare, may be permitted
by the board of adjustment, where specifically authorized by this chapter, and
in accordance with the substantive and procedural standards of this chapter;
   (3)   To authorize in specific cases variances from the terms, standards and
criteria that pertain to an allowed use category within a zoning district as
authorized by this chapter when such cases are shown not to be contrary to the
public interest if, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the
spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice done;
provided, however, the board shall have no power to authorize variance as to
use except as provided by paragraph (4) of this section.
   (4)   To hear and decide oil and/or gas applications or appeals unless
prohibited in the city by ordinance. The board of adjustment shall be required
to make the finding prescribed by Section
24-48 of this chapter in order to grant a variance as to use with respect to
any such application or appeal. Exceptions and/or variances may be allowed by
the board only after notice and hearing as provided in Section 24-48 of this
chapter. The minutes of the meeting at which the variance or special exception
was granted shall show that each element of a variance or special exception was
established at the public hearing on the question, otherwise said variance or
special exception shall be voidable on appeal to the district court.
(Code 1976, §12-3-5)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O.S. §44-104.
Sec. 24-45. Extent of relief; vote necessary to grant relief.
   (a)   When exercising the powers provided for in Section
24-44 the board of adjustment, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination from which appealed and may make such
order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made.
   (b)   The concurring vote of at least three (3) members of the board of
adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative officer, to decide in favor of the
applicant, or to decide any matter, which may properly come before it pursuant
to this chapter and the powers granted by Section
24-44 herein.
(Code 1976, §12-3-5)
State law reference--Similar provisions 11 O.S. §44-105.
Sec. 24-46. Special exceptions.
   The board of adjustment is hereby authorized to make special exceptions to
specific uses allowed within each zoning category according to the provisions
of this chapter in appropriate cases and subject to appropriate conditions and
safeguards in harmony with its general purpose and intent and only in
accordance with general or specific provisions contained in this chapter.
State law reference--Similar provisions 11 O.S. §44-106.
Sec. 24-47. Variances.
   A variance from the terms, standards and criteria that pertain to an allowed
use category within a zoning district as authorized by this chapter may be
granted in whole, in part, or upon reasonable conditions as provided in this
chapter, only upon a finding of the board of adjustment that:
   (1)   The application of this chapter to the particular piece of property
would create an unnecessary hardship;
   (2)   Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved; and
   (3)   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good, or impair the purposes and intent of this chapter or the
comprehensive plan.
   (4)   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum necessary to alleviate
the unnecessary hardship.
(Code 1976, §12-3-5)
State law reference--Similar provisions, 11 O.S. 44-107.
Sec. 24-48. Notice of hearings.
   (a)   Notice of public hearing before the board of adjustment shall be given
by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and by mailing
written notice by the clerk of the board of adjustment to all owners of
property within a three-hundred-foot radius of the exterior boundary of the
subject property. A copy of the published notice may be mailed in lieu of
written notice; however, the notice by publication and written notice shall be
published and mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
   (b)   The notice, whether by publication or mail, of a public hearing before
the board of adjustment shall contain:
   (1)   Legal description of the property and the street address or
approximate location in the municipality;
   (2)   Present zoning classification of the property and the nature of the
appeal, variance or exception requested; and
   (3)   Date, time, and place of the hearing.
   (c)   On hearings involving minor variances or exceptions, notice shall be
given by the city clerk of the board of adjustment by mailing written notice to
all owners of property adjacent to the subject property. The notice shall be
mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing and shall contain the facts
listed in subsection (b) of this section. The board of adjustment shall set
forth in a statement of policy what constitutes minor variances or exceptions,
subject to approval or amendment by the city council.
(Code 1976, §12-3-6)
State law reference--Similar provisions 11 O.S. §44-108.
Sec. 24-49. Appeals to board of adjustment.
   (a)   Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer.
   (b)   Such appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days from the date of
the decision by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and by
filing with the board of adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
therefore and by paying a filing fee in the amount established by resolution at
the office of the city clerk at the time the notice is filed. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment
certified copies of all of the papers constituting the record of the matter,
together with a copy of the ruling or order from which the appeal is taken;
   (c)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the board
of adjustment, after notice of appeal has been filed with him, that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the board of
adjustment or by a court of record on application and notice to the officer
from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown; and
   (d)   The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Code 1976, §12-3-4)
State law reference--Appeals to board of adjustment, 11 O.S. 44-109.
Sec. 24-50. Appeal to district court.
   (a)   An appeal from any action, decision, ruling, judgment, or order of the
board of adjustment may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or severally
aggrieved, or any taxpayer or any officer, department, board, or bureau of the
city to district court.
   (b)   Notice of appeal shall be filed with the city clerk and with the clerk
of the board of adjustment within ten (10) days from the decision of the board,
which notice shall specify the grounds of such appeal. No bond or deposit for
costs shall be required for such appeal.
   (c)   Upon filing of the notice of appeal as herein provided, the board of
adjustment shall forthwith transmit to the court clerk of the county the
original, or certified copies, of all papers constituting the record in the
case, together with the order, decision, or ruling of the board.
   (d)   The appeal shall be heard and tried de novo in the district court. All
issues in any proceedings under this section shall have preference over all
other civil actions and proceedings.
   (e)   An appeal to the district court from the board of adjustment stays all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the chairman of
the board of adjustment, from which the appeal is taken, certifies to the court
clerk, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the district
court upon application or notice to the administrative officer in charge of the
enforcement of the terms and provisions of this chapter, and upon notice to the
chairman of the board of adjustment for which the appeal is taken, and upon due
cause being shown.
   (f)   The court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
decision brought up for review. Costs shall not be allowed against the board of
adjustment unless it shall appear to the district court that the board acted
with gross negligence or in bad faith or with malice in making the decision
appealed from. An appeal shall lie from the action of the district court as in
all other civil actions.
(Code 1976, §12-3-7)
State law reference--Appeals to district court, 11 O.S. §44-110.
Secs. 24-51--24-60. Reserved.
DIVISION 4. AMENDMENTS
Sec. 24-61. Notice and public hearing of proposed regulations.
   Parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard at a
public hearing before any district regulation, restriction, or boundary shall
become effective. At least fifteen (15) days' notice of the date, time, and
place of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city. Said notice shall include a map of the area to be affected, which
indicates street names or numbers, streams, or other significant landmarks in
said area.
State law reference--Similar provisions 11 O.S. §43-104.
Sec. 24-62. Amendments or changes of regulations, restrictions, and boundaries
- protests.
   (a)   Regulations, restrictions, and district boundaries of municipalities
may be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed. The requirements
of Section
24-61 of this chapter on public hearings and notice shall apply to all proposed
amendments or changes to regulations, restrictions, or district boundaries.
   (b)   Protests against proposed changes shall be filed at least three (3)
days before the date of the public hearings. If protests are filed by:
   (1)   The owners of twenty (20) percent of more of the area of the lots
included in a proposed change, or
   (2)   The owners of fifty (50) percent or more of the area of the lots
within a three-hundred-foot radius of the exterior boundary of the territory
included in a proposed change; then the proposed change or amendment shall not
become effective except by the favorable vote of three-fifths of all the
members of the city council.
State law reference--Similar provisions 11 O.S. §43-105.
Sec. 24-63. Additional notice requirements for proposed zoning changes and
reclassifications.
(a)   Except as authorized in subsection (b) of this section, in addition to
the notice requirements provided for in Section
24-61, notice of a public hearing on any proposed zoning district boundary
change, except by the city acting pursuant to subsection (b) of this section,
shall be given twenty (20) days prior to the hearing by mailing written notice
by the secretary of the planning and zoning commission to all the owners of
real property as provided for in section
24-62. The notice shall contain the:
(1)   Legal description of the property and the street address or approximate
location in the city; and
(2)    Present zoning of the property and the zoning sought by the applicant;
and
(3)    Date, time, and place of the public hearing.
In addition to written notice requirements, notice may also be given by posting
notice of said hearing on the affected property at least twenty (20) days
before the date of the hearing.
(b)   If the city proposes zoning reclassifications in order to revise its
comprehensive plan or official map or to identify areas which require specific
land use development due to topography, geography, or other distinguishing
features, including but not limited to floodplain, drainage, historic
preservation, and blighted areas, the city council may require, in addition to
the notice requirements provided for in section
24-61, a sign to be posted on designated properties within the area affected by
the proposed zoning reclassification. The sign and the lettering thereon shall
be of sufficient size so as to be clearly visible and legible from the Public
Street or streets toward which it faces. The notice shall state:
(1)   The date, time, and place of the public hearing; and
(2   Who will conduct the public hearing; and
(3)   The desired zoning classification; and
(4)   The proposed use of the property; and
(5)   Other information as may be necessary to provide adequate and timely
public notice.
State law reference--Similar provisions 11 O.S. §43-106.
Sec. 24-64. Fee.
Persons requesting the city to rezone property or requesting a special use
permit shall pay a fee to the city in the amount established by resolution.
(Code 1976, §12-2-4; Ord. No. 505, §2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 24-65. Rezoning of undeveloped land.
From time to time, the city council shall instruct the city planning and zoning
commission to study and make recommendations concerning the use of undeveloped
land to promote the general welfare and in accordance with the comprehensive
city plan, and upon receipt of such recommendations, the city council shall,
after public hearings as required by law, establish the district classification
of said lands.
(Code 1976, §12-2-5)
Secs. 24-66--24-75. Reserved.
DIVISION 5. NONCONFORMANCES
Sec. 24-76. Generally.
   A non-conforming use, building or structure may be continued and maintained,
except as otherwise provided in this division.
(Code 1976, §12-7-1; Ord. No. 596, §4, 10-19-2004)
Sec. 24-77. Alteration or enlargement of buildings and structures.
   (a)   A nonconforming building or structure shall not be added to or
enlarged in any manner unless said building or structure, including additions
and enlargements, is made to conform to all of the regulations of the district
in which it is located except as provided herein.
   (b)   If a building or structure is conforming as to use, but nonconforming
as to area regulations, height regulations or off-street parking space, the
building or structure may be enlarged or added to provided that the enlargement
or addition complies with the applicable area regulations and the existing
building and the addition complies with the off-street parking requirements of
the district in which said building or structures is located.
   (c)   No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in whole or in
part to another location on the lot unless every portion of said building or
structure is made to conform to all of the regulations of the district in which
it is located.
(Code 1976, §12-7-1)
Sec. 24-78. Building vacancy.
   A building, structure, or portion thereof, which is or hereafter becomes
vacant and remains unoccupied for a continuous period of three (3) months shall
not thereafter be occupied except by a use, which conforms to the use
regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Code 1976, §12-7-1; Ord. No. 596, §4, 10-19-2004)
Sec. 24-79. Changes in use.
   (a)   A nonconforming use of a conforming building or structure (i.e.,
commercial use in a dwelling, etc.) shall not be expanded or extended into any
other portion of such conforming building or structure nor changed except to a
conforming use.
   (b)   A vacant or partially vacant nonconforming building or structure may
be occupied by a use for which the building or structure was designed or
intended.
(Code 1976, §12-7-1; Ord. No. 596, §4, 10-19-2004)
Sec. 24-80. Damaged building.
   When a structure, the use of which does not conform to the provisions of
this chapter, is damaged by fire, explosion, act of nature, or the public
enemy, to the extent of more than fifty (50) percent of its actual cash value,
it shall not be restored except in conformity with the district regulations.
(Code 1976, §12-7-3)
Secs. 24-81--24-95. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; ZONING MAP
Cross reference--Authority to establish districts, 11 O.S. §43-102.
Sec. 24-96. Districts created, abolished.
   In order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
city, the city is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
   1.   A-1 Single Family Dwelling District
   2.   C-1 Restricted Commercial District
   3.   C-2 Commercial District.
   4.   PUD Planned Unit Development District
(Code 1976, §12-1-8; Ord. No. 588, §1, 10-21-03; Ord. No. 590, § 1, 11-18-03;
Ord. No. 596, §5, 10-19-2004)
Sec. 24-97. Zoning map.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts are indicated upon the District Map
of the City of The Village, which map is attached to and made a part of this
Code. The district map and all notations, references and other matters shown
thereon shall be as much a part of this Code as if the notations, references,
and other matters set forth by said map were all fully described herein. The
official zoning map shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2877.png]
 
Figure 24-97, Official Land Use Map, 2022
(Code 1976, §12-1-9; Map amendment. Ord. No. 590, § 2, 11-18-03; 2022 City
Code)
Sec. 24-98. Interpretation of district boundaries.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or highway right-of-way lines,
such centerlines, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines shall be
construed to be such boundaries;
   (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries;
   (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or the centerlines or
right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall be construed as
being parallel thereto and at such scaled distance there from as indicated on
the zoning map.
(Code 1976, §12-6-11)
Sec. 24-99. Vacation of public easements.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public easement is vacated, the district
classifications of the property to which the vacated portions of land accrue
shall become the classification of the vacated land.
(Code 1976, §12-6-12)
Sec. 24-100. Annexations and unplatted lands.
   All annexations of land and unplatted areas of land in the city shall be in
the A-1 Single Family Residential District.
(Code 1976, §12-6-13)
Secs. 24-112--24-150. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. DISTRICTS
State law reference--District regulations, 11 O.S. §43-102.
DIVISION 1.
A-1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Sec. 24-151. Scope.
   This division applies to the A-1 Single-Family Residential District.
Sec. 24-152. General description.
   The district is the most restrictive zoning district. Single-family
dwellings are restricted to family members related by blood or marriage except
that a maximum of two (2) unrelated persons will be permitted. The principal
use of land is for single-family dwellings and related recreational, religious,
and educational facilities normally required to provide the basic elements of a
balanced and attractive residential area. These areas are intended to be
defined and protected from the encroachment of uses not performing a and
efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate light, air, and open space
for dwelling and related facilities and through consideration of the proper
functional relationship of each element.
(Code 1976, §12-4-1(A))
Sec. 24-153. Uses to have appropriate services.
   (a)   It is the intent of this chapter that all uses shall be located on a
site or within a building, which has sufficient utilities and services and is
of appropriate space and design to satisfactorily accommodate each use of land
or building, in terms of safety, function, esthetic quality, and harmony with
other uses in the area. Whenever a request for a use of land or building does
not meet these conditions, in the opinion of the building inspector, but all
other provisions are complied with, the building inspector shall refer such
cases to the planning and zoning commission for review and recommendations.
Said recommendations shall be submitted to the city council, which shall
stipulate the requirements, which shall be followed to comply with the intent
of this chapter and said requirements shall be made a part of the conditions
for issuance of the permit authorizing construction and occupancy.
(Code 1976, §12-6-7)
Sec. 24-154. Uses permitted; Uses to have appropriate services.
A)   Property and buildings in the A-1 Single Family Residential District,
shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (1)   Detached single-family dwelling where only one (1) family as defined
herein may lawfully reside provided that a maximum of four (4) persons who are
not members of a family as defined herein shall be permitted to reside in any
single- family dwelling and provided further that in no instance shall there be
more than one (1) occupant per two hundred (200) square feet of living area in
any single-family dwelling. Reference - International Fire Code.
   (2)   Public park or playground.
   (3)   Residential sales subject to regulations provided in
Chapter 11 of this code.
   (4)   Garden or agricultural crops but not for the raising of livestock.
   (5)   Home occupation as defined and regulated by this chapter.
   (6)   Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main buildings, and
which are customary and incidental to the primary use of the property,
including, but not limited to, detached private garages, carports, cabanas,
gazebos, storage buildings, temporary or portable buildings, and tornado
shelters.
   (7)   Accessory structures that are customary and incidental to the primary
use of the property, and which include, but are not limited to, fences, radio
and television receivers, satellite reception antennas, swimming pools, solar
energy devices, flag poles, basketball goals, and retaining walls. Fences
permitted shall be limited to the following types:
   i.   Brick, stucco, rock, or decorative concrete brick or block; provided
that such fences shall be constructed with an adequate concrete footing and
shall not be located on any utility easement.
   ii.   Chain-link or cyclone, galvanized metal.
   iii.   Wood/plastic, picket.
   iv.   Wood/ plastic, rail, or split rail.
   v.   Wood/plastic, with vertical or horizontal slats; sight-proof or see-
through; and
   vi.   Wrought Iron, with or without brick columns.
   (8)   Public utilities and public utility structures and facilities.
   (9)   Home Sharing Accessory Use, subject to the regulations and licensure
required in
Chapter 11, Article XXIII of this code.
   (10)   Accessory dwellings. (2022 Code)
(Ord. No. 759, 07-19-2021)
B)   Specific Uses permitted pursuant to Sections
24-25 and Section
24-26 of this chapter shall be limited to only the following uses:
   (1)   Beauty shop, hair salon, style shop, barber shop.
   (2)   Childcare center in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 11 of this code.
   (3)   Church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or similar place used for the
gathering of people for the study or worship of religious beliefs, and/or
fellowship, and provided it has (1) direct and primary means of ingress and
egress from Britton Road, Hefner Road, May Avenue, or Pennsylvania Avenue, and
(2) has a minimum lot size of two (2) acres.
   (4)   Church-Rectory/Parsonage; provided the rectory/parsonage use is
secondary to the primary use of the property as a church and provided that the
rectory/parsonage use is located in, or structurally connected to and made a
part of the main building;
   (5)   Community Center provided it has (1) direct and primary means of
ingress and egress from Britton Road, Hefner Road, May Avenue, or Pennsylvania
Avenue, and (2) has a minimum lot size of two (2) acres.
   (6)   Fraternal organization, civic club or similar place of assembly
provided it has (1) direct and primary means of ingress and egress from Britton
Road, Hefner Road, May Avenue, or Pennsylvania Avenue, and (2) has a minimum
lot size of two (2) acres.
   (7)   Library provided it has (1) direct and primary means of ingress and
egress from Britton Road, Hefner Road, May Avenue, or Pennsylvania Avenue, and
(2) has a minimum lot size of two (2) acres.
   (8)   Multifamily Units including, condominiums, duplexes, triplexes,
quadraplexes, townhouses, assisted living center, nursing home, or apartment
complexes;
   (9)   Oil and gas production facilities;
   (10)   Professional office, single-story only.
   (11)   Public or private school which offers general educational courses the
same as ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms regularly used
for housing and sleeping, except as may be provided for a caretaker or
headmaster;
   (12)   Tailor shop, alterations.
   (13)   YMCA, or similar place of assembly provided that it has (1) direct
and primary means of ingress and egress from Britton Road, Hefner Road, May
Avenue, or Pennsylvania Avenue, and (2) has a minimum lot size of two (2)
acres.
   (14)   Wind generation towers or structures.
   (15)   Home Sharing Principal Use, subject to the regulations and licensure
required in Chapter 11, Article XXIII of this Code, and provided that this use
shall be limited to five percent (5%) or less of the total residential units
within each City Ward. (2022 Code)
C)   Exclusions: Boarding houses, group living homes, group lodging, for-profit
housekeeping units, commercial growers growing medical marijuana for commercial
purposes licensed pursuant to 63 O.S. § 422 and as defined in OAC 310:681-1-4,
and processors of medical marijuana licensed pursuant to 63 O.S. § 423 and as
defined in OAC 310:681-1-4 are specifically excluded from the A-1 Single Family
Residential District. All other uses not listed herein are specifically
excluded from the A-1 Single Family Residential District. (Ord. No. 747, §1,
07-15-2019)
C)   Any church, library, YMCA, or school located in the A-1 Single Family
District as of October 19, 2004, shall not be considered non-conforming uses
and therefore shall not be subject to the limitations provided in Division 5 of
this Chapter pertaining to non-conformances. Nothing herein shall prevent an
existing church or school from using A-1 Single Family properties already in
church ownership as of October 19, 2004, or acquiring adjacent or nearby
residential property, provided however that the church or school will be
required to obtain rezoning from A-1 Single Family to C-1 Commercial or to
obtain a Specific Use Permit prior to extending church or school operations,
programs, or activities to any such property purchased after October 19, 2004.
Cross reference--
Chapter 20, Signs.
(Code 1976, §12-4-1(B), §12-6-3; §12-6-7; §12-6-10; Ord. No. 451, §1, 12-18-90;
Ord. No. 505, §2, 9-20-94; Ord. No. 596, §6, 10-19-2004)
Sec. 24-155. Area regulations.
   All main buildings, accessory buildings and accessory structures shall be
placed on property in the A-1 Single Family District to comply with the
following area requirements:
   (1)   Projection into yards: Open eaves, cornices, and windowsills may
project into any required yard a distance not to exceed two (2) feet. Open
porches may project into a front or rear yard a distance not to exceed five (5)
feet.
   (2)   Street access: A public street shall form the direct and primary means
of ingress and egress for all permitted uses in the A-1 Single Family district.
Alleys, where they exist, shall form only a secondary means of ingress and
egress.
   (3)   Front yard:
   (a)   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
Where the dedicated street right-of-way is less than fifty (50) feet, the depth
of the front yard shall be measured at a starting point twenty-five (25) feet
from the centerline of the street easement.
   (b)   If twenty-five (25) percent or more of the lots on one side of the
street between two (2) intersecting streets are improved with main buildings,
all of which have observed an average setback line of greater than twenty five
(25) feet, and no main building varies more than five (5) feet from this
average setback line, then no main building shall be erected closer to the
street line than the minimum setback so established by the existing main
buildings; but this regulation shall not require a front yard of greater depth
than forty (40) feet.
   (c)   Accessory buildings: Carports shall be permitted provided that they
are attached to the main building. No support column or load bearing structure
of any carport may extend closer than twenty-five (25) feet from the front lot
line. Detached garages and all other accessory buildings shall be prohibited
from the front yard. (Ord. No. 747, §2, 07-15-2019)
   (d)   Accessory structures: Flag poles, security lights, and basketball
goals shall be permitted in the front yard and shall be located at least ten
(10) feet from the front lot line. All other accessory structures except as
otherwise provided herein are prohibited from the front yard.
   (e)   Except for carports permitted under paragraph (c) above, no fence,
wall, trellis, or similar accessory structure may extend beyond the front
building line or be in the front yard of a building unless said fence, wall,
trellis, or similar structure is two (2) feet or less in height. (Ord. No. 760,
§2, 08-02-2021)
   (f)    No hedge or hedge-like plant growth may extend beyond the front
building line unless said hedge or hedge-like plant growth is two (2) feet or
less in height.
   (4)   Side yard:
   (a)   There shall be a side yard on each side of any main building the total
of which yards, shall be at least twelve (12) feet or twenty (20) percent of
the average width of the lot, whichever amount is smaller; provided that the
minimum side yard shall be at least three (3) feet.
   (b)   On corner lots the side yard regulations shall be the same as for
interior lots except in cases where the lot in the rear of the corner lot
fronts upon the side street in which case there shall be a side yard on the
side street of not less than fifty (50%) percent of the front yard required on
the lot in the rear of such corner lot.
   (c)   Where a continuous row of lots is to be developed by the construction
of a series of dwellings, not more than twenty-one (21) feet in height, a side
yard of three (3) feet may be permitted on one side of a main building where a
driveway of not less than eight (8) feet is to be constructed on the other side
of the main building, provided that an open space not less than eleven (11)
feet is maintained between all such dwellings.
   (d)   Where a main building is to be built on a lot having an attached
garage, the side yard on the side of the main building where the attached
garage is located shall be no less than six (6) feet.
   (e)   Accessory buildings and accessory structures:
   1)   Permitted accessory buildings and accessory structures shall be located
behind the front building line and shall not be located adjacent to any portion
of the front yard, except as otherwise provided herein. Fences, walls or
retaining walls may extend beyond the front building line provided that no
portion of such fence, wall or retaining wall extending beyond the front
building line shall exceed two (2) feet in height. Carports may extend beyond
the front building line provided that they are attached to the main building.
Carports may not extend closer than twenty-five (25) feet from the front lot
line to the main support column(s) of the carport. (Ord. No. 670, §1, 08-02-
2021)
   2)   No accessory building or accessory structure, except temporary or
portable buildings and fences, shall be built or placed closer than three (3)
feet from any side or rear lot line or closer than three (3) feet from any
utility easement. Exception: Below ground tornado shelters located in the side
yard may extend to the side property line provided that (1) no portion of the
shelter extends more than two (2) feet above the elevation of the floor of the
main residential building, (2) the shelter is behind a sight-proof fence and is
not visible from the street and does not encroach on any utility easement.
(Ord. No. 685 §1, 08-06-2013; Ord. No. 670, §1, 08-02-2021)
   3)   No accessory building shall exceed twelve (12) feet in height;
provided, however, that this height limitation shall not apply to two story
detached garages or detached accessory dwellings built more than five (5) feet
from any side lot line and three (3) feet from the rear lot line. (Ord. No.
670, §1, 08-02-2021)
   4)   On corner lots, no accessory building or accessory structure shall
project beyond the front building line of the lot or, in the side yard facing a
public street, exceed two (2) feet in height unless located behind a sight-
proof fence. (Ord. No. 670, §1, 08-02-2021)
   (f)   No hedge-like plant growth shall be maintained beyond the front
building line, which exceeds two (2) feet in height.
   (5)   Rear yard:
   (a)   There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than thirty (30)
feet or twenty (20) percent of the depth of the lot, whichever amount is
smaller.
   (b)   Accessory buildings and accessory structures:
   (1)   No accessory building or accessory structure, except temporary or
portable buildings, shall be built or placed closer than three (3) feet from
any rear or side lot line or closer than three (3) feet from any utility
easement.
   (2)    An accessory building or accessory structure shall not occupy more
than thirty (30) percent of the surface land area of the rear yard and no
accessory building shall exceed twelve (12) feet in height; provided however
that this height limitation shall not apply to two story detached garages or
detached accessory dwellings built more than five (5) feet from any side lot
line and three (3) feet from the rear lot line.
   (6)   Lot width:
   (a)   For detached single-family dwellings there shall be a minimum lot
width of fifty (50) feet at the front building line, and such lot shall abut on
a street for a distance of not less than thirty-five (35) feet.
   (7)   Lot area:
   (a)   For each dwelling, and buildings and structures accessory thereto,
there shall be a lot area of not less than seven thousand two hundred (7,200)
square feet.
   (b)   The minimum lot size established in subsection (a) above shall not
apply if new construction replaces a razed single-family home, and the lot area
for said new construction is not less than the lot area of said razed single-
family home.
(Ord. No. 633, §1, 06-17-2008)
   (8)   Intensity of use:
   (a)   A detached single-family dwelling shall be deemed to be the main
building on the lot on which it is situated;
   (b)   One main building shall be permitted on any lot, or lots occupied by a
detached single-family dwelling;
   (c)   If a church, school, YMCA, childcare center, library, or community
center is permitted by Specific Use Permit, more than one main building may be
permitted on a lot or lots with a combined area of three (3) acres or more.
   (d)   No open space, lot area, frontage, or off-street parking area required
for any main building and accessory building, or use associated thereto shall,
during its life, be occupied by or shared by, or counted as part of the area
requirement or open space, lot area, frontage, or off-street parking for any
other primary or main building or accessory building or use associated thereto.
   (e)   Accessory dwellings shall not be assigned an address or utility
account for water, sewer, solid waste, electric or other public services
separate from or independent of the main building or principal use of the lot
on which it is located. (2022 Code)
   (f)   Accessory dwellings shall not exceed 1,000 square feet in living area.
(2022 Code)
   (9)   Court requirements for multiple-family dwellings: Whenever a multiple
family dwelling or group of multiple family dwellings is permitted by Specific
Use Permit and designed with an inner or outer court, the following
requirements shall be complied with:
   (a)   Outer court width. The width of an outer court shall be not less than
ten (10) feet between walls, or equal to the height of the opposing wall,
whichever is greater.
   (b)   Inner court width. The width of an inner court of a multiple-family
dwelling shall be not less than two (2) times the height of the lowest wall
forming the court, but in no case shall it be less than twenty (20) feet.
   (c)   Passageway for inner court. An open unobstructed passageway shall be
provided at the grade of each inner court. Such passageway shall not be less
than twelve (12) feet in width, shall have a clearance of not less than twelve
(12) feet in height, and shall provide a straight and continuous passage from
the inner court to a yard or open space having a direct connection with a
street.
   (d)   Accessory buildings prohibited. No accessory, maintenance buildings
shall be located in a court of a multiple-family dwelling area.
   (10)   Height regulations:
   (a)   No main building shall exceed thirty-five (35) feet in height and no
accessory building shall exceed twelve feet (12') in height, except as
otherwise provided herein.
   (b)   Chimneys, elevators, poles, tanks, towers, spires, steeples, bell
towers and other similar projections not intended for human occupancy may be
erected to a height above the maximum height permitted herein but shall be
subject to height limitations established by other applicable building codes.
   (c)   In measuring heights, a habitable basement or attic shall be counted
as a story, provided that a story in a sloping roof, the area of which story,
at a height of four (4) feet above the floor, does not exceed two-thirds of the
floor area of the story immediately below, shall be counted as a half story.
   (d)   Except as otherwise specified in this chapter, the maximum height for
fences shall be eight (8) feet.
   (11)   All buildings, accessory buildings, and accessory structures that are
part of a school campus consisting of multiple main buildings, accessory
buildings, and accessory structures and which are constructed on a tract of
land or tracts of land with a combined area of at least five (5) acres, shall
maintain a minimum exterior setback of seven and one half (7.5') feet. No
interior setbacks shall apply except as required by applicable building and
fire codes adopted by the City. (Ord. No. 638, §1, 03-17-2009)
(Ord. No. 596, §6, 10-19-2004; Ord. No. 638, §1, 03-17-2009)
Sec. 24-156. Home Occupations.
   (a)   Scope: The intent of this section is to provide regulations pertaining
to the conduct of home occupations in the city so as to preserve the
residential character of neighborhoods and to protect the safety, health, and
welfare of the citizens of the community.
   (c)   The following occupations shall not be conducted as home occupations:
   Beauty shop, except as authorized by Specific Use Permit;
   Barber shop, except as authorized by Specific Use Permit;
   Kennel;   
   Tea room;
   Restaurant;
   Palm reader, card reader or similar spiritualists;
   Rest home, tourist home or bed and breakfast inns;
   Cabinet shop;
   Metal fabrication shop;
   Automotive repair shop;
   Retail business of any kind.
   (c)   Home occupations authorized by this section shall be subject to the
following regulations:
   (1)   The person or persons conducting the home occupation shall live at the
residence where the home occupation is conducted and shall not maintain any
other permanent residence within fifty (50) miles of the residence where the
home occupation is conducted.
   (2)   No person, other than a person lawfully residing at the residence
where the home occupation is conducted, shall assist in the conduct of the home
occupation in any manner, either as an employee, independent contractor or
otherwise.
   (3)   Home occupations shall be conducted entirely within the confines of
the residence or accessory building thereto and shall be clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the residence for residential purposes and shall not
change the character thereof. The residence shall not be physically altered to
provide a separate public area for customer service or waiting and no
additional parking shall be provided other than that required for use by the
lawful occupants of the residence. Not more than 25% of the total square feet
of living area within any residence shall be physically altered for or used in
the conduct of the home occupation. For the purpose of this subsection, an
attached garage shall not be deemed to be part of the living area of any
residence unless said garage has been converted for use as a bedroom, family
room or other similar residential use.
   (4)   No home occupation shall involve the conduct of any activity or use of
mechanical equipment, which creates noise, dust, odor, or electrical
disturbance beyond the confines of the lot on which said occupation, is
conducted.
   (5)   No trading, renting, display, or sale of merchandise shall be carried
on at any residence where a home occupation is conducted, except as may
otherwise be permitted pursuant to applicable residential sale regulations.
   (6)   One (1) non-illuminated nameplate, not more than two (2) square feet
in area, shall be allowed at any residence where a home occupation is
conducted. Such nameplate sign shall be attached to the main or accessory
building and shall not be mounted higher than six (6) feet from the ground
elevation of the building on which it is mounted. No other sign of any kind
shall be visible from outside the premises.
   (7)   Forfeiture and Penalty:
1 Any person convicted of willfully violating any provision of this section
shall forfeit all rights and privileges to conduct a home occupation hereunder.
2 Any person who fails to comply with or violates any provision of this Section
shall be guilty of a Class A offense punishable by a fine of Seven Hundred and
Fifty ($750.00) Dollars and/or up to sixty (60) days imprisonment. Each day
that the noncompliance or violation exists shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 533, §2, 11-19-96)
Cross reference--
Chapter 25, Street design standards, Section
25-18.
(Code 1976, §12-4-1(C); §12-4-1(D); §12-6-2(1); §12-6-2(2); §12-6-2(3); §12-6-2
(4); §12-6-3; §12-6-4; §12-4-1(C); Ord. No. 223, §1, 10-19-76; Ord. No. 246,
§1, 11-7-78; Ord. No. 453, §2, 3-19-91; Ord. No. 456, §1, 5-21-91; Ord. No.
460, §1, 9-3-91; Ord. No. 497, §§3,4, 3-1-94; Ord. No. 505 §2, 9-20-94)
Secs. 24-157--24-165. Reserved.
DIVISION 2.
C-1 RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Sec. 24-166. Scope.
   This division applies to the C-1 Restricted Commercial Districts.
Sec. 24-167. General description.
   The district is intended to provide a place for those types of institutional
and commercial activities that require separate buildings and building groups
surrounded by landscaped yards and open area. Land, space, and esthetic
requirements of these uses make their location near residential neighborhoods
desirable.
(Code 1976, §12-4-2(A)
Sec. 24-168. Uses to have appropriate services.
   (a)   It is the intent of this chapter that all uses shall be located on a
site or within a building, which has sufficient utilities and services and is
of appropriate space and design to satisfactorily accommodate each use of land
or building, in terms of safety, function, esthetic quality, and harmony with
other uses in the area. Whenever a request for a use of land or building does
not meet these conditions, in the opinion of the building inspector, but all
other provisions are complied with, the building inspector shall refer such
case to the planning and zoning commission for review and recommendations. Said
recommendations shall be submitted to the city council, which shall stipulate
the requirements, which shall be followed to comply with the intent of this
chapter and said requirements shall be made a part of the conditions for
issuance of the permit authorizing construction and occupancy.
(Code 1976, §12-6-7)
Sec. 24-169. Uses permitted.
   Property and buildings in a C-1 Restricted Commercial District shall be used
for only the following purposes:
   A)   Any of the following uses.
   1)   Art gallery.
   2)   Assembly halls.
   3)   Church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or similar place used for the
gathering of people for the study or worship of religious beliefs, and/or
fellowship, and provided it has (1) direct and primary means of ingress and
egress from Britton Road, Hefner Road, May Avenue, or Pennsylvania Avenue.
(Ord. No. 688, §1, 01-07-2014)
   4)   Church-Rectory/Parsonage; provided the rectory/parsonage use is
secondary to the primary use of the property as a church and provided that the
rectory/parsonage use is located in, or structurally connected to and made a
part of the main building;
   5)   Community Centers, YMCA.   
   6)   Fraternal Organizations;
   7)   Laboratories for research and testing;
   8)   Library;
   9)   Museums;
   10)   Music conservatories;
   11)   Office buildings in which no activity is carried on catering to retail
trade with the general public and no stock of goods is maintained for sale to
customers. These uses shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to,
doctors, dentists, lawyers, architects, and engineers; provided, however, that
this shall in no way be construed as permitting undertaking establishments and
funeral homes.
   12)   Public utilities and public utility structures and facilities.
   13)   Public or Private School: Elementary School, Intermediate School, High
School, or College, but not including business, trade, or vocational schools;
   14)   Recreational uses associated with and maintained primarily for the
benefit and use of the occupants and families of the uses listed herein.
   15)   Shops and stores associated with and incident to the uses listed
herein and maintained only for serving the occupants thereof;
   16)   Buildings and structures and uses customarily incident and accessory
to the uses listed herein.
B)   Any residence or accessory building or accessory structure associated
thereto that is situated on any property at the time the property is zoned as
C-1 Commercial District shall be razed and removed from the property before the
property may be used for any of the purposes provided for in this section.
C)   All other uses not listed herein are specifically excluded from the C-
1 Commercial District.
(Code 1976, §12-4-2; Code 1976, §12-6-7; Ord. No 596 §7, 10-19-2004)
(Cross references--
Chapter 20, Signs;
Chapter 25, Subdivision Regulations)
Sec. 24-170. Area regulations.
   The area requirements for buildings and accessory buildings and structures
in the C-1 Commercial District shall be as follows:
   (1)   Front yard.
   (a)   All main buildings, accessory buildings and accessory structures shall
set back from the front lot line to provide a front yard having not less than
twenty-five (25) feet in depth.
   (b)   Where the dedicated street right-of-way is less than fifty (50) feet,
the depth of the front yard shall be measured at a starting point twenty-five
(25) feet from the centerline of the street easement.
   (2)   Side yard.
   (a)   Where a side yard is adjacent to the A-1 Single Family Residential
district no main building, accessory building or accessory structure shall be
located closer than thirty (30) feet from any adjoining dwelling and no closer
than fifteen (15) feet to the side lot line.
   (b)   Permitted accessory buildings and accessory structures shall be
located behind the front building line and shall not be located adjacent to any
portion of the front yard, except as otherwise provided herein. Fences, walls
or retaining walls may extend beyond the front building line provided that no
portion of such fence, wall or retaining wall extending beyond the front
building line shall exceed two (2) feet in height. Carports may extend beyond
the front building line provided that they are attached to the main building
and are located at least twenty-five (25) feet from the front lot line.
   (c)   No accessory building or accessory structure, except temporary or
portable buildings, shall be built or placed closer than three (3) feet from
any side or rear lot line or closer than three (3) feet from any utility
easement.
   (d)   On corner lots no accessory building or accessory structure shall
project beyond the front building line of the lot in the rear; provided,
however, that this provision shall not be so interpreted as to reduce the
buildable width, after providing the required interior side yard, of a corner
lot facing an intersecting street, and of record on September 20, 1994, to less
than thirty (30) feet.
   (3)   Rear yard.
   (a)   No main building shall be located closer than thirty (30) feet to the
rear lot line.
   (b)   No accessory building or accessory structure, except temporary or
portable buildings, shall be built or placed closer than three (3) feet from
any rear or side lot line or closer than three (3) feet from any utility
easement.
   (4)   Lot size. No minimum lot sizes and open spaces are prescribed for
permitted uses in the C-1 Commercial District. It is the intent of this chapter
that lots of sufficient size be used by any permitted use to provide adequate
parking and loading and unloading space required for operation of the use.
   (5)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
thirty-five (35) percent of the total lot area and in no case shall the total
gross floor area of the main building exceed the area of the lot.
   (6)   Screening. Whenever any commercial district or parking area is
established so as to abut the side or rear line of a lot in a residential
district an opaque ornamental fence, or wall, not less than six (6) feet high
shall be constructed and maintained in good condition along said side or rear
lot line up to, but not beyond, the abutting residential setback building line,
except where the front yard is used for off-street parking, then the provisions
of Article IV of this chapter, pertaining to off-street parking lots, shall
apply. In addition, the lighting, including any permitted illuminated sign,
shall be arranged so that there will be no annoying glare directed or reflected
toward residential buildings in a residential district.
   (7)   Open space. No open space, lot area, frontage, or off-street parking
area required for any main building and accessory building, or use associated
thereto shall, during its life, be occupied by or shared by, or counted as part
of the area requirement or open space, lot area, frontage, or off-street
parking for any other primary or main building or accessory building or use
associated thereto.
   (8)   Street access. A Street shall form the direct and primary means of
ingress and egress for all permitted uses in the C-1 Commercial District.
Alleys, where they exist, shall form only a secondary means of ingress and
egress.
   (9)   Height requirements:
   (a)   For every building or structure that exceeds twenty-four (24) feet in
height up to a maximum of thirty-six (36) feet, a five-foot setback shall be
added to every one foot of building height over twenty-four (24) feet in
addition to the minimum setbacks provided in this section.
   (b)   For every building, dwelling, or structure that exceeds the height of
thirty-six (36) feet up to a maximum height of forty-eight (48) feet there
shall be added four (4) feet of setback to every one (1) foot of building
height over thirty-six (36) feet in addition to the maximum setback
requirements in subsection (a) of this section. There shall be no buildings
permitted over the height of forty-eight (48) feet.
   (c)   Chimneys, elevators, poles, tanks, towers, spires, steeples, bell
towers and other similar projections not intended for human occupancy may be
erected to a height above the maximum height permitted herein but shall be
subject to height limitations established by other applicable building codes.
   (d)   Parapet walls shall not exceed four (4) feet and not be less than
three (3) feet in height. Such parapet walls shall not be counted in computing
the overall building height.
   (e)   Churches, schools, and public building permitted in this district may
exceed the height limitation of the district if the minimum depth of rear yards
and the minimum width of the side yards required in the district are increased
one (1) foot for each two (2) feet by which the height of such church, school
or public building exceeds the prescribed height limit.
(Code 1976, §12-4-2(D); §12-6-2(1); §12-6-2(3); §12-6-2(4); §12-6-2(5); Ord.
No. 289, §1, 4-21-81)
Secs. 24-171--24-185. Reserved.
DIVISION 3.
C-2 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Sec. 24-186. Scope.
   This division applies to the C-2 Commercial District.
Sec. 24-187. Uses to have appropriate services.
   (a)   It is the intent of this chapter that all uses shall be located on a
site or within a building, which has sufficient utilities and services and is
of appropriate space and design to satisfactorily accommodate each use of land
or building, in terms of safety, function, esthetic quality, and harmony with
other uses in the area. Whenever a request for a use of land or building does
not meet these conditions, in the opinion of the building inspector, but all
other provisions are complied with, the building inspector shall refer such
case to the planning and zoning commission for review and recommendations. Said
recommendations shall be submitted to the city council, which shall stipulate
the requirements, which shall be followed to comply with the intent of this
chapter and said requirements shall be made a part of the conditions for
issuance of the permit authorizing construction and occupancy.
(Code 1976, §12-6-7)
Sec. 24-188. Uses permitted.
A building or premises in the C-2 Commercial District shall be used only for
the following purposes:
A)   General Uses: General uses allowed in the C-2 Zoning District are as
follows:
   1)    Art gallery;
   2)    Automobile service station, provided, all storage tanks shall be below
the surface of the ground;
   3)   Automotive service centers including tire sales, repair and alignment,
muffler sales, oil change/lubrication services, and brake services;
   4)   Auto parts store;
   5)    Animal hospital, kennel, or veterinary clinic;
   6)    ATM machines, banks, and financial institutions provided that they are
secondary and incidental to a primary use that is authorized as a general use
herein;
   7)    Barber shop and/or beauty parlor;
   8)    Bakery shop;
   9)    Bicycle repair shop and sales;
   10)    Bookstore;
   11)    Building material sales;
   12)    Carpet & Floor Coverings;
   13)    Catering establishment;
   14)    Clinic for medical, dental, chiropractic, or eye care services;
   15)    Clothing store;
   16)    Convenience Store;
   17)    Eating establishments including restaurants, cafes, cafeterias, ice
cream/frozen yogurt parlors, and delicatessens. (See definitions, Section
24-1);
   18)    Electric appliance, audio/video, computer stores and repair shops;
   19)    Furniture Store;
   20)    Florist shop;
   21)    General Merchandise Store;
   22)    Grocery store;
   23)    Hardware store;
   24)    Home Improvement Store;
   25)    Jewelry store;
   26)   Nursery or garden center;
   27)    Office Supply Store;
   28)    Office for corporate/business use or for professional services,
including insurance offices, real estate offices, medical offices, legal
offices, CPA or bookkeeping office, newspaper publisher, tag agencies, and
public facilities, provided that such uses shall be limited to two-story
buildings;
   29)    Office buildings in existence as of October 19, 2004, and which
exceed the two-story limitation, shall not be considered non-conforming and
shall not be subject to the provisions of Division 5 of this Chapter;
   30)    Package store;
   31)    Parcel or mail service;
   32)    Painting and decorating shop;
   33)   Pharmacy or drug store;
   34)    Photographers or artist's studio;
   35)    Plumbing shop;
   36)    Pool, spa, and patio sales;
   37)    Print shop;
   38)    Retail shop, sales, or showroom, but not including automobile,
motorcycle, or boat sales;
   39)    Shoe/leather goods sales and repair;
   40)    Sporting Goods Store;
   41)    Tailor shop;
   42)    Tattoo Parlor & Body Piercing Establishment;
   43)    Toy Store;
   44)    Travel agency;
   45)    Video, Audio, TV, Furniture, Equipment, or Appliance rental store:
   46)    Business or commercial schools of dancing, music, or martial arts
academies that are less than 5,000 square feet in gross floor area. (Ord. No.
710, §1 08-04-2015)
   47)    Fitness centers that are less than 5,000 square feet in gross floor
area. (Ord. No. 710, §1, 08-04-2015)
   48)   Massage therapist duly licensed by the State of Oklahoma, provided
that such service is an accessory use only. The conviction of any message
therapist employed by the service for any crime involving moral turpitude shall
be grounds for revocation of the business' occupancy permit. (Ord. No. 734, §2,
01-15-2018.)
   49)    Accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily incident to the
above uses provided there shall be no manufacture, processing or compounding of
products other than such as are customarily incidental and essential to any
permitted use. Any building may have not more than forty (40) percent of its
floor area devoted to accessory uses.
   B)   Specific Uses: Specific uses permitted in the C-2 Commercial District
pursuant to Section
24-25 and Section
24-26 of this chapter shall be limited to only the following uses:
   1)   Amusement place, video arcade or theater;
   2)   Banks and financial institutions including cash advance, check cashing
services;
   3)   Bowling alley;
   4)   Business or commercial schools of dancing, music, or martial arts
academies that contain 5,000 square feet or more in gross floor area; (Ord. No.
710, §2, 08-04-2015)
   5)   Child Care Center;
   6)   Church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or similar building used for the
gathering of people for the study or worship of religious beliefs, and/or
fellowship, and provided the building:
   a)   Has direct and primary means of ingress and egress from Britton Road,
Hefner Road, May Avenue, or Pennsylvania Avenue;
   b)   Has a minimum lot size of at least one half (1/2) acre; and is not
located in a shopping center or strip mall.
   7)   Church-Rectory/Parsonage; provided the rectory/parsonage use is
secondary to the primary use of the property as a church and provided that the
rectory/parsonage use is located in, or structurally connected to and made a
part of the main building;
   8)   Community Center or similar place of assembly;
   9)   Fitness centers that contain 5,000 square feet or more in gross floor
area; (Ord. No. 710, §2, 08-04-2015)
   10)   Fraternal organization or similar place of assembly;
   11)   Funeral home.
   12)   Group counseling centers, services;
   13)   Gun range;
   14)   Laundry, dry cleaning, or dyeing establishment;
   15)   Motel, Hotel;
   16)   Movie Theater;
   17)   Oil and gas production facilities;
   18)   Pawnshop;
   19)   Skating rink.
   20)   Commercial greenhouse, indoor grow facility, or other commercial
growing operation for medical marijuana owned and operated by a person or
entity licensed pursuant to 63 O.S. § 422 and constructed, operated, secured,
and maintained in strict compliance with Oklahoma law, including 63 O.S. § 420,
et seq., and all rules and regulations promulgated by the Oklahoma State
Department of Health and Oklahoma Medical Marijuana Authority; (Ord. No. 747,
§2, 07-15-2019)
   21)   Processing facility, or operation, for medical marijuana owned and
operated by a person or entity licensed pursuant to 63 O.S. § 423 and
constructed, operated, secured, and maintained in strict compliance with
Oklahoma law, including 63 O.S. § 420, et seq., and all rules and regulations
promulgated by the Oklahoma State Department of Health and Oklahoma Medical
Marijuana Authority. (Ord. No. 747, §2,07-15-2019)
   C)   Exclusions: Uses that are specifically excluded from the C-2 Commercial
District include, but are not limited to, the following:
   1)   Abortion Clinics;
   2)   Adult Bookstores;
   3)   Adult Entertainment Establishments;
   4)   Alcoholic Beverage Establishment meaning any beer or wine
establishment, or bottle club, which has been licensed by the Alcoholic
beverage Law Enforcement Commission and which has as its main purpose the
selling or serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises.
(State Law Reference --Title 37 O.S. §§ 518.3, as amended.)
   5)   Bed & Breakfast;
   6)   Bingo & Similar Gaming Operations;
   7)   Manufacturing & Assembly Facility;
   8)   Pool or Billiard Hall;
   9)   Palm Reader, Tea Reader. Card Reader, Psychic, Fortune Teller, or other
Similar Spiritualist;
   10)   Storage & Warehousing Facility;
   11)   Telemarketing, call centers;
   12)   Vocational School, Business College, Public or Private Schools.
   Ord. No. 734, §3, 01-15-2018.
   D)   All other uses not listed in this section are specifically excluded
from the C-2 Commercial District.
   E)   Any church located in the C-2 Commercial District as of October 19,
2004, shall not be considered a non-conforming use and therefore shall not be
subject to the limitations provided in Division 5 of this Chapter pertaining to
non-conformances. Nothing herein shall prevent an existing church from using C-
2 Commercial properties already in church ownership as of October 19, 2004, or
from acquiring adjacent or nearby C-2 property, provided however that the
church will be required to obtain a Specific Use Permit or obtain re-zoning
from C-2 Commercial to C-1 Commercial prior to extending church operations,
programs, or activities to any such property purchased after October 19, 2004.
   F)   Any residence or accessory building or accessory structure associated
thereto that is situated on any property at the time the property is zoned as
C-2 Commercial District shall be razed and removed from the property before the
property may be used for any of the purposes provided for in this section.
(Code 1976, §12-6-7; Ord. No. 505, §2, 9-20-1994; Ord. No. 596 §8, 10-19-2004)
Sec. 24-189. Area regulations.
   The area requirements for buildings and accessory buildings and structures
in the C-2 Commercial District shall be as follows:
   (1)   Front yard.
   (a)   All main buildings, accessory buildings and accessory structures shall
set back from the front property line to provide a front yard having not less
than twenty-five (25) feet in depth, provided however, that the structural
support columns of automotive service station canopies and service islands
shall be set back from the street right-of-way to provide a front yard of not
less than fifteen (15) feet in depth.
   (b)   Where the dedicated street right-of-way is less than fifty (50) feet,
the depth of the front yard shall be measured at a starting point twenty-five
(25) feet from the centerline of the street easement.
   (2)   Side yard.
   (a)   There shall be no side yard set back in the C-2 Commercial District
for main buildings, accessory buildings, or accessory structures except as
follows:
   (1)   When a side yard is adjacent to the A-1 Single Family Residential
district no main building, accessory building or accessory structure shall be
located closer than fifteen (15) feet from any adjoining residential lot line,
provided however, when a side yard is adjacent to property developed for
multifamily residential use, no main building, accessory building, or accessory
structure shall be located closer than five (5) feet from the adjoining
residential lot line. (Ord. No. 541, §1, 8-4-98)
   (2)   No main building shall be built or placed closer than three (3) feet
from any utility easement.
   (3)   No accessory building or accessory structure, except temporary or
portable buildings, shall be built or placed closer than three (3) feet from
any side or rear lot line or closer than three (3) feet from any utility
easement.
   (3)   Rear yard.
   (a)   There shall be no rear yard set back in the C-2 Commercial District
for main buildings, accessory buildings, or accessory structures except as
follows:
   (1)   When a rear yard is adjacent to the A-1 Single Family Residential
district no main building, accessory building or accessory structure shall be
located closer than thirty (30) feet from any adjoining residential lot line,
provided however, when a rear yard is adjacent to property developed for
multifamily residential use, no main building, accessory building, or accessory
structure shall be located closer than five (5) feet from the adjoining
residential lot line. (Ord. No. 541, §2, 8-4-98)
   (2)   No main building shall be built or placed closer than three (3) feet
from any utility easement.
   (3)   No accessory building or accessory structure, except temporary or
portable buildings, shall be built or placed closer than three (3) feet from
any rear lot line or closer than three (3) feet from any utility easement.
   (4)   Lot size. No minimum lot sizes and open spaces are prescribed for
permitted uses in the C-2 Commercial District. It is the intent of this chapter
that lots of sufficient size be used by any permitted use to provide adequate
parking and loading and unloading space required for operation of the use.
   (5)   Coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall not cover more than
thirty-five (35) percent of the total lot area and in no case shall the total
gross floor area of the main building exceed the area of the lot.
   (6)   Screening. Whenever any commercial district or parking area is
established so as to abut the side or rear line of a lot in a residential
district an opaque ornamental fence, or wall, not less than six (6) feet high
shall be constructed and maintained in good condition along said side or rear
lot line up to, but not beyond, the abutting residential setback building line,
except where the front yard is used for off-street parking, then the provisions
of Article IV of this chapter, pertaining to off-street parking lots, shall
apply. In addition, the lighting, including any permitted illuminated sign,
shall be arranged so that there will be no annoying glare directed or reflected
toward residential buildings in a residential district.
   (7)   Open space. No open space, lot area, frontage or off-street parking
area required for any main building and accessory building, or use associated
thereto shall, during its life, be occupied by or shared by, or counted as part
of the area requirement or open space, lot area, frontage, or off-street
parking for any other primary or main building or accessory building or use
associated thereto.
   (8)   Street access. A public street shall form the direct and primary means
of ingress and egress for all permitted uses in the C-2 Commercial District.
Alleys, where they exist, shall form only a secondary means of ingress and
egress. If a permitted use is located on a lot, which does not immediately
abut, or face a public street, as in a shopping center, public street access
may be from a common parking lot or private drive.
   (9)   Height requirements.
   (a)   No main building or accessory building shall exceed forty-eight (48)
feet in height. Any such main building or accessory building shall have no more
than four (4) stories.
   (b)   Chimneys, elevators, poles, tanks, towers, spires, steeples, bell
towers and other similar projections not intended for human occupancy may be
erected to a height above the maximum height permitted herein but shall be
subject to height limitations established by other applicable building codes.
   (c)   For every building or structure that exceeds twenty-four (24) feet in
height up to a maximum of thirty-six (36) feet, a five-foot setback shall be
added to every one foot of building height over twenty-four (24) feet in
addition to the required minimum required setbacks.
   (d)   For every building or structure that exceeds the height of thirty-six
(36) feet up to a maximum height of forty-eight (48) feet there shall be four
(4) feet of setback to every one (1) foot of building height over thirty-six
(36) feet in addition to the other maximum setback requirements in paragraph
(c) above.
   (e)   Parapet walls shall not exceed four (4) feet and shall not be less
than three (3) feet in height. Such parapet walls shall not be counted in
computing the overall building height.
(Code 1976, §12-4-3(C); §12-6-2(1); §12-6-2(3); §12-6-2(4); Ord. No. 289, §3,
4-21-81; Ord. No. 505 §2, 9-20-94; Ord. No. 541, §1, §2, 8-4-98)
DIVISION 4.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
Sec. 24-200. Scope and Intent.
   (a)   This division applies to the PUD Planned Unit Development Districts.
   (b)   It is the intent of this division to establish planned unit
development requirements and procedures, which permit flexibility in the
regulation of land development; encourage innovation in land use and variety in
design, layout and type of structures constructed; achieve efficiency in the
use of land, natural resources, energy and the providing of public services and
utilities; encourage useful open space; and provide better housing, employment,
and shopping opportunities particularly suited to the needs of the residents of
the city.
   (c)   Within a designated planned unit development, conditions relating to
the use of land, including but not limited to, permitted uses, lot sizes,
setbacks, height limits, required facilities, buffers, open space areas,
lighting, signage, landscaping, parking, and loading, compatibility and land
use density shall be determined in accordance with the planned unit development
regulations contained in this division. The planned unit development conditions
need not be uniform with regard to each type of land use if equitable
procedures recognizing due process principles and avoiding arbitrary decisions
have been followed in making regulatory decisions.
State law reference--Similar provisions 11 O.S. §43-110
(Ord. No. 505, §2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 24-201. Compliance.
   A Planned Unit Development may be authorized in any district, provided that
all of the provisions of this division are complied with.
Sec. 24-202. Application and review procedures.
   (a)    The developer of a PUD shall adhere to the following application and
review procedures:
      (1)    Application for rezoning submission of PUD master plan including a
design statement and master development plan map.
      (2)    Submission of preliminary plat.
      (3)    Review of traffic flow, proposed curb cuts, traffic control
devices and other safety related concerns expressed by the City Manager or his
or her designee, or by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (4)    At least one (1) public hearing shall be held on the application
for rezoning, the PUD master plan, and plat by the planning and zoning
commission in accordance with the provisions of Sections
24-61,
24-62 and
24-63 of this chapter.
      (5)    Application for review of site plan and building plans shall be
made to the planning and zoning commission.
      (7)   Application for site plan approval and building permit(s) approval
shall be made to the city council.
   (b) Application for rezoning and planned unit development master plan:
      (1)    The PUD application for rezoning shall be filed in accordance with
regular procedures and on application forms of the City of The Village. The PUD
master plan, which is submitted with application for rezoning, shall consist of
a design statement and a master development plan map. The applicant shall also
provide other supporting maps as necessary to meet submission requirements of
this section.
         (a)   The master development plan map shall be a graphic
representation of the development plan for the area, prepared at a scale
appropriate for the size of the project but no less than the minimum required
for preliminary plats. The purpose of the map is to conceptually portray the
development commitments described in the PUD design statement. The map shall
show the following:
            (1)   Location of proposed land uses, and residential densities;
            (2)   Location of collector streets within the PUD and adjacent
arterial streets;
            (3)   Sufficient surrounding area to demonstrate the relationship
to the PUD to adjoining uses, both existing and proposed;
            (4)   Location and approximate size of proposed open space and
recreation areas;
            (5)   Areas where access to streets will be limited and location of
driveways where appropriate;
            (6)   Any other pertinent information necessary for review,
approval, and administration of the PUD.
         (b)   The PUD design statement shall be a written report submitted as
a part of the PUD master plan containing a minimum of the following elements:
            (1)   Title of the PUD;
            (2)   List of the owners and/or developers;
            (3)   Statement on the general location and relationship to
adjoining land uses both existing and proposed;
            (4)   Description of the PUD concept, including an acreage or
square foot breakdown of land use areas and densities proposed, a general
description proposed, a general description of building use types, proposed
restrictions, and typical site layouts;
            (5)    The existing PUD zoning districts in the development area
and surrounding it;
            (6)    A list of all special development regulations or the
conventional zoning district regulations, which will be applicable; plus, a
list of requested variations to the other applicable development regulations;
            (7)   A statement on the existing and proposed streets, including
right-of-way standards and street design concepts;
            (8)   The following physical characteristics; elevation, slope
analysis, soil characteristics, tree cover, and drainage information;
            (9)   A topographic map with minimum five (5) foot contour
intervals;
            (10)   Drainage information, including number of acres in drainage
area and delineation of applicable flood levels;
            (11)   A statement of utility lines and services to be installed,
including which lines will be dedicated to the city and which ones will remain
private;
            (12)   The proposed densities, and the types and sizes of
structures; and
            (13)   A description of the proposed sequence of development.
(Ord. No. 776, § 4, 10-14-24)
Sec. 24-203. Design standards.
   (1)   The proposed PUD shall be designed to provide for the unified
development of the area in accordance with the spirit and purpose of the land
uses and zoning districts adjacent to it.
   (2)   Design of the PUD may provide for modification of conventional zoning
ordinance requirements for such elements as yard areas, densities, setback,
height, lot coverage, landscaping, and off-street parking. (Ord. No. 639, §1,
03-17-2009)
   (3)   The minimum size of the site on which a PUD shall be located shall not
be less than four (4) standard-size residential lots of at least seven thousand
two hundred square feet each for residential developments.
   (4)   Building codes and other related city code development requirements
shall not be reduced in the design of a PUD.
   (5)   Location and type of housing shall be established in a general pattern
and shown on the master development plan map.
(Ord. No. 401, §1, 1-19-88; 2014 City Code)
Sec. 24-204. Minimum design and construction standards for streets and alleys.
   Streets and alleys for a PUD shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with city standards and specifications for right-of-way width and paving cross
section; provided that modifications may be requested and approved as a part of
the master plan if the following criteria are met:
   (1)   Public streets and alleys. Proposed public street and alley
modifications shall satisfy the following criteria:
   (a)   Street right-of-way and paving widths shall be adequate to provide a
traffic carrying and utility installation capacity related to the design of the
overall street system, the function of the individual street, and the land uses
served.
   (b)   Paving cross sections shall be designed to be adequate to provide
acceptable drainage in conformity with the drainage plan for the PUD; to
receive loading commensurate with anticipated traffic based on the design of
the overall street system; and to have a maintenance level commensurate with
that of facilities constructed to regular standards.
   (2)   Private streets and alleys. Proposed private street and alley
modifications shall satisfy the criteria for public facility modifications
listed above and the following:
   (a)   Private streets shall not be connected to an adjacent parcel, which is
not part of the PUD in a manner that will circulate traffic into and through
the private street system.
   (b)   The owner/applicant shall clearly demonstrate the existence and
capabilities of a property or homeowners association to provide the ongoing and
long-term maintenance of the private street and alley facilities that will not
be provided by the city.
   (c)   The owner/applicant shall clearly demonstrate the accessibility of
emergency and sanitation equipment to all proposed structures served by private
streets and alleys.
   (d)   The owner/applicant shall clearly demonstrate the adequacy of on and
off-street parking for all property served by private streets and alleys.
(Ord. No. 401, §1, 1-19-88)
Cross reference--Chapter 25, Subdivision Regulations.
Sec. 24-205. General design and development guidelines.
   (1)   Densities. Proposed residential densities should be compatible with
adjacent developed neighborhoods.
   (2)   Amenities. Amenities should be considered as an important
justification for development and city approval of a PUD. Where densities are
to be increased to promote the economy of development, or where other methods
of land use intensification are proposed, usable open space should be furnished
along with provision for its permanent retention and continued maintenance.
Sidewalks and pedestrian ways should be planned where it is necessary to
provide for amenity and public safety.
   (3)   Streets:
   (a)   Street design should restrict through traffic from residential areas
as much as possible.
   (b)   Encouragement should be given to design of short local streets serving
limited areas, such as the residential cul-de-sac. Reduction of conventional
minor street design widths should be considered appropriate on such streets
when they are designed with limited length and only one access point.
   (c)   Reduction of design widths on streets designed in a conventional
pattern should not be approved.
   (d)   Development of a private street system should be considered
appropriate under certain conditions where there is no through traffic.
However, a private street system should not serve as a reason for reduction of
minimum design and paving standards.
   (e)   On-street parking bays or other similar areas where vehicles must back
into the traffic flow should not be approved on arterial or collector streets
or any local street; provided, however, that certain cul-de-sac or small loop
street designs may be considered as appropriate.
   (f)   Off-street parking. The off-street parking requirements set forth in
Article IV of this chapter for residential and mixed-use Planned Unit
Developments may be complied with by providing one (1) or more permanent,
common, off-street facilities for all uses within the development, provided
that the facility contains the requisite number of spaces for each use, and
that the spaces provided for permanent residents shall be clearly designated
and separated from spaces provided for employees, customers, and service. The
total spaces provided shall not be less than the sum of the individual
requirements and the spaces required for each use and shall be under the
ownership or permanent control of the owners of the use for which the spaces
are required. (Ord. No. 639, §2, 03-17-2009)
   (4)   Relationship to abutting uses:
   (a)   The master development plan map should show graphically the treatments
that will be employed to separate the PUD from abutting properties, including
commitments to landscaping, screening, earth berms, retention ponds, drainage
channelization, or similar techniques.
   (b)   It is appropriate to specifically establish areas with height
limitations where a transition to more intense uses is proposed or where a
higher intensity development is proposed to abut a lower intensity area.
   (5)   Mixed land use developments. Where a PUD proposes a mix of uses, which
may generally be incompatible with a conventional development, the PUD master
plan should specifically establish appropriate guidelines to assure a
harmonious development.
(Ord. No. 401, §1, 1-19-88)
Cross reference--Chapter 25, Subdivision regulations, Sections 25-18, 25-19,
25-20 and 25-30.
Sec. 24-206. Approval of PUD.
   (a)   Within a reasonable time after holding the public hearing, the city
council shall deny the request, approve the request, or approve the request
with conditions.
State law reference--Similar provisions 11 O.S. §43-110.
   (b)   Upon final approval by the city council of the PUD master plan and the
appropriate approval of rezoning, these elements shall become a part of the
official zoning districts map.
   (c)   The approved PUD Master Plan shall control the use and    development
of the property, and all building permits and development requests shall be in
accord with said plan until it is otherwise amended by the city council as
provided herein. The developer shall furnish a reproducible copy of the
approved master plan map for signature by the chairman of the planning and
zoning commission, the mayor, and acknowledgment by the city clerk. The PUD
master plan, including the signed map, shall be made a part of the permanent
file, and maintained by the city clerk.
(Ord, No. 401, §1-19-88; Ord. No. 505, §2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 24-207. Conditional approval of PUD.
   (a)   Reasonable conditions may be required by the city council in
conjunction with the approval of a planned unit development. Conditions imposed
shall:
   (1)   Be designed to take into consideration natural environment, the
health, safety and welfare of the residents, and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as a whole.
   (2)   Be related to the valid exercise of police power, and to the proposed
use or activity.
   (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the zoning
requirements; be related to the standards established by this article for the
land use or activity under consideration; and be necessary to ensure compliance
with those standards.
   (b)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a land use or
activity shall be stated in the record of the approval actions and shall not be
changed or amended except as provided herein.
Sec. 24-208. Plan changes.
   Any deviation from the plans of a planned unit development submitted at the
time of rezoning shall constitute a violation of the rezoning and changes in
plans shall be resubmitted for review following the same procedure required in
the original adoption of the plan. The city council shall maintain a record of
the conditions, which are changed.
Sec. 24-209. Time limit.
   The construction of planned unit development shall be started within one (1)
year of the effective date of the approval of plans by the city council.
Failure to begin the development within said one (1) year shall automatically
void the development plans and the land shall revert to the same zoning
classification which existed immediately preceding the approval of the PUD,
provided however, that prior to the expiration of the development plans, the
city council may extend the PUD in increments of one (1) year upon written
request by the owner/developer.
(Ord. No. 401, §1, 1-19-88)
Sec. 24-210. Application fee.
   The fee for filing a petition to obtain approval of a planned unit
development shall be as established by resolution. The fee shall be payable
upon receipt of the petition by the city clerk, such receipt to be a prior
condition to any action on the petition by the city. The fee shall be
nonrefundable, regardless of the disposition of the application.
Secs. 24-211--24-249. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
Sec. 24-250. Generally.
   It is the intent of this division that adequate parking and loading
facilities be provided off the street for each use of land within the city.
Requirements are intended to be based on the demand created by each use. These
requirements shall apply to all uses in all districts except as otherwise
indicated.
(Code 1976, § 12-5-1; Ord. No. 461, §3, 11-5-91)
Cross reference--
Chapter 25, Section
25-11(b).
Sec. 24-251. Size of parking space.
The size of a parking space for one (1) vehicle shall consist of a space
containing an area as specified by the following tables and legend:
   a)   Legend for Tables 1, 2 & 3:
   1.   Stall Angle
   2.   Stall Width
   3.   Vehicle Projection for 18' Stall Length
   4.   Curb Length Per Car
   5.   Aisle Width
   6.   Wall to Wall Width for Double Aisle
   7.   Overlap Center to Overlap Center Width for Double Aisle.
   b)   Table 1 - Parking Layout Dimensions for 8'6" and 9'0" (Minimum
Standards) at Various Angles with One-Way Aisles.
TABLE 1
A B C D E F G
TABLE 1
A   B     C    D    E    F    G
45°8’618.7 12.0 12.8 50.2 44.5
    9’019.1 12.7 12.3 50.5 44.7
60°8’.619.8 9.8  17.8 57.2 53.2
    9’020.1 10.4 17.1 57.3 53
75°8’619.6 8.8  20.3 60.0 57.9
    9’019.7 9.3  20.6 60.0 57.7
 
   c)   Table 2 - Parking Layout Dimensions for 8'6" and 9'0" (Minimum
Standards) at Various Angles with Two-Way Aisles.
TABLE 2
A B C D E F G
TABLE 2
A   B     C    D    E    F    G
45°8'6"  18.7 12.0 22.6 60.0 54.3
    9'0"  19.1 12.7 21.8 60.0 54.2
60°8'.6" 19.8 9.8  20.4 60.0 56.0
    9'0"  20.1 10.4 19.8 60.0 55.7
75°8'6"  19.6 8.8  20.8 60.0 57.9
    9'0"  19.7 9.3  20.6 60.0 57.7
 
   d)   Table 3 - Parking Layout Dimensions for 8'6" and 9'0" (Minimum
Standards) at 0° and 90° Angles.
 
TABLE 3
A   B    C    D    E      F
0° 8'0" 8.0  22.0 12.0   28.0 (1-WAY)
                   (24.0) (40.0) (2-WAY)
90°8'6" 18.0 8.5  24.0   60.0
    9'0" 18.0 9.0  24.0   60.0
 
(Code 1976, §12-5-6; Ord. No. 462, §1, 11-19-91; Ord. No. 580 § 1, 1-7-03)
Cross reference--
Chapter 24, Definition parking space, Section
24-1.
Sec. 24-252. Joint parking facilities.
   Whenever two (2) or more uses are located together in a common building,
shopping center, integrated building complex, or adjacent parcels, the parking
requirements may be complied with by providing a permanent common parking
facility, cooperatively established, and operated, which contains the requisite
number of spaces each commercial use within the common building, shopping
center, or other integrated building complex as provided in Section 24-254
herein. Where different non-residential uses create staggered parking demand
periods, shared parking calculations among collocated uses may be used to
justify reducing the amount of required parking.
(Ord. No. 580 § 2, 1-7-03; Ord. No. 716 § 1 12-05-16)
Sec. 24-253. Off-street parking lots, construction, maintenance.
   (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply to off-street parking lots
that are incidental to any use other than a single-family residence.
   (a)   All off-street parking lots shall be located within two hundred (200)
feet, exclusive of street and alley widths, of the principal use and shall have
direct access to a street or alley, except as otherwise provided herein.
   (b)   Off-street parking or loading space shall be a part of the required
open space associated with a permitted use and shall not be reduced or
encroached upon in any manner.
   (c)   The land upon which the off-street parking lot is located shall be
owned or controlled by the same entity, which owns or controls the land on
which the principal use is located.
   (d)   All sides of any off-street parking lot abutting a residential lot
shall be enclosed with an opaque, ornamental fence or wall having a height of
not less than six (6) feet. Such fence or wall shall be maintained in good
condition.
   (e)   No off-street parking lot shall be permitted within five (5) feet of
the property line of any abutting residential lot. In all other cases no
setback shall be required; provided, however, that on any corner lot formed by
two (2) intersecting streets no parking shall be permitted, and no wall, fence,
sign, structure or plant growth having a height in excess of two (2) feet above
the elevation of the site where the wall, fence, sign, structure or plant is
located shall be maintained in a triangle formed by measuring a distance of
twenty-five (25) feet along said front and the points so established to form a
triangle on the area of the lot adjacent to the street intersection.
   (f)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall not exceed twenty-five
(25) feet in width, exclusive of curb returns.
   (g)   The intensity of lights and arrangements of reflectors shall be such
as not to interfere with residential district use.
   (h)   No sign of any kind shall be erected except information signs used to
guide traffic and to state the conditions and terms of the use of the lot. Only
nonintermittent incandescent lighting of signs shall be permitted.
   (i) The number of egress and ingress driveways permitted on street frontage
shall not exceed one (1) opening per fifty (50) feet.
(Code 1976, §12-5-3; §12-5-5; §12-5-8; Ord. No. 366, §1, 6-17-86; Ord. No. 461,
§ 5, 11-5-91; Ord. No. 505, §2, 9-20-94)
Sec. 24-254. Schedule of requirements.
   (a)   Required Parking Spaces. Uses should offer only the minimum amount of
parking that is necessary to meet anticipated normal demand. The number of
required off-street parking spaces for different use classifications are as
follows:
Use Classification Required Spaces (minimum) Maximum Spaces
Use Classification        Required Spaces (minimum)  Maximum Spaces
Retail Uses               1 per 400 sq. ft. gross    1 per 200 sq. ft. gross
                          floor area                 floor area
Office and Service Uses
(includes medical offices 1 per 400 sq. ft. gross    1 per 200 sq. ft. gross
and clinics, professional floor area                 floor area
office space)
Dwelling, single-family   2 per dwelling             n/a
Dwelling, multiple family 1.5 per dwelling           n/a
                          0.5 per bed plus 1 per 500 0.75 per bed plus 1 per
                          sq. ft. gross floor area   250 sq. ft. gross floor
Hospital                  for inpatient treatment    area for inpatient
                          plus 1 per 400 sq. ft.     treatment plus 1 per 200
                          gross floor area for       sq. ft. gross floor area
                          outpatient treatment area  for outpatient treatment
Sanatoriums,              1 per employee plus 1 per
convalescent, or nursing  4 residents                n/a
homes
Community Center,
theater, auditorium,      1 per 4 seats              1 per 2 seats
stadium/sports venue
Convention hall, lodge,
club, library, museum,    1 per 500 sq. ft. gross    1 per 100 sq. ft. gross
place of amusement or     floor area                 floor area
recreation.
Restaurants and eating    1 per 150 sq. ft. gross    1 per 75 sq. ft. gross
establishments            floor area                 floor area
Place of worship or       1 per 5 seats in primary   1 per 3 seats in primary
assembly                  sanctuary or assembly area sanctuary or assembly area
Elementary school, middle 1 per 10 classroom seats   1 per 10 classroom seats
school
High school               1 per 10 classroom seats   1 per 3 classroom seats
Light industrial uses and 1 per 1,000 sq. ft. gross  1 per 300 sq. ft. gross
trade uses                floor area                 floor area
                          For all permitted uses not specifically listed in
                          this table, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
All other uses            make a determination of the parking demand to be
                          created by the proposed use and set that demand
                          number as the off-street parking requirement for that
                          use
 
   (b)   Variation from maximum parking requirements. The City Council may
allow variations to exceed the maximum parking requirements if the developer or
business owner requesting the variation shows that the permitted maximum number
of spaces will not meet the normal day-to-day needs of a proposed use.
Corporate standards or worst-case scenarios based on rare events are not
grounds for granting such variations. The City Council may place conditions on
any granted variation, such are requiring porous of textured pavement or
additional landscaping.
   (c)   On-Street Parking. Designated on-street parking spaces no more than
200 ft. from the main entrance of a building with a non-residential or
multifamily residential use may be counted towards the required amount of
parking spaces for that use. On-street parking being counted towards the
required amount of parking spaces for any use must not encroach into single-
family residential areas.
(Code 1976, §12-5-7; Ord. No. 580, § 3, 1-7-03; Ord. No. 716 § 1, 12-05-16)
ARTICLE V. BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS
DIVISION 1. SINGLE-, TWO-, THREE-, AND
FOUR-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
Sec. 24-300. Intent.
Architecture is a major contributing factor to a community's sense of place.
Building design must contribute to The Village's sense of place by using
predominant materials, elements, features, color range and activity areas
tailored specifically to the site and its context. Building design regulations
are intended to promote quality architecture and preserve the City of The
Village's sense of place.
Sec. 24-301. Applicability.
The provisions of this Division apply to all single-family, two-family, three-
family, and four-family residential buildings in all zoning districts.
Sec. 24-302. Façades.
Facades must be articulated by using color, arrangement, or change in materials
to emphasize the façade elements. Exterior wall planes may be varied in height,
depth, or direction. Design elements and detailing, including the presentation
of windows and window treatments (for walls that face the public right-of-way),
trim detailing, and exterior wall materials, must be continued completely
around the structure. Doors and windows must be detailed to add visual interest
to the façade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2935.png]
 
Sec. 24-303. Repetitive Design.
Development of ten or more single-, two-, three-, or four-family residential
buildings must have five or more different elevations, or a number of
elevations equal to at least 10% of the number of lots in the development
phase, whichever is more. (Different trim levels on houses with a nearly
identical floor plan are not considered different elevations.) Houses of the
same elevation, including those with identical, similar, or mirrored floor
plans, cannot be placed on adjacent lots or directly across the street from
each other.
Sec. 24-304. Required Elements.
Single-, two-, three-, and four-family residential buildings must include at
least one of the following elements:
   (a)   Either:
      o   Side, rear, or alley-loaded garage, or detached garage; or
      o   Front-loading garage comprising no more than 50% of the total length
of the front façade and protrudes no more than 6 ft. from the longest front
wall;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2933.png]
 
   (b)   Masonry wainscot at least 4 ft. on all exterior walls, if the side and
rear walls are not constructed of those materials;
   (c)   Functional front porch at least 100 sq. ft. in size;
   (d)   One of the following green building certifications:
      o   National Association of Homebuilders National Green Building Program:
ANSI ICC 700-2008 National Green Building Standard, Bronze, Silver, or Gold; or
      o   U.S. Green Building Council Leadership in Energy and Environmental
Design (LEED): Certified, Silver, Gold, or Platinum.
Sec. 24-305. Mechanical Equipment Screening.
   (a)   Rooftop mechanical equipment is prohibited.
   (b)   Ground-mounted mechanical equipment (air conditioning units, utility
boxes, etc.) must be hidden or screened with architecturally integrated wing
walls or living screening material that will grow to the same height as the
equipment being screened or placed where they are not visible from the public
right-of-way.
   (c)   Solar panels are exempt from the mechanical equipment screening
standards.
Sec. 24-306. Building Materials.
Predominant building exterior materials must be high quality and used in their
natural context and color. Masonry must be used as dominant (at least 50% of
exterior surface area) exterior materials. Wood and fiber-cement siding are
examples of appropriate secondary materials.
Secs. 24-307-24-324. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. MULTIFAMILY, COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, PUBLIC,
INSTITUTIONAL, AND MIXED-USE BUILDINGS
Sec. 24-325. Intent.
Building design must contribute to The Village's sense of place by using
predominant materials, elements, features, color range and activity areas
tailored specifically to the site and its context. Standard formula or
prototype building designs must be modified, if necessary, to conform to these
design standards. In multifamily housing, shopping and commercial centers, or
multiple building developments, individual buildings must include predominant
characteristics shared by all buildings in the development, so the development
forms a cohesive place.
Sec. 24-326. Applicability.
The provisions of this Division apply to all commercial, office, public,
Institutional, and mixed-use buildings in all zoning districts, except for
temporary classroom buildings permitted in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 6, Section 6-202 of The Village City Code. (Ord. No. 743 §2, 03-18-
2019)
Sec. 24-327. Architectural style.
   a)   Distinct groups of buildings on a site must share a common,
identifiable, complementary design or style. This includes accessory structures
such as freestanding canopies, accessory and maintenance buildings, and
dumpster enclosures.
   b)   A building must have a single definitive, consistent style. Mixing of
various architectural styles on the same building is discouraged.
Sec. 24-328. Form and mass.
A single, large, dominant building mass must be avoided in new buildings and
projects involving changes to the mass of existing buildings. Changes in mass
should be related to entrances, tenant spaces, the integral structure and/or
the interior space organization and activities, and not just for cosmetic
effect. Storefronts along a dominant mass and incorporating only changes in
color and/or parapet treatment to distinguish each storefront are prohibited.
Sec. 24-329. Exterior walls.
   (a)   Base and top.
      Façades and walls must have a recognizable base with (but not limited
to):
      o   thicker walls, ledges, or sills;
      o   integrally textured materials such as stone or other masonry;
      o   integrally colored and patterned materials such as smooth-finished
stone;
      o   lighter or darker colored materials, mullions, or panels; or
      o   planters;
      o   and a recognizable top with (but not limited to):
      o   cornice treatments, other than colored stripes or bands alone, with
integrally textured materials such as stone or other masonry or differently
colored materials;
      o   sloping roof with overhangs and brackets; or
      o   stepped parapets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2931.png]
 
   (b)   Four-sided design.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2929.png]
 
      All walls must include materials design characteristics consistent with
those on the front.
   (c)   Long walls and façades; projections and recesses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2927.png]
 
      Walls at least 100 ft. long must include wall plane projections or
recesses having at least 3% depth of the façade length and extending at least
20% of the façade length. Corporate Office Complexes are exempt from the
requirements of this paragraph. (Ord. No. 750 §2, 10-21-2019)
   (d)   Exterior walls.
   Exterior walls cannot have a blank, uninterrupted length greater than 30 ft.
without including two or more of these features: change in plane, change in
texture or masonry pattern, windows, or other equivalent element(s) that
subdivide the wall into human scale proportions. Side or rear walls may include
false windows and door openings defined by frames, sills and lintels, or
similarly proportioned modulations, only when actual doors and windows are not
possible because of the building use.
   (e)   Primary building entrances.
   Primary building entrances must be clearly defined and recessed or framed by
a sheltering element such as an awning, arcade, or portico to provide shelter
from the sun and inclement weather.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2925.png]
 
   (f)   Retail building entrances.
   Anchor stores, freestanding/single-use buildings, and at least 25% of the
stores in a shopping center must have a clearly defined, highly visible
customer entrance with four or more of the following elements:
   o   Arcades
   o   Canopies or porticos
   o   Details such as tile work and moldings integrated into the building
structure and design
   o   Display windows
   o   Integral planters or wing walls that include landscaped areas and/or
places for sitting
   o   Outdoor patios
`   o   Overhangs
   o   Peaked roof forms
   o   Raised corniced parapets over the door
   o   Recesses and/or projections
Additionally, at least 50% of the stores in a shopping center must have two or
more of the elements listed above.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2923.png]
 
   (g)   Awnings.
   Awnings may only be used in detached increments above individual windows,
doors, entries, or retail frontages.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2921.png]
 
   (h)   Transparency in commercial buildings.
   (1)   At ground level, buildings must have a high level of transparency.
Façades and walls that face the street, pedestrian walkways, plazas, and
parking areas (excluding the building rear) must have windows or otherwise be
transparent at least 50% of its surface area between ground level and 12 ft.
above grade.
   (2)   Side walls must have windows or otherwise be transparent at least 15%
of its surface area between ground level and 12 ft. above grade.
   (3)   Where the internal arrangement of a building makes it impossible to
provide transparency along a portion of a wall, a combination of sculptural,
mosaic, or bas-relief artwork and transparent window areas or displays may
substitute for 50% of required transparent areas, except when fronting plaza
areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2919.png]
 
Good door and window coverage on prominent elevations
   (i)   Garage doors.
   (1)   Garage bay doors must be segmented, with windows covering at least 50%
of the garage surface. Garage doors must be recessed at least 2 ft. behind the
building façade.
   (2)   Vehicle service areas and bays must be screened or sited so visibility
from the public right-of-way is as low as possible.
   (3)   Garage bay doors must be integrated into the overall design of the
site with color, texture, and windows.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2917.png]
 
Sec. 24-330. Building roofs.
   (a)   Roof form design.
Roof forms must correspond to and denote building elements and functions such
as entrances, arcades, and porches. Roof forms should relate to adjacent
buildings or developments.
   (b)   Required features.
   Sloping roofs must have one of the following features:
   o   Overhanging eaves, extending at least 1.5 ft. past the supporting walls.
   o   Sloping roofs that do not exceed the average height of the supporting
walls, with an average slope of at least 1 ft. of vertical rise for every 3 ft.
of horizontal run and no more than 1 ft. of vertical rise for every 1 ft. of
horizontal run.
   (c)   Roof lines.
   The continuous plane of a roof line must be no more than 100 ft. Corporate
Office Complexes may contain structures having a continuous plane of a roof
line greater than 100 ft., provided the structures include similar
architectural treatment or motifs as seen in other buildings within the
complex. (Ord. No. 750 §3, 10-21-2019)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2915.png]
 
   (d)   Drive-through areas.
   Drive through areas must be architecturally integrated into the host
structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2913.png]
 
Sec. 24-331. Canopies.
   (a)   Architectural integration.
   Canopies must include design elements found on the main building, including
color, materials, and roof pitch.
   (b)   Canopy support poles.
   Canopy support poles must include either (1) decorative corbels or other
architectural embellishment consistent with the overall architectural theme of
the site, or (2) pole covers at least 18 in. wide with a similar surface
material and architectural treatments as the dominant material on the main
structure. (Ord. No. 750 §4, 10-21-2019)
   (c)   Canopy fascia.
   Canopy facias must be the same color as the dominant color of the main
building. Striping and banding on canopies is prohibited.
Sec. 24-332. Materials and color.
   (a)   Building materials.
   (1)   Predominant building exterior materials must be high quality and used
in their natural context and color. Masonry (stone, brick, decorative CMU, and
similar materials) must be used as dominant (at least 50% of exterior surface
area) exterior materials. Non-retail buildings may also use glass as a dominant
exterior material. Corporate Office Complexes may use EIFS as a dominant
exterior building material if consistent with other buildings within the
complex. Fiber-cement siding and textured concrete/EIFS are examples of
appropriate secondary exterior materials.
   (2)   EIFS used as a building material may only consist of high-impact-
resistant EIFS with Drainage and may only be used at least two (2) feet above
ground elevation. Corporate Office Complexes may include EIFS no lower than one
(1) foot above ground elevation if it can be demonstrated that there will not
be a risk of regular contact with objects that may impact or damage the
material.
   (3)   Building-integrated photovoltaics (BIPV) may substitute for any amount
of predominant and secondary exterior materials.
   (4)   Smooth-faced concrete block, painted masonry, and tilt-up and precast
concrete panels are prohibited.
   (5)   T-1-11 and other plywood-based siding materials are prohibited.
   (6)   Prefabricated and pre-engineered metal buildings and panels are
prohibited.
(Ord. No. 750, §5. 10-21-2019)
   (b)   Roof materials.
   (1)   Roof materials must be high quality, durable and consistent with local
architectural themes. Acceptable roof materials include concrete tile, clay
tile, high profile asphalt shingles, metal shingles, flat seam metal roofing,
masonry or other flat roofing materials, photovoltaic roof tiles and shingles,
and solar panels.
   (2)   Green roofs are permitted and strongly encouraged.
   (c)   Material or color changes.
Material or color changes must occur only at a change of plane or reveal line.
Material or color changes at outside corners, piecemeal embellishment, and
frequent material changes are prohibited.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2911.png]
 
Sec. 24-333. Mechanical equipment screening.
   (a)   Rooftop mechanical equipment must be hidden or screened with
architecturally integral elements at least as high as the equipment to be
screened. Makeshift equipment screens, such as wood or plastic fences, are
prohibited.
   (b)   Ground mounted mechanical equipment must be hidden or screened with
architecturally integral wing walls and/or landscaping.
   (c)   Solar panels are exempt from mechanical equipment screening standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2909.png]
 
Sec. 24-334. Utility equipment screening.
   (a)   Electrical meters, switch boxes, panels, conduit, and related utility
equipment must be placed in the most inconspicuous location possible.
   (b)   Utility equipment must be painted or coated to match the color of the
mounting surface.
   (c)   Utility equipment located in an area that may be frequently seen by
the general public must be screened with a wing wall architecturally integrated
into the host structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2907.png]
 
Secs. 24-335--24-349. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS
Sec. 24-350. Intent.
The public infrequently visits industrial sites. However, industrial buildings
are often quite visible to the city's residents and visitors. Quality
architectural design creates a professional environment that reflects
positively on The Village and its businesses. This section shall not apply to
industrial buildings or structures over 200,000 sq. ft. in area.
Sec. 24-351. Applicability.
The provisions of this Division apply to all industrial buildings in all zoning
districts.
Sec. 24-352. Character and image.
   (a)   In industrial parks, each building must include predominant
characteristics shared by all buildings in the development, so the development
forms a cohesive place.
   (b)   Distinct groups of buildings on a site must share a common,
identifiable, complementary design or style. This includes accessory structures
such as freestanding canopies, accessory and maintenance buildings, and
dumpster enclosures.
Sec. 24-353. Form and mass.
A single, large, dominant building mass should be avoided in new buildings and,
as much as possible, in projects involving changes to the mass of existing
buildings. Changes in mass must be related to entrances, the integral structure
and/or the organization of interior spaces and activities and not merely for
cosmetic effect.
Sec. 24-354. Exterior walls and façades.
   (a)   Pattern.
   Façades and walls must include a repeating pattern with an expression of
architectural or structural bays through a change in plane, such as an offset,
reveal, pilaster, projecting ribs, fenestration patterns, or piers; and any of
the following elements:
   o   color change
   o   texture change
   o   material module change
All elements must repeat at intervals of no more than 30 ft.
   (b)   Four-sided design.
All façades and walls must include materials and design characteristics
consistent with those on the front façade. Inferior or lesser quality materials
for side or rear walls are prohibited.
   (c)   Garage doors.
Bay doors must be screened using wing walls, carefully placed berms on the
site, or other effective screening and site planning techniques, or otherwise
sited so visibility from the public right-of-way is minimized. Bay doors must
be integrated into the overall design theme of the site with color, texture,
and windows. Segmented garage bay doors with windows are preferred to roll-up
garage doors.
   (d)   Primary building entrances.
Primary building entrances must be clearly defined and recessed or framed by a
sheltering element such as an awning, arcade, or portico to provide shelter
from the sun and inclement weather.
Sec. 24-355. Building roofs.
   (a)   Green roofs.
   Green roofs and solar panels are strongly encouraged.
Sec. 24-356. Materials and color.
   (a)   Building materials.
   (1)   Durable, high quality building materials must be used. Brick, stone,
split-face CMU, EIFS with Drainage, detailed tilt-up concrete panels, and
building- integrated photovoltaics (BIPV) are examples of appropriate building
materials.
   (2)   T-1-11 and other plywood-based siding materials are prohibited.
   (3)   Prefabricated and pre-engineered metal buildings and panels are
prohibited.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2905.png]
 
   (b)   Material or color changes.
   Material or color changes must occur only at a change of plane or reveal
line. Piecemeal embellishment and frequent material changes are prohibited.
Sec. 24-357. Mechanical equipment screening.
   (a)   Rooftop mechanical equipment must be hidden or screened with
architecturally integral elements at least as high as the equipment to be
screened. Makeshift equipment screens, such as wooden or plastic fences, are
prohibited.
   (b)   Ground mounted mechanical equipment must be hidden or screened with
architecturally integral wing walls and/or landscaping.
   (c)   Solar panels are exempt from mechanical equipment screening standards.
Sec. 24-358. Utility equipment screening.
   (a)   Electrical meters, switch boxes, panels, conduit, and related utility
equipment must be placed in the most inconspicuous location possible.
   (b)   Utility equipment must be painted or coated to match the color of the
mounting surface.
   (c)   Utility equipment located in an area that may be frequently seen by
the general public must be screened with a wing wall architecturally integrated
into the host structure.
Secs. 24-359--24-399. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. SITE DESIGN STANDARDS
Division 1. Nonresidential Sites Sec. 24-400. Applicability.
The provisions of this Division apply to all non-residential development in all
zoning districts.
Sec. 24-401. Siting and orientation.
   (a)   Orientation to streets.
   (1)   The primary façade and pedestrian entrance of a building must be
oriented towards the public right-of- way when not facing an internal village
street.
   (2)   In shopping and commercial centers, and developments with multiple
buildings, buildings must be oriented towards either the perimeter streets, or
an internal drive or road network that recreates a village street, rather than
orientation only to internal parking lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2903.png]
 
   (b)   Orientation to walkways.
One main building entrance must open directly onto a connecting walkway with
pedestrian frontage. Sides of a principal building facing a public street must
have one or more customer entrances. When a principal building faces more than
two public streets, this requirement will apply only to two sides.
   (c)   Plazas.
Commercial buildings must be placed in a way that creates plazas and pedestrian
gathering areas that are large enough to buffer pedestrians from traffic and
circulation areas.
   (d)   Views.
Commercial buildings must be oriented to promote views through and into each
commercial development.
   (e)   Clustering.
Clustering of buildings in larger master planned and multiple building projects
is strongly encouraged.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2901.png]
 
   (f)   Building perimeter wall spacing from driving surfaces.
Building walls must be placed at least 10 ft. from drive aisles and parking
areas around the entire building perimeter. This buffer area may be breached
for loading areas, drive-through windows, and garage access.
   (g)   Solar orientation.
When building orientation to the east and west is unavoidable, landscaping,
canopies, arcades, roof overhangs, or similar features must be used to shade
facades and walls that face into the sun for a large portion of the morning or
afternoon.
Sec. 24-402. Sidewalks.
   (a)   Sidewalks required. Sidewalks in conformance to Section 25-20 must be
provided along public or private street frontages.
   (b)   Sidewalks required for use change. Sidewalks in conformance to Section
25-20 must be constructed along the public right-of-way adjacent to any lot
that changes use. A Certificate of Occupancy for new construction will not be
issued until the sidewalk is constructed and accepted by the city.
Sec. 24-403. Internal pedestrian circulation.
   (a)   Internal walkways.
Internal walkways extending the full length of a building must be provided
along all façades or walls featuring a customer entrance and along all façades
abutting public parking areas. Internal walkways must be placed at least 6 ft.
or more from the façade or wall along at least 30% of its length, to provide
beds for foundation landscaping, outdoor seating, and patios, and building
articulation. Sidewalks are not required in service areas.
   (b)   Pedestrian connectivity.
Connecting walkways, at least 5 ft. wide must link sidewalks with building
entries through parking areas, all points in the development, and buildings on
adjacent parcels. Circulation patterns must be as obvious and simple as
possible. All likely pedestrian routes must be considered in the design phase
of a development to prevent shortcuts through parking and landscape areas. An
internal pedestrian walkway at least 5 ft. wide must be provided from the
perimeter public sidewalk to the primary public entrance.
   (c)   Conflict points.
Internal pedestrian walkways must be distinguished from driving surfaces by
textured pavement, to emphasize conflict points and enhance pedestrian safety.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2899.png]
 
   (d)   Aggregation of plazas.
Pedestrian areas and plazas shall be aggregated, and not distributed in low
impact areas such as building peripheries, areas behind structures, or where
they are barely visible.
   (e)   Orientation of plazas.
Pedestrian areas and plazas shall be oriented to views of activities,
architectural landmarks, or distinctive natural landforms wherever possible.
Sec. 24-404. Service areas.
   (a)   Orientation.
   (1)   Service entrances, loading docks, waste disposal areas and similar
uses must be oriented toward service roads and away from the public right-of-
way and residential areas, unless adequately screened.
   (2)   Service areas cannot be placed where they will be readily visible from
adjacent buildings or where they will harm important or identified view
corridors.
   (b)   Screening.
Service entrances, loading docks, waste disposal areas and similar uses must be
screened from public streets, pedestrian gathering areas and primary entrances
with fencing, walls and/or landscaping, with design compatible with the
architectural theme of the host building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a434bb5d541b6ccd492430e7a27d62b4c32fc18a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2897.png]
 
   (c)   Coordination of service area locations.
Service area location must be coordinated with adjacent developments wherever
possible, so shared service drives can be used.
   (d)   Access routes.
   (1)   Service circulation in a development must be designed to provide safe
movement for anticipated vehicles.
   (2)   Fire lanes and routes for service, emergency and utility access must
be clearly marked.
   (e)   Gas tank vent pipes.
Tank vent pipes must be screened, placed in an inconspicuous location, and
painted a dark color, or integrated into the building architecture.
CHAPTER 25
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Art. I.   Subdivisions, §§ 25-1 -- 25-30
   
Div. 1.   In General, §§ 25-1 -- 25-6
   
Div. 2.   Plat Preparation & Approval §§ 25-7 -- 25-10
   
Div. 3.   Design & Improvements §§ 25-11 -- 25-30 (J)
ARTICLE 1 SUBDIVISIONS
DIVISION 1. IN GENERAL
Sec. 25-1. Purpose.`
   (a)    The subdivision of land is the first step in the process of urban
development. The arrangement of land parcels in the community for residential
and commercial uses and for streets, alleys, schools, parks, and other public
purposes, will determine, to a large degree, the conditions of health, safety,
economy, and amenity that prevail in the urban area. The quality of these
conditions is of public interest. Those regulations and standards for the
subdivision and improvement of land for urban use are to make provision for
adequate light, air, open spaces, drainage, transportation, public utilities,
and other needs, to insure the development and maintenance of a healthy,
attractive, and efficient community that provides for the conservation and
protection of its human and natural resources.
   (b)   This article is designed, intended, and should be administered in a
manner to fulfill the following:
   (1)   Provide neighborhood conservation and prevent the development of slums
and blight,
   (2)   Harmoniously relate the development of the various tracts of and to
the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts,
   (3)   Provide that the cost of improvements, which primarily benefit the
tract of land being developed, be borne by the owners or developers of the
tract.
   (4)   Provide the best possible design for the tract
   (5)   Reconcile any differences of interest; and
   (6)   Establish adequate and accurate records of land subdivision.
Sec. 25-2. Jurisdiction.
This article shall apply to all subdivisions of land within the corporate
limits of the City of The Village. No building permit or certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for any parcel or plat of land, which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this article.
Sec. 25-3. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this article, certain terms used herein are defined as
follows:
   Alley: A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which gives a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street, which may be used for public utility purposes.
   Block: A parcel of land, intended to be used for urban purposes, which is
entirely surrounded by public streets, highways, public walks, parks or green
strips, undeveloped land or drainage channels or a combination thereof.
   Building line or setback line: A line designating area outside of which
buildings may not be erected.
   Corner lot: A lot located at the intersection of and abutting on two (2) or
more streets.
   Cul-de-sac or cul-de-sac street: A minor street having one end open to
vehicular traffic and having one end terminated by a turnaround.
   Double frontage lot: A lot, which runs through a block from street to street
and which abuts two (2) or more streets.
   Easement: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   Final plat: A map of land subdivisions prepared in a form suitable for the
filing of record with necessary affidavits, dedications, and acceptances, and
with complete bearings and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks,
streets, alleys, public areas, and other dimensions of land.
   Frontage street or service street: A minor street auxiliary to and located
on the side of major street for service to abutting properties and adjacent
areas and for control of access.
   Homebuilder: Any person that engages in the construction of dwellings within
the subdivision.
   Lot: A subdivision or block or other parcel intended as a unit for the
transfer of ownership and development.
   Major street: A major street, which is designated as a principal or minor
arterial on the major street plan.
   Principal arterial: This system of streets should serve the major centers of
activity, the highest traffic volume corridors, the longest trip desires, and
the major portion of all travel. For this class of facilities, the concept of
service to abutting land should be subordinate to the provision of travel
service to major traffic movements and any such service should be purely
incidental to its primary functional responsibility.
   Minor arterial street system: The minor arterial street system should
interconnect with, augment the principal arterial system, and provide service
to trips of moderate length at a somewhat lower level of travel mobility than
the higher system. This system also distributes travel to geographic areas
smaller than those identified with the higher system, and it places more
emphasis on land accessibility.
   Minor street: Any street not classified as a major street on the major
street plan.
   Collector street system: The collector street system provides both land
access service and traffic circulation within residential neighborhoods and
commercial areas. It differs from the major system in that facilities on the
collector system may penetrate residential neighborhoods, distributing trips
from the major streets through the area to the ultimate destination. The
collector street also collects traffic from local streets in residential
neighborhoods and channels into the major street system.
   Local street system: The local street system comprises all facilities not on
one of the higher systems. It serves primarily to provide direct access to
abutting land and access to the major and collector systems. It offers the
lowest level of mobility and service to through traffic movement is
deliberately discouraged.
   Occupancy permit: A permit from the building inspector to the homebuilder,
homeowner or businessman for the homeowner or business to occupy a residential
or commercial building in a subdivision.
   Planned unit development: A development in areas zoned for Planned Unit
developments planned in accordance with the provisions of
Article IV, Division 2 of Chapter 24 of The Village City Code.
   Preliminary plat: A map of proposed land subdivisions showing the character
and proposed lay out of the tract in sufficient detail to indicate the
suitability of the proposed subdivision of land.
   Split lot: A subordinate and integral part of any lot and which plot or
parcel of land is not capable of supporting or having a building constructed
upon it.
   Street: Any public or private right-of-way, which affords the primary means
of access to abutting property.
   Subdivider or developer: Any person subdividing or proposing to subdivide
land as herein defined.
   Subdivision: Any division and/or development of land into two (2) or more
lots, parcels, tracts or areas, or any division of land involving the vacation
or dedication of right-of-way or alignment of an existing or proposed street or
highway or any public utility easement, or the re-subdivision of land
heretofore divided into lots, sites, or parcels.
Sec. 25-4. Variation and exception.
   Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in these regulations would result in
substantial hardship the Planning Commission may vary or modify, except as
otherwise indicated, such requirements of design, but not of procedure or
improvements, so that the Subdivider may develop his property in a reasonable
manner, but so, at the same time, the public welfare and interests of the City
are protected and the regulations are preserved. Such modifications may be
granted upon written request of the Subdivider stating the reason for each
modification and may be waived by three-fourths vote of the regular membership
of the Planning Commission.
Sec. 25-5. Administration and amendments.
   The City Council may, from time to time, adopt, amend, or make public rules
and regulations for the administration of this article to the end that the
public be informed, and that approval of plats be expedited.
Sec. 25-6. Violation penalty.
   (a)   No building permit shall be issued for any new structure or change,
improvement, or alteration of any existing structure on any tract of land,
which does not comply, with all of the provisions of this article.
   (b)   The City hereby defines its policy to be that the City will withhold
all public improvements of whatever nature, including the maintenance of
streets and the furnishing of sewerage facilities and water service from all
subdivisions and/or lot splits which have not been approved according to the
provisions contained in this article and from all areas dedicated to the public
which have not been accepted by the City in the manner prescribed therein.
   (c)   Any violation of this article shall be deemed to be punishable by a
fine. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions
of this article shall be guilty of a Class A Offense punishable by a fine of up
to Seven Hundred and Fifty ($750.00) Dollars and sixty (60) days imprisonment
or both such fine and imprisonment.
DIVISION 2. PLAT PREPARATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
Sec. 25-7. In general.
   (a)   For all cases of subdividing within the scope of these regulations as
provided by this article, a plat of the property in question shall be prepared
and submitted to the Planning Commission and City Council for their approval or
disapproval, as provided below:
   (1)   No plat or other land subdivision instrument shall be filed with the
office of the County Clerk until it shall have been approved by the Planning
Commission and the City Council as hereinafter set forth. All final plats shall
be filed within two (2) years of the day of approval by the City Council, and
no lots shall be sold from any plat until recorded. Failure to record the plat
within two (2) years of the date of approval by the City Council shall void all
approvals thereto, unless extended by the Planning Commission and City Council
upon application prior to the expiration date.
   (2)   Each plat submitted for preliminary or final approval shall be placed
on the agenda of the Planning Commission only after fulfilling the appropriate
requirements of these regulations. However, a plat not meeting all of the
requirements may be submitted provided the Subdivider presents with the plat a
written request for specific exceptions and enumerates in detail the reasons,
therefore.
   (3)   To defray partially the costs of administrative procedures, there
shall be paid to the City Clerk, at the time of submission of the preliminary
plat, a fee in an amount set by Resolution of the City Council.
Sec. 25-8. Pre-application plans and data.
   Not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the filing of an application for
approval of a preliminary plat, the Subdivider shall submit to the City Clerk
the following information:
   (1)   A general description of the existing conditions of the site and the
suitability of the site for the proposed development. This information may
include data on existing covenants and agreements, the availability of
utilities and community facilities, the proposed use of each portion of the
subdivision, proposed lot sizes and building sizes, proposed business areas,
playground, park sites and other pertinent data as may be needed to supplement
the sketches required in (2) and (3) below.
   (2)   A general location map shall be submitted and shall show the proposed
subdivision and its relationship to existing utilities, schools, parks, traffic
arteries and other features that will affect and influence the subdivision such
as schools, churches, and shopping and employment centers.
   (3)   A sketch plan drawn to approximate scale shall be submitted and shall
show topography, using a contour interval of not greater than five (5) feet,
the proposed street layout, lots, and other planning features. The street and
lot plan may be in the form of a free hand pencil sketch.
Sec. 25-9. The preliminary plat.
   (a)   The Subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat for submission to the
Planning Commission. Four (4) copies of the preliminary plat shall be submitted
to the City Clerk not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the meeting at
which it is to be considered.
   (b)   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a statement signed by the
registered engineer preparing the plat that he is familiar with the contents of
the preliminary plat and that the preliminary plat has been prepared in
accordance with the Ordinances and regulations governing the subdivision of
land, except where an exception is requested in writing and the reasons for
which are clearly stated.
   (c)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a scale of one hundred (100)
feet to one (1) inch and shall contain or be accompanied by the following
information:
   (1)   The scale, north point, and date.
   (2)   The proposed name of the subdivision.
   (3)   The name and address of the owner of record, the Subdivider and the
name of the registered engineer preparing the plat.
   (4)   A key map showing the location of the proposed subdivision referenced
to existing or proposed major streets and to government section lines and
including the boundaries and number of acres of the drainage area of which the
proposed subdivision is a part.
   (5)   The names, with location of intersecting boundary lines, of adjoining
subdivisions, and the location of City limits if falling within or immediately
adjoining the tract.
   (6)   The land contours with vertical intervals not greater than two (2)
feet referenced to a United States Geological Survey or Coast and Geodetic
Survey Benchmark or monument.
   (7)   The location of existing buildings, water, watercourses, and the
location of dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and/or are
immediately adjacent to the subdivision, provided however that actual measured
distances shall not be required.
   (8)   The length of boundaries of the tract, measured to the nearest foot,
and the proposed location and width of streets, alleys, and easements and
setback lines and the approximate lot dimensions.
   (9)   The location, size and type of sanitary and storm sewers, water mains,
culverts, power and natural gas lines and other surface and subsurface
structures and pipelines existing within or immediately adjacent to the
proposed subdivision and the location, layout, type and proposed size of the
following structures and utilities:
   a.   Water mains.
   b.   Sanitary sewer mains, sub mains and laterals.
   c.   Storm sewers, culverts, and drainage structures.
   d.   Street improvements.
   (10)   The location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage
structures, and the proposed method of disposing of all runoffs from the
proposed subdivision, and the location and size of all drainage easements
relating thereto, whether they are located within or outside of the proposed
plat.
   (11)   The classification of every street within or adjacent to the
subdivision in accordance with the intended use of the street based on the
proposed design. This shall be done by placing the appropriate term, primary
thoroughfare, secondary thoroughfare, collector street, or minor street in
parentheses, directly on each street.
   (12)   The following items associated with oil or gas drilling or producing
operations and existing within or immediately adjacent to the proposed
subdivision:
   a.   Scale drawing of the drilling site, showing dimensions.
   b.   Location of all existing physical facilities, to include existing
wells, structures, tank batteries, and oil, gas or water lines utilized.
   c.   Location and dimension of all existing vehicular entrances. exits and
drives.
   d.   Location and size of all existing mud pits.
   (d)   The Planning Commission shall approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the plat within sixty (60) days of the date of its submission by the
applicant. If the preliminary plat is disapproved or approved conditionally,
the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing, a copy of which shall
be signed by the Planning Commission chairman and shall be attached to one copy
of the plat and transmitted to the Subdivider. The reasons for disapproval or
conditional approval shall refer specifically to regulations or Ordinances with
which the plat does not conform. On conditionally approving a plat, the
Planning Commission may require submission of a revised preliminary plat. If
the plat conforms to all of the standards, or after the applicant and the
Planning Commission agree upon any revision which shall be filed with the
Planning Commission on a revised copy, the Subdivider may proceed with the
laying out of streets and roads, the preparation of utility plans and with the
preparation of a final plat.
Sec. 25-10. The final plat.
   (a)   A final plat, neatly drawn in ink on Mylar and three (3) dark-line
prints thereof shall be submitted to the City Clerk not less than fourteen (14)
days before the Planning Commission meeting at which it is to be considered for
final approval. At the same time, there shall be submitted to the City Engineer
two (2) sets of the proposed plans and specifications for all improvements and
the proposed restrictions in final form provided, however, the final plat may
be approved subject to later submission of final improvement plans and
specifications.
   (b)   The final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission and City Council for final approval within one year of the
date on which the preliminary plan was approved. If not submitted for final
approval within such time, the preliminary plan shall be considered as having
been disapproved unless the Planning Commission agrees to an extension of time.
The final plat shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk within two (2)
years after approval by the City Council and, if not filed within such time,
said approval shall be considered as having been voided, unless extended by the
City Council upon application prior to expiration date.
   (c)   The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of one hundred (100) feet to
the inch from an accurate survey and on sheets whose dimensions are twenty-one
(21) inches by thirty-three and one-half (33 1/2) inches between border lines.
On the first sheet of every plat, there shall be a key map showing the location
of the subdivision referenced to government survey section lines and major
streets. If more than two sheets are required for the plat, the key map shall
show the number of the sheet for each area. A border of one-half inch
surrounding the sheet shall be left blank at the top, bottom, and right-hand
side, and a margin of two (2) inches at the left side for binding purposes.
   (d)   The final plat shall show the following:
   (1)   The location and description of all section corners and permanent
inequity, survey monuments in or near the tract, to at least one of which the
subdivision shall be referenced.
   (2)   The length of all required lines dimensioned in feet and decimals
thereof, and the value of all required true bearings and angles dimensioned in
degrees and minutes, as hereafter specified.
   (3)   The boundary lines of the land being subdivided fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings and the location of boundary lines of adjoining lands,
with adjacent subdivisions identified by official names.
   (4)   The lines of all proposed streets fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles.
   (5)   The lines of all proposed alleys. Where the length and/or direction of
an alley are not readily discernible from data given for lot and block lines,
the length and/or bearings shall be given.
   (6)   The widths, and names where appropriate, of all proposed streets,
alleys and easements which shall be properly located.
   (7)   The lines of all proposed lots fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings or angles, except where a lot line meets a street line at right
angles, the angle or bearing angle value may be omitted.
   (8)   The outline of any property, which is offered for dedication to public
use fully dimensioned by lengths and bearings, with area, marked "public".
   (9)   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision
and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block, with areas to be
excluded from platting marked "Reserved" or "Not a Part".
   (10)   The location of all building lines, setback lines, and easements for
public services or utilities with dimensions showing their location.
   (11)   The location of all easements for drainage with dimensions showing
their location.
   (12)   The grades of all streets.
   (13)   The radii, area, points of tangency, points of intersection, and
central angles for curvilinear streets and radii for all property returns.
   (14)   The proper acknowledgments of owners and the consent by the Mortgagee
to plat restrictions.
   (15)   The following, which shall be made and shown on the cloth tracing:
   a.   Owner's certificate and dedication, signed.
   b.   A registered surveyor, signed, and his seal.
   c.   Certificate for release of mortgage for any portion dedicated to the
public.
   d.   Reference to any separate instruments, including restrictive covenants,
filed in the office of the County Clerk, which directly affect the land being
subdivided.
   e.   Certificates of Planning Commission approval.
   f.   Certificates of City Council acceptance of ways, easements, and public
land dedications.
   g.   A certificate by the County Treasurer.
   (16)   A title, which shall include:
   a.   Name of the subdivision.
   b.   Name of City, county, and state.
   c.   Location and description of the subdivision referenced to section,
range, and township.
   d.   The Planning Commission shall act upon the final plat within forty-five
(45) days after it has been submitted for final approval. The approval and date
thereof shall be shown on the plat over the signature of the Planning
Commission chairman.
   (f)   If the final plat is disapproved, grounds for this refusal shall be
stated in writing, a copy of which shall be transmitted with the tracing and
prints to the applicant. The reasons for disapproval shall refer specifically
to those parts of regulations and/or Ordinances with which the plat does not
comply.
   (g)   Before recording the final plat, it shall be submitted to the City
Council for approval and for acceptance of the public ways and service and
utility easements and land dedicated to public use. This approval of the plat
shall be shown over the signature of the mayor and attested to by the City
Clerk. The disapproval of any plat or plan by the City Council shall be deemed
a refusal of the proposed dedication shown thereon.
   (h)   After final approval of the plat and the affixing of all required
signatures on the original tracing, the Subdivider shall provide the City with
three dark prints thereof, and one contact reproducible Mylar, said copies to
be filed with the City Clerk. The applicant shall file the original one dark
line print on cloth, and on contact reproducible Mylar or film in the office of
the County Clerk.
DIVISION 3. DESIGN & IMPROVEMENTS
Sec. 25-11. Urban design principles.
The quality of design of the urban area is dependent on the quality of design
of the individual subdivisions that compose it. Good community design requires
the coordination of the effort of each Subdivider and developer of land within
the urban area therefore, the design of each subdivision shall be prepared in
accordance with the following general principles:
   (a)   It is intended that the urban area shall be designed as a group of
integrated residential neighborhoods and appropriate commercial and public
facilities. The neighborhood, as a planned unit, is intended as an area
principally for residential use. Space for, recreational, educational, and
shopping facilities to serve the residents of the neighborhood should be
provided and designed as an integral part of each neighborhood.
   (b)   The size of the blocks and other areas for residential, commercial,
and public uses should be designed to provide adequate light, air, open space,
landscaping, of lots and blocks and the street system should be designed to
make the most advantageous use of topography and natural physical features.
Tree masses and large individual trees should be preserved. The system of
sidewalks and roadways and the lot layout should be designed to take advantage
of the visual qualities of the area.
   (c)   Circulation within the urban area shall be provided in accordance with
the following design criteria:
   (1)   Each subdivision shall provide for the continuation of all arterial
streets and highways as shown on the major street plan as and when adopted.
Arterial streets should be located on the perimeter of the residential
neighborhood.
   (2)   Minor streets should be designed to provide access to each parcel of
land within the residential neighborhood and within commercial areas, and in a
manner that will discourage use by through traffic. They should be planned so
that future urban expansion will not require the conversion of residential
streets to collector or arterial routes.
   (3)   Collector streets should be designed to provide a direct route from
other minor streets to the major street system, and all collector streets must
connect on at least one end to an existing or planned collector or higher-level
street.
   (4)   Ingress and egress to residential properties should be provided only
on minor streets.
   (5)   Subdivisions shall provide direct vehicular access from residential
streets to at least one collector street for every 75 residential units within
the subdivision.
   (d)   Minimum standards for development are contained in the zoning
Ordinance, the building Code and in these regulations.
   (e)   The planned unit development standards and process found in the zoning
Ordinance is an appropriate design base for future subdivisions under
condominium, common sharing, or one ownership.
Sec. 25-12. Improvements in general.
   All improvements shall be designed and installed in accordance with all of
the minimum standards established by Ordinances and regulations relating
thereto.
Sec. 25-13. Plan preparation.
   Plans for the improvement herein required shall be prepared by a
professional engineer registered in the state. Two (2) sets of prints of the
proposed plans and specifications for all improvements shall be filed with the
City Engineer at the time of submission of the final plat.
Sec. 25-14. Blocks.
   (a)   The lengths, width and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard for the following:
   (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of
the type of use contemplated.
   (2)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions.
   (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of
street traffic.
   (4)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (b)   Blocks for residential use shall not be longer than eighteen hundred
(1800) feet, measured along the centerline of the block. When a block exceeds
six hundred (600) feet in length, the City Council may require a dedicated six
(6) feet crosswalk easement and not less than a four (4) feet crosswalk to
provide an access through the block.
   (c)   Blocks used for residential purposes should be of sufficient width to
allow for two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for
business use should be of a width suitable for the intended use, with due
allowance for off-street parking and loading facilities.
   (d)   Blocks are not required for Planned Unit Developments to be developed
pursuant to the Unit Ownership Estate Act.
Sec. 25-15. Lots.
   a)   Side lot lines should be approximately at right angles or radial to the
street lines except for minor deviations on cul-de-sac or curvilinear streets.
   b)   Lots are not required for subdivisions for commercial use, or Planned
Unit Developments that are being developed pursuant to the Unit Ownership
Estate Act, but, when provided, should be of appropriate size and arrangements
to provide for adequate off-street parking and loading facilities based on the
intended use.
   c)   Access to all buildings in any subdivision must be from an approved
street.
   d)   All corner lots or building locations shall have a sight triangle with
legs of twenty-five (25) feet along each lot line or street right-of-way line
from the point of intersection.
   e)   All lots shall have two separate directions of access, except cul-de-
sac streets.
   f)   Drainage shall be away from all buildings and shall be in accordance
with the general drainage for the location.
   g)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided except
where they are needed to provide for the separation of residential development
from the traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography
and provided along the portion of the lots abutting such a traffic artery or
other use where screening is required.
   h)   Foundations in fill areas shall be designed to adequately support any
proposed structure.
   i)   Permanent markers shall be placed on all lot corners and change in
alignment (PC and PT curves). Permanent benchmarks shall be set at locations to
effectively serve the subdivision. The elevation on such benchmarks shall be
based on U.S.C. & G.S. data. Markers shall be either iron pipes or pins, which
are not less than one-half inch in diameter and twenty-four (24) inches long.
All such markers shall be placed at least one inch below finished grade.
   j)   When an area within an existing platted subdivision is re-platted and
subdivided into new lots, the new lots shall be at least forty-five (45%) of
the average lot size of all lots within one hundred feet (100') of the area to
be replatted.
   k)   Lots fronting on a curve, or a cul-de-sac shall have an average lot
width of forty-five (45') feet and shall have at least thirty (30') feet of
frontage on an approved public street.
Sec. 25-16. Building lines.
   Building lines shall be provided in all residential subdivisions as follows:
   (1)   A front building line shall be located not less than twenty (20) feet
back of the street right-of-way line.
   (2)   Side yard building line on corner lots:
   (a)   Corner lots back-to-back: A side yard building line on a corner lot
abutting the street shall be located not less than fifteen (15) feet back of
the street right-of-way when such lot is back-to-back with another lot.
   (b)   Corner lots back to side: On corner lots where two corner lots are
situated back to side, the side yard building line on the side of a corner lot
abutting the street shall be located not less than twenty-five (25) feet back
of the street right-of-way.
   (c)   Corner lots side to side: On corner lots where two corner lots are
situated side to side, the side yard building line on the side of a corner lot
abutting the street shall be located not less than twenty-five (25) feet back
of the street right-of-way.
   (3)   Restrictions requiring buildings to be located within the building
lines shown on the plat shall be set forth on the plat or on a separate
recorded instrument.
   (4)   Building lines are not required for Planned Unit Developments.
Sec. 25-17. Easements.
(a)   Where alleys are not provided, easements not less than fifteen (15) feet
wide shall be provided for use by public and private utilities along rear lot
lines, and along side lot lines where necessary. All lots shall border on a
utility easement. In Planned Unit Developments being developed pursuant to the
Unit Ownership Estate Act, a utility easement shall be provided at the rear of
each structure and along the side of each structure when necessary.
(b)   Easements shall be maintained free of buildings or other permanent
structures, except for fences located on or near the side or rear property
line. Any fence so constructed shall not constitute an abandonment by the
easement owner or operate to extinguish the easement. The City Council may
require area easements and easements of greater width for the extension of main
storm and sanitary sewers and other utilities where deemed necessary.
(c)   The Subdivider or developer shall file a utility easement which shall
release or hold harmless a public utility, or private contractor representing a
public utility, from any damages resulting from the removal of any fence or
screening located on the utility easement, in order to gain access for the
purpose of installation, removal, extension or repair of utility lines and
equipment.
(d)   The final grade across any utility easement shall not exceed a slope of
fourteen (14) degrees (25% gradient) except where unusual topographic
conditions justify, in the opinion of the City Council, a modification of this
standard. Slopes less than the maximum may be required at specific locations by
an individual utility for certain surface structures or equipment.
(e)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage channel or
stream, which drains one-hundred sixty (160) acres, or more of land, there
shall be provided a right-of-way for drainage and public utility purposes,
adequate to contain all of the runoff from a 50-year maximum flood. The right-
of-way shall include all of the land within the subdivision that has an
elevation below the fifty (50) year maximum flood elevation as calculated by
the City Engineer.
Sec. 25-18. Streets.
The arrangement, character, extent, width, design, grade, and location of all
streets shall be designed in accordance with the following provisions:
   (1)   Major streets, principal, and minor arterials shall be planned to
conform to the major street plan.
   (2)   Minor streets shall be laid out so that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   (3)   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned
or intended for development by the Subdivider, a tentative plan of proposed
future street system for the un-subdivided portion shall be prepared and
submitted by the Subdivider.
   (4)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or
parcels, such lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical
location and openings of future streets and appropriate re-subdivision, with
provision for adequate utility easements and connections for such re-
subdivision.
   (5)   Street jogs and centerline offsets of less than one hundred and
twenty-five (125) feet should be avoided.
   (6)   Streets shall intersect at approximately right angles.
   (7)   Street classification, right-of-way, and paving widths shall be in
accordance with the following standards:
   (a)   Major streets (12,500+ average daily traffic): Principal Arterial, one
hundred (100) feet right-of-way with a paving width of at least 48 feet to face
of curb. Boulevard with median, eighty (80) feet of right-of-way with a paving
width of at least 24 feet to face of curb on each side of the median.
   (b)   Minor streets:
   (1)   Collector streets (800+ average daily traffic)-sixty (60) feet of
right-of-way with a paving width of thirty-two (32) feet to face of curb.
   (2)   Residential streets (less than 800 average daily traffic):
   (i)   Dedicated to the public-fifty (50) feet of right-of-way with a paving
width of twenty-six (26) feet to face of curb.
   (ii)   Private-forty (40) feet of right-of-way with a paving width of
twenty-six (26) feet to face of curb.
   (iii)   Cul-de-sac streets and short loops may have a paving width of less
than twenty-six feet provided they are of limited length and have only one
access point; however, in no case shall the paving width be less than twenty-
four (24) feet.
   (8)   Maximum street grade shall be six (6%) percent. Minimum street grade
shall be four tenths (0.4%) percent.
   (9)   Dead end streets shall have a maximum length of five hundred (500)
feet ending in a cul-de-sac with a paving radius of forty (40) feet. There
shall be no obstruction within a fifty (50) foot radius. This subsection shall
not apply to Planned Unit Developments.
   (10)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with other requirements
of these regulations and provided that the City Council finds it will be
practical to obtain the dedication of the other half of the street easement
when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever a half street is adjacent
to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted
within such tract.
   (11)   The arrangement of streets shall be such as to cause no hardship in
the subdividing of adjacent properties.
   (12)   No street names will be used that will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets. Streets obviously in alignment with existing
streets shall bear the same name unless otherwise approved by the City Council.
Street names shall be subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (13)   Access to major streets shall be limited.
   (14)   All streets shall be designed to support the traffic generated or
expected for that location. Street design standards shall apply as follows:
   (a)   Paving sections for residential, collector and boulevard type streets
shall be in accordance with design standards provided in this Chapter or as
otherwise required by the city engineer.
   (b)   Paving sections for major arterial streets shall be designed for H-20
loading. Minimum section shall be eight (8) inch Portland cement concrete (air
entrained) over two (2) inches of hot sand asphalt on compacted subgrade.
   (c)   Paving must be designed for any special loading such as oil well
service equipment.
   (d)   The minimum curb radius at intersections shall be thirty (30) feet.
   (e)   No drive shall be permitted closer than sixty (60) feet from the
centerline of intersecting minor streets. Major intersections may require
special review.
   (f)   Modifications of the above standards may be considered only if
acceptable engineering justification is provided.
   (15)   Except as provided in subsection (d), the Subdivider of any
subdivision designed to be used for residential, commercial, or other purposes,
shall pave all streets that are designed on the approved plat or that directly
serve the subdivision by being adjacent thereto in accordance with the plans
and specifications established by Ordinance or Resolution in accordance with
the following provisions:
   (a)   The design of an improvement of an intersection of any new street with
an existing state highway shall be in accordance with the standards of the
Oklahoma Department of Transportation, but in no case shall the design be less
than required by the applicable City specifications.
   (b)   All driveways, which connect with public streets, shall be constructed
in accordance with the standard design of the City except, however, in
residential drives, the minimum width for a single driveway, measured at the
property line, shall be ten (10) feet, and minimum of sixteen (16) feet at the
property line for a two-car driveway.
   (c)   Whenever, a subdivision is adjacent to an already existing unpaved
street, the Subdivider shall be required to pave the entire breadth of said
street.
   (d)   In Planned Unit Developments, private driveways may be maintained by
the owners of said subdivision upon execution of a private driveway maintenance
agreement between the owners, their heirs, executors, administrators,
successors and assigns, and the City. Said agreement shall include but shall
not be limited to, the following requirements:
   (1)   The owner shall agree to maintain private driveways of the
subdivision.
   (2)   The agreement shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk for
the purpose of reflecting the provisions of said agreement within the abstracts
of title of the lots within the subdivision.
   (3)   When in the interest of providing public access to internal property
or properties, the City Council may require the dedication to the public of
rights-of-way and/or private driveway areas and may further require that said
rights-of-way or private driveway areas meet the applicable paving and right-
of-way standards of the City as found in this chapter.
(2014 Code)
Sec. 25-19. Alleys.
   (a)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial districts, except that the City
Council may waive this requirement where other definite and assured provision
is made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading, and parking
consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
   (b)   Alleys serving commercial areas shall be not less than thirty (30)
feet in width.
   (c)   Alleys are not required for residential areas but when provided, shall
not be less than twenty (20) feet in width.
   (d)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
   (e)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnabout facilities at the dead-end as
determined by the City Council.
Sec. 25-20. Sidewalks.
   (a)   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of all streets classified as
principal or minor arterial and on one side of all collector and local streets.
Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the applicable standard
specifications of the City and federal law.
   (b)   On section line roads or designated major roadways, the Subdivider
shall construct a sidewalk on the side of the road abutting the subdivision.
   (c)   Sidewalks may be waived by the City Council in one of the following
conditions:
   (1)   When the density of the subdivision has a density of two and one-half
(2 1/2) dwellings or less per gross acre.
   (2)   Where there is a cul-de-sac of no greater length than five hundred
(500) feet.
   (3)   When the placement of the sidewalk as required by these Ordinances
would not significantly aid or contribute to pedestrian flow or safety in the
subdivided area.
   (4)   In planned unit developments, where adequate provisions have been made
for pedestrian flow and safety.
   (d)   The following shall serve as the sidewalk requirements:
   Roadway Classification      Residential      Nonresidential
   Principal Arterial         Both sides 5'      Both sides 6'
                  2' back of curb
   Minor arterial            Both sides 5'      Both sides 6'
                  2' back of curb
   Collector            One side 5'      Both sides 6'
   Local                One side 5'      Both sides 6'
   In all residential subdivisions the sidewalk along local streets should be
along the North and East side.
   (e)   Sidewalks shall be the responsibility of the homebuilder in
residential subdivisions and not a part of the subdivider's improvements. An
occupancy permit shall not be issued for any dwelling, which has not been built
in conformance with these sidewalk requirements.
Sec. 25-21. Utilities in general.
   (a)   Public easements at least fifteen (15) feet in width shall be provided
for public utilities. Storm sewers are not considered to be utilities.
   (b)   Easements for private utilities shall be required if sufficient space
is not available in public easements.
   (c)   Private utilities may not be buried in street easements without
written approval of the City Engineer.
   (d)   The minimum horizontal separation of parallel water and sewer lines
shall be ten (10) feet.
   (e)   Gas, electric, telephone and television cables must maintain a
horizontal separation of at least four (4) feet.
   (f)   All primary and secondary electric feeders, telephone and television
cables installed within any new subdivision shall be placed underground.
   (g)   Trenches under areas to be paved shall be backfilled with a
combination of rock screenings and sand compacted by water and a vibrating
compactor.
Sec. 25-22. Water lines.
   (a)   The developer/developer shall be responsible for the installation of
the water lines. All water mains shall be dedicated to the City of Oklahoma
City, unless the City of The Village opts to provide service to the
subdivision.
   (b)   All water lines in public rights-of-way shall be of ductile iron.
   (c)   Tapping sleeves shall be required for taps made to any existing water
main ten (10) inches or more in diameter.
   (d)   The developer/developer shall provide a water distribution system of
sufficient size meeting water use and fire protection requirements in
accordance with these regulations and other applicable Ordinances, standards
and specifications governing water line construction.
   (e)   The water system design shall provide as follows:
   (1)   A distribution system sized to supply water at a pressure satisfactory
or each unit, residential or commercial, in the development. All proposed
construction must be approved by the City Engineer.
   (2)   Fire hydrants with steamer connections shall be required throughout
the development area. Fire hydrants shall be installed in accordance with City,
state, and national fire Codes, however, in no case shall fire hydrants be
placed greater than the minimum distance required by Oklahoma City or on any
main less than six (6) inches in diameter. The placement of all fire hydrants
shall be approved by the Fire Chief.
   (3)   Prior to the initiation of installation of any combustible materials
within any subdivision, the public water mains and fire hydrants serving the
location shall be installed.
Sec. 25-23. Fire lanes.
   (a)   Fire lanes shall be provided for all buildings that are set back more
than one-hundred and fifty (150) feet from a public road or exceed thirty feet
in height and are set back over fifty (50) feet from a public road.
   (b)   Fire lanes shall be at least twenty (20) feet in width with a road
edge closest to the building at least ten (10) feet from the building.
   (c)   Fire lanes and driveways shall be located so that all buildings served
by them are accessible to fire equipment. The designation and maintenance of
fire lanes on private property shall be determined by the Fire Marshal.
   (d)   An all-weather road, which is designed to support fire-fighting
apparatus and approved by the Fire Marshal shall be provided for access to all
construction sites prior to the placement of combustible materials on the site.
Sec. 25-24. Sanitary sewers.
   (a)   The Subdivider shall install sanitary sewers to serve the subdivision
in accordance with specifications governing sanitary sewer construction. All
sanitary sewer mains shall be public and shall be dedicated to the City of The
Village.
   (b)   Any new or replacement sanitary sewer system shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate the following:
   (1)   Infiltration of flood waters into such systems, and
   (2)   Discharges from such systems into flood water.
   (3)   Vandalism.
   (c)   Manholes shall be installed at the end of each sanitary sewer line.
   (d)   Manholes shall be constructed at all changes in grade, size, or
alignment at all intersections and at distances not greater than four hundred
(400) feet for sewers fifteen (15) inches in diameter or less and five hundred
(500) feet for sewers eighteen (18) to thirty (30) inches in diameter.
   (e)   Access to existing sanitary sewers shall be limited to the additional
capacity available.
   (f)   No occupancy permit shall be issued for any structure, which has not
been provided an approved connection to the public sewer system.
Sec. 25-25. Storm sewers and drainage.
   (a)   The Subdivider/developer shall provide storm sewers and drainage as
needed to properly drain all property within the development area.
   (b)   Stormwater retention systems shall be required any time a development
substantially increases the amount of impervious surface and when deemed
necessary by the City Engineer. The design and capacity of all stormwater
retention systems shall be subject to the review and approval of the city
engineer.
   (c)   The storm drainage system shall be separate from the sanitary sewer
system.
   (d)   Drainage from adjacent property shall not be restricted.
   (e)   Roadways shall be free from standing water during storms of a twenty-
five (25) year return frequency.
   (f)   No building or structure other than a parking lot, street, or walkway,
shall be constructed over a storm sewer.
   (g)   Drainage easements of sufficient width shall provide unobstructed
access to all storm sewers. The minimum easement width shall be fifteen (15)
feet.
   (h)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments shall be
reviewed to ensure that all such proposals are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage that all public utilities and facilities such as sewer,
gas, electrical and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed so as
to minimize or eliminate flood damage and that adequate drainage is provided so
as to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
Sec. 25-26. Open spaces.
   (a)   Public parks, playgrounds and other public areas and open spaces
should be provided as follows:
   (1)   One-third (1/3) acre for every 10 acres of area to be subdivided.
   (2)   This section shall not apply to Planned Unit Developments where
adequate common areas are provided for open space.
Sec. 25-27. Assurance for Completion of Improvements.
   a)   Prior to acceptance of the dedications within the final plat by the
City Council and recording the final plat pursuant to Section
25-10(g), the Subdivider shall complete, in accordance with the approved
construction plans, all improvements required by this Chapter, as specified on
the final plat approved by the City Council
   b)   In lieu of completion of the improvements herein required, the City
Council may, at its discretion, accept a subdivision improvement guarantee from
the Subdivider, whereby the Subdivider agrees to complete construction of all
improvements according to the plans and specifications approved by the Planning
Commission and City Council within a period of time not to exceed two (2) years
from the date of approval of the final plat. The form of such guarantees shall
consist of one of the following:
   1)   The Subdivider shall file a surety bond, issued by an institution
licensed by the State of Oklahoma as a surety company, with the City of The
Village in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated costs to
complete all required improvements as estimated by the City Engineer. The bond
shall be subject to approval by the City Attorney and acceptance by City
Council.
   2)   The Subdivider shall deposit cash, or other instrument readily
convertible into cash at face value, either with the City of The Village, or in
escrow with a bank or savings and loan institution, in the amount of one
hundred percent (100%) of the estimated costs to complete all required
improvements, as estimated by the City Engineer. The use of any instrument
other than cash shall be subject to the approval by the City Attorney and
acceptance by the City Council. In the case of any escrow account, the
Subdivider shall file with the City Council an agreement between the financial
institution and Subdivider guaranteeing the following:
   a)   That the funds of said escrow account shall be held in trust until
released by the City Council and may not be used or pledged by the Subdivider
as security in any other matter during that period; and
   b)   That, in the case of a failure on the part of the Subdivider to
complete the specified improvements within the required time period, the
financial institution shall immediately make the funds in said account
available to the City to finance the completion of those improvements.
   3)   The Subdivider shall provide a letter of credit from a bank, trust
company, or savings and loan institution to the City of The Village. This
letter shall be submitted to the City Council and shall certify the following:
   a)   That the creditor does guarantee funds equivalent to one hundred
percent (100%) of the estimated costs to complete all required improvements, as
estimated by the City Engineer.
   b)   That, in the case of a failure on the part of the Subdivider to
complete the specified improvements within the required time period, the
creditor shall immediately pay to the City such funds as are necessary to
finance the completion of those improvements, up to the limit of credit stated
in the letter.
   c)   That this letter of credit may not be withdrawn, or reduced in amount,
unless approved by the City Council according to the provisions of paragraph
(c) below.
   c)   Upon completion of the improvements required, the Subdivider shall
notify the City Engineer of such completion, requesting that the City Engineer
so inspect the completed improvements, determining whether the improvements
have been constructed and installed in compliance with those pertinent
provisions of this Code. The City Engineer shall prepare a report regarding his
inspection and file the same.
(Ord. No. 748, §1, 09-16-2019)
Sec. 25-28. Maintenance bond.
Before the acceptance of any public improvement for maintenance by the City
Council, a maintenance bond for the full amount of the contract, effective for
a period of two (2) years following the date of the City's acceptance of the
public improvement, will be filed with the City Clerk to insure the correction
of any defect in materials or workmanship that may be found in the improvement.
(Ord. No. 748, §1, 09-16-2019)
Sec. 25-29. "As built" Plans.
   One set of "as built" plans and specification for the improvements herein
required, certified, and signed by an engineer registered in the State of
Oklahoma shall be filed with the City Clerk prior to the acceptance by the City
Council of any improvements installed herein.
Sec. 25-30. Typical sections and construction details.
   The City of Oklahoma City standard construction specifications and details
shall be utilized for all public improvements (streets, sidewalks, drainage,
sewer, water) except as otherwise approved or amended by the City Engineer.
Sec. 25-31. Closing of Public Ways and Easements.
   (a)   The city may close to the public use any public way or easement within
the municipality, whenever deemed necessary or expedient, through the adoption
of an ordinance by the city council to effect such closing.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, the following words shall have the
meanings provided below:
   1)   "Close" means a legislative act of the governing body of the city
discontinuing the public use of a public way or easement without affecting
title to real property.
   2)   "Public way" means a street, avenue, boulevard, alley, lane, or
thoroughfare open for public use.
   3)   "Easement" means rights in real property as set forth in Title 60,
Section 49 of the Oklahoma Statutes.
   (c)   Written notice of any proposed closing of a public way or easement
shall be given to any holder of a franchise, to all owners of record, as shown
by the current year's tax rolls in the office of the Oklahoma County Treasurer,
whose property is within three hundred (300) feet in any direction from the
public way or easement, and to any other party who may have a special right or
privilege granted by ordinance or legislative enactment to use the public way
or easement. Said notice shall be given at least thirty (30) days prior to
passage of any ordinance providing for the closing of a public way or easement.
   (d)   The city may retain the absolute right to reopen a public way or
easement without expense to the city. A public way or easement may be reopened
by ordinance whenever:
   (1)   The municipal governing body deems it necessary or appropriate; or
   (2)   An application of the property owners owning more than one-half (½) in
area of the property abutting on the public way or easement previously closed
is filed with the governing body.
   (e)   Closing of a public way or easement shall not affect the right to
maintain, repair, reconstruct, operate, or remove utility, Public Service
Corporation or transmission company facilities or service therein, nor shall a
closing affect private-ways, existing by operation of law unless released in a
writing executed by the owners thereof.
State law reference-Power to close public ways and easements, 11 O.S. § 42-110.
(Ord. No. 722, §1 02-06-2017)
CHAPTER 26
LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS
Art. I.   In General, 26-1 - 26-4
Art. II.   Landscape Requirements, 26-5 - 26-9
Art. III.   Trees, 26-10 - 26-12
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 26-1. Intent.
The Village Landscape Regulations are designed to provide for and improve the
health, safety, and welfare of both residents and visitors to The City of The
Village. Vegetative and inert materials used in the exterior environment have
the power to influence air and water quality, micro-climate, visual aesthetics,
and the physical safety of users. The following regulations establish a minimum
acceptable threshold for occupancy; however, property owners are encouraged to
exceed the minimum requirements.
Sec. 26-2. Goals.
   (a)   Minimize impervious surfaces in the environment to increase
infiltration and reduce run-off of water.
   (b)   Increase vegetation, especially trees, to filter the air and reduce
summer temperatures.
   (c)   Reduce reliance on turfgrass by permitting other materials requiring
less water and maintenance.
   (d)   Provide for the comfort and safety of pedestrians along corridors with
connecting sidewalks.
Sec. 26-3. Applicability.
   (a)   General applicability. The landscape regulations set forth in this
chapter apply to:
   (1)   New buildings constructed after the effective date of this chapter.
   (2)   New parking lots constructed after the effective date of this chapter.
   (3)   Redevelopment of the buildings or parking lots of a parcel where the
proposed costs of construction amount to fifty percent (50%) or more of the
current fair market value of the parcel, as determined by the Oklahoma County
Assessor.
   (4)   Redevelopment of the buildings or parking lots of a parcel where the
cumulative costs of construction over a ten-year period amount to fifty percent
(50%) or more of the current fair market value of the parcel, as determined by
the Oklahoma County Assessor.
   (b)   Exemption. The following are exempt:
   (1)   Parking areas located within a parking garage.
Sec. 26-4. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Aggregate - Granular material such as gravel or crushed stone used as a
groundcover over soil substrate of slopes five (5) percent or less. It is
limited to materials free of fines, and greater than Number Four (4) Sieve but
smaller than three (3) inches. Aggregate shall be surrounded by continuous
edges and installed over a weed barrier fabric to prevent migration.
Aisle - In a parking lot, the area adjoining row(s) of parking spaces reserved
for the circulation of vehicles.
Allée - A sidewalk with a row of trees planted on either side.
Bay - In a parking lot, a defined area including the aisle and rows of parking
spaces it services. A single-loaded bay has parking on only one side, a double-
loaded bay has parking on both sides.
Bioswale - A swale designed to filter run-off with vegetation and engineered
soils before entering a storm water inlet.
Bumper Overhang - The area beyond the parking lot curbs or wheel stops where it
is safe and legally permissible for bumpers to extend. Landscaping a bumper
overhang does not deduct from available square footage for parking.
Caliper - The diameter of a tree trunk measured twelve (12) inches above soil
for both new and existing trees.
Civic Corridor - Vineyard Boulevard, and Village Drive north of Britton Road.
Collector Street - Hidden Village Drive, Nichols Road, Ridgeview Drive, and
Stratford Drive.
Impervious - Surfaces such as standard concrete, asphalt, or roofing that
prevent water from passing through them.
Infiltration - The process of water being absorbed on site into the earth.
Landscaped Bumper Overhang - The two (2) feet of a parking space's required
length that is the bumper overhang may be accommodated as a landscaped area or
may be incorporated into a landscaping island. Landscaped Bumper Overhangs
shall be twenty-four (24) inches in width, permeably covered, and shall contain
no plant, irrigation device, or other object higher than six (6) inches above
the top of the curb or wheel stop.
Landscaping Island - A permeably landscaped area within a parking lot no
narrower than six (6) feet in width and extending the length of the parking
space(s) it adjoins. It may be above grade in a curbed area or designed for the
purpose of receiving and detaining run-off from the parking lot. Islands must
be protected from vehicular traffic.
Perimeter Screen - A landscaped treatment along parking lot perimeters abutting
the right-of-way for the purpose of minimizing views of parked cars from the
public. This landscaped treatment shall be located solely on private property,
shall be eighteen (18) to thirty-six (36) inches in height, and shall form a
continuous screen of plant material within two years of normal growth. A
minimum of fifty (50) percent of the plant selections shall be evergreen to
provide year-round screening. Clear sight triangles shall be maintained.
Perimeter Tree - When a parking lot is present, a tree planted in the street
yard between ten (10) feet and twenty (20) feet from the nearest parking space.
Permeable - Surfaces such as vegetation, aggregate, or specifically designed
paving that permit water to pass through them at a rate of five (5) gallons per
square foot per minute or greater.
Ramada - a freestanding overhead structure, open on all sides, designed to
shade parking spaces.
Residential Street - Streets not specifically categorized otherwise are
considered Residential Streets.
Right-of-Way (R.O.W.) - The property between the center line of street and
property line.
Run-off - Water that moves on rather than being absorbed on site.
Thoroughfare - Britton Road, Hefner Road, May Avenue, and Pennsylvania Avenue.
Vegetation - living plant material including trees, shrubs, perennials,
grasses, turf, groundcovers, and vines.
Yard - an open space at grade between a main building and the adjoining lot
lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the
ground upward except where otherwise specifically provided in this chapter. In
measuring for the purpose of determining the width of the side yard or the
depth of a rear yard, the least horizontal distance between the lot line and
the main building shall be used. In measuring for the purpose of determining
the depth of a front yard, the depth shall vary depending on the distance
between the front property line and the main building or any projection
thereof, other than steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches.
Yard, front - a yard located in front of the front elevation of a main building
and extending across a lot between the side yard lines and being the horizontal
distance between the front property line and the main building or any
projection thereof, other than steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed
porches.
Yard, side - means a yard between the main building and sideline of the lot and
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main building
or any projections other than steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed
porches.
Yard, street - Front or side yards that abut street(s).
ARTICLE II. LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 26-5. Right-of-Way Landscape Requirements.
Parcels subject to this Chapter must have a landscaped Right-of-Way adjacent to
the parcel that meets the standards described in this Section. Rights-of-Way
are given special attention in the landscape standards because they benefit not
only individual property owners, but The Village residents and visitors as
well. The standards are focused on the most highly trafficked and civically
important streets, where enhanced landscapes can have the most impact.
   (a)   Trees.
   (1)   Trees shall be a minimum two (2) inch caliper at time of planting. The
tree species shall be selected from the approved street tree list for the
specific street on which the property is located. (Sec. 26-10. C)
   (2)   Trees shall be evenly distributed along the frontage. Adjustments to
spacing are permitted as necessary to prevent planting of trees in sight
triangles. When the interruption of drives and sight triangles would require a
tree spacing closer than fifteen (15) feet under utility lines or twenty-five
(25) feet elsewhere, the required trees shall be accommodated in two rows as an
allée.
   (3)   Trees shall be planted in a permeably covered planting strip or well
no narrower than six (6) feet in any direction. Trees shall not be planted
closer than three (3) feet in any direction to an impervious surface.
   (4)   Required number of trees.
 
Thoroughfares       1 per every 45' of Frontage or Fraction Thereof
Civic Corridors     1 per every 25' of Frontage or Fraction Thereof
Collector Streets   1 per every 35' of Frontage or Fraction Thereof
Residential Streets Optional
 
   (b)   Sidewalks.
   (1)   ADA compliant sidewalks shall be built in a continuous line parallel
to the curb with minimal shifts allowed to circumvent existing structures and
to connect to existing sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be spaced a minimum of six
(6) feet from the curb to provide a tree planting zone. Sidewalks shall be a
minimum of five (5) feet wide and built on both sides of all streets.
   (i)   Exceptions. Sidewalks are optional on Residential Streets. Where
multi-modal paths are provided, additional sidewalks shall not be required.
Where there are fewer than eleven (11) feet clear between the curb and property
line alternative solutions that accommodate pedestrian and plant wellness shall
be considered for approval by Council.
   (c)   Groundcover. The entire right of way shall be permeably covered. Turf
shall not be used in the Rights-of-Way of Thoroughfares.
   (d)   Exception. Impervious materials such as concrete are permitted for
streets, drives, sidewalks, or pads for utility or amenity infrastructure.
Sec. 26-6. Street Yard Landscape Requirements.
Parcels subject to this Chapter must have a landscaped Street Yard that meets
the standards described in this Section.
   (a)   Buildings classified with respect to use or occupancy as assembly,
business, educational, institutional, mercantile, or multi-family as provided
by the International Building Code as adopted by the City shall be landscaped
with living plants, trees, shrubs, grass or similar vegetation according to the
following standards and requirements:
   (1)   A minimum of one (1) tree at least two (2) inches in caliper is
required for every one thousand (1000) square feet of lot area. The tree
species shall be selected from the approved large or medium tree lists. Sec.
26-10. A (1)(2). B (1)(2).
   (2)   One (1) shrub or ornamental grass is required in the street yard for
each tree required.
   (3)   A minimum of seventy-five (75) percent of the street yard not used for
parking or circulation shall be permeably covered. Vegetation, aggregate, or
permeable paving shall be used. Aggregate may cover a maximum of twenty (20)
percent of the street yard.
   (4)   The landscaped area shall be in the street yard and visible from the
public streets providing access to the property. Inner courts that are not
visible from the public street shall not be calculated for purposes of meeting
this requirement.
   (b)   Buildings classified with respect to use or occupancy as residential
as provided by the International Building Code as adopted by the City shall be
landscaped according to the following regulations:
   (1)   A minimum of one (1) tree at least two (2) inches in caliper is
required for each property. The tree species shall be selected from the
approved medium or large tree lists.
   (2)   Shrubs and ornamental grasses are encouraged in the street yard, but
none are required.
   (3)   A minimum of fifty (50) percent of the street yard shall be permeably
covered. Vegetation or aggregate shall be used. Aggregate may cover a maximum
of twenty (20) percent of the street yard.
Sec. 26-7. Parking Lot Landscape Requirements.
Parcels subject to this Chapter with parking lots must have landscaped parking
lots that meet the standards described in this Section.
   (a)   All lots shall be planted with trees at a ratio of one (1) tree for
every seven (7) surface parking spaces or fraction thereof. The tree species
shall be selected from the approved deciduous large or medium tree lists. Sec.
26-10. A (1)(2). Loblolly Pine are also permitted. A minimum of fifty (50)
square feet of permeable area shall be provided at the base of each tree, the
minimum dimension of which shall be no narrower than six (6) feet, to allow for
water infiltration and gas exchange. Trees planted in parking lots may be used
to fulfill street yard landscape requirements when the parking lots are visible
from the public street.
   (1)   In parking lots of fifty (50) or more spaces, a maximum of fifty (50)
percent of the trees in paragraph (a) of this guideline may be substituted by
vine-covered ramadas, whose placement, together with required trees, will shade
at least 50 percent of the parking area in summer.
   (2)   In any planting area adjacent to the side of a parking space, starting
at a distance four (4) feet from the head of the parking space, no tree may be
planted within four (4) feet of the parking space, to allow for door swings of
parked cars.
   (b)   Permeable landscaping is required as follows:
   (1)   The end of every row of parking spaces shall have a landscaping
island.
   (2)   When three (3) or more parking bays are present a continuous
landscaping island is required between every two (2) bays or fraction thereof.
   1.   Exception. When all Bumper Overhangs in a parking lot are landscaped,
islands shall not be required between bays.
   (c)   Pedestrian needs should be accommodated within parking lots. Parking
lots shall include design elements to address:
   (1)   How pedestrians will be protected from high volume vehicular traffic,
   (2)   How main entrances are linked to the parking lot; and
   (3)   How traffic will be properly managed and controlled. Large landscaping
islands should incorporate pedestrian cross paths.
   (d)   Perimeter trees.
   (1)   For lots with twenty (20) or more spaces, the perimeter of the parking
lot may incorporate up to thirty-five (35) percent of the required interior
parking lot trees.
   (2)   For lots with less than twenty (20) spaces, the perimeter of the
parking lot may incorporate up to one hundred (100) percent of the required
interior parking lot trees as long as those trees are placed on private
property within twenty (20) feet of the parking lot.
Sec. 26-8. Landscape Points.
In addition to the requirements described in Sections
26-5 through
26-7, landscaping that meets a minimum number of landscape points, as described
below, are required for parcels subject to this Chapter that are used for
commercial, multi-family, and public uses.
   (a)   Required Points
Square Footage of Project Site Points Required
Square Footage of Project Site            Points Required
< 7,500                                   10
7,501-15,000                              15
15,001-40,000                             20
40,001-86,000                             30
86,001-120,000                            50
120,001-150,000                           60
> 150,000 square feet or fraction thereof 60 per each 150,000 square feet or
                                          fraction thereof
 
   (b)   Point Fulfillment
Site Improvement Points Earned
Site Improvement                                                              Points
                                                                              Earned
Large or Medium Maturing Tree Minimum 2" Caliper from the lists in Sec. 26-   2
10.
Small Maturing Tree Minimum 2" Caliper from the lists in Sec. 26-10.          1
Double file (allée) of street trees, in addition to points earned above (per 1
pair of trees)
Shrub or Ornamental Grass                                                     0.5
Preservation of Existing Healthy Tree                                         3
Preservation of existing groundcover and soil structure (per 100 square feet) 1
Installation of public Bench or Bicycle Rack*                                 2
Installation of and disposal of refuse collected from public trash            4
receptacle*
Permeable paving in sidewalks and/or parking lots (per 100 square feet)       3
Directing parking lot run off through a bioswale before entering the storm    1
inlet (per 15 linear feet)
Walls/Fence built from cast stone, brick, or wrought iron (per 25 linear      2
feet)
Upgrading paving with decorative detailing (per 50 square feet of detail)     1
Landscaped Bumper Overhang (per 80 linear feet)                               1
Perimeter Screen, in addition to points earned above (per 25 linear feet)
Public Art or Decorative Signage* Determined by Council
* As approved by Council
 
 
Sec. 26-9. Landscape Materials and Plan.
   (a)   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by either
(i) a detailed landscaping plan (24"x 36") for both the lot area and the area
within the public street right-of-way between the property line and the curb,
or (ii) a statement and supporting documentation showing that the proposed
development is not subject to this Chapter. Landscaping plans shall show all of
the following requirements:
   (1)   The location and types of all plants shall be designated;
   (2)   Artificial grass or any form of synthetic plant shall not be permitted
as part of the requirements for landscaping;
   (3)   Rock gardens or public art may be approved by council;
   (4)   The landscaping plan shall respect sight triangles at intersections
and all other elements relating to traffic control; and
   (5)   Description (narratives, charts, or calculations) that show how the
proposed landscaping meets the requirement of this Chapter.
   (b)   The landscaping plan shall be reviewed and approved as part of the
building permit review process.
   (c)   A certificate of occupancy for a structure shall not be issued until
the landscaping has been installed in accordance with the plan; provided,
however, that if a structure and all its site improvements are complete except
for the landscaping requirements, and the season of the year will not permit
planting, temporary occupancy may be permitted until a date certain in the
growing season. In such cases, an inspection date in the growing season shall
be set by the building inspector to determine if the landscaping has been
installed.
   (d)   All landscaping shall be maintained in a live and healthy condition.
Failure to install or maintain landscaping as required and approved shall
constitute a violation of this section.
ARTICLE III. TREES
Sec. 26-10. Approved Trees.
Trees planted to meet the minimum landscape requirements of The Village must
come from the approved lists in this section.
   (a)   Deciduous
   (1)   Large (Over 50' Height)
Scientific Name Common Name
Scientific Name                Common Name
Celtis occidentalis            Hackberry
Ginkgo biloba                  Ginkgo
Gleditsia triacanthos          Thornless Honeylocust
Gymnocladus dioica             Kentucky Coffeetree
Liquidambar styraciflua        Sweetgum
Maclura pomifera               Osage Orange
Pistacia chinensis             Chinese Pistache
Platanus x acerifolia          London Planetree
Populus deltoides ‘CottonlessCottonwood
Quercus macrocarpa             Bur Oak
Quercus muehlenbergii          Chinkapin Oak
Quercus nigra                  Water Oak
Quercus shumardii              Shumard Oak
Taxodium distichum             Baldcypress
Ulmus parvifolia               Lacebark Elm
Zelkova serrata                Japanese Zelkova
 
   (2)   Medium (25-50' Height)
Scientific Name Common Name
Scientific Name            Common Name
Acer campestre             Hedge Maple
Acer saccharum 'Caddo'     Caddo Maple
Acer truncatum             Shantung Maple
Betula nigra               River Birch
Bumelia lanuginosa         Chittamwood
Castanea mollissima        Chinese Chestnut
Koelreuteria paniculata    Panicled Golden Raintree
Morus alba 'Fruitless'     Fruitless Mulberry
Parrotia persica           Parrotia
Quercus acutissima         Sawtooth Oak
Sapindus drummondii        Western Soapberry
Styphnolobium japonicum    Japanese Pagoda Tree
Tilia cordata 'Greenspire' Greenspire Linden
Ulmus crassifolia          Cedar Elm
Ziziphus zizyphus          Jujube or Chinese Date
 
   (3)   Small (Under 25' Height)
Scientific Name Common Name
Scientific Name                   Common Name
Acer tataricum ssp. Ginnala       Amur Maple
Alnus maritima                    Alder or Seaside Alder
Amelanchier arborea               Serviceberry
Asimina triloba                   Pawpaw
Cercis canadensis                 Redbud
Chilopsis linearis                Desert Willow
X Chitalpa tashkentensis          Chitalpa
Cotinus coggygria                 Smoketree
Crataegus crus-galli var. Inermis Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn
Crataegus phaenopyrum             Washington Hawthorn
Diospyros kaki                    Oriental Persimmon
Euonymus bungeana                 Winterberry Euonymus
Ilex decidua                      Deciduous Holly
Lagerstroemia indica              Crapemyrtle
Magnolia x soulangiana            Saucer Magnolia
Malus spp.                        Flowering Crabapple
Prunus cerasifera                 Purpleleaf Plum
Prunus x cistena                  Purpleleaf Sand Cherry
Viburnum rufidulum                Rusty Blackhaw
 
   (b)   Evergreen
   (1)   Large (Over 50' Height)
Scientific Name Common Name
Scientific Name             Common Name
Calocedrus decurrens        Incense Cedar
Cedrus atlantica            Atlas Cedar
Cedrus deodara              Deodar Cedar
Cedrus libani               Cedar of Lebanon
Pinus elliottii             Slash Pine
Pinus ponderosa             Ponderosa Pine
Pinus taeda                 Loblolly Pine
Pinus thunbergii            Japanese Black Pine
Quercus virginiana          Live Oak
Thuja plicata 'Green Giant' Green Giant Arborvitae
 
   (2)   Medium (25-50' Height)
 
Scientific Name      Common Name
Cupressus arizonica  Arizona Cypress
Juniperus virginiana Eastern Redcedar
Pinus bungeana       Lacebark Pine
 
   (3)   Small (Under 25' Height)
Scientific Name Common Name
Scientific Name                   Common Name
Ilex vomitoria                    Yaupon Holly
Ilex x attenuata                  Foster Holly
Ilex x 'Nellie R. Stevens'        Nellie R. Stevens Holly
Juniperus chinensis 'Torulosa'    Hollywood Juniper
Magnolia grandiflora 'Little Gem' Little Gem Magnolia
Prunus caroliniana                Cherry Laurel
Thuja occidentalis                Eastern Arborvitae
 
   (c)   Street Trees for Right-of-Way Planting
Britton Road and Pennsylvania Avenue              
(Species options when no overhead utility is      
present)
Ginkgo biloba                                    Ginkgo
Quercus acutissima                               Sawtooth Oak
Taxodium ascendens                               Pondcypress
(Species options within 10' of overhead utility)  
Acer ginnala                                     Amur Maple
X Chitalpa tashkentensis                         Chitalpa
Vitex agnus-castus                               Vitex
                                                 
May Avenue and Hefner Road                        
(Species options when no overhead utility is      
present)
Ginkgo biloba                                    Ginkgo
Platanus x acerifolia                            London Plane Tree (Sycamore)
Quercus shumardii                                Shumard Oak
(Species options within 10' of overhead utility)  
X Chitalpa tashkentensis                         Chitalpa
Vitex agnus-castus                               Vitex
                                                 
Village Drive and Vineyard Boulevard              
Acer ginnala                                     Amur Maple
X Chitalpa tashkentensis                         Chitalpa
Ginkgo Biloba                                    Ginkgo
Platanus x acerifolia                            London Plane Tree (Sycamore)
Quercus acutissima                               Sawtooth Oak
Quercus shumardii                                Shumard Oak
Taxodium ascendens                               Pondcypress
Vitex agnus-castus                               Vitex
 
   (1)   Any approved deciduous tree species may be planted in the R.O.W. of
Collector and Residential streets. When an overhead utility line is present,
the tree species must be Amur Maple, Chitalpa, Vitex, or selected from the
small deciduous tree list.
Sec. 26-11. Tree Replacement.
If established trees on the site cannot be preserved or transplanted throughout
the construction process, they are to be replaced caliper inch for caliper inch
by new trees. When there is not enough room for the replacement trees on site,
a fee in lieu established by resolution of the City Council will be paid to The
City of The Village to fund planting of trees in public spaces.
Sec. 26-12. Tree Limb Clearance.
   (a)   A single trunk deciduous tree planted in the R.O.W. or in the parking
lot perimeter will be kept clear of limbs a minimum of seven (7) feet measured
above soil.
   (1)   Exception. Before a deciduous tree planted in the R.O.W. or in the
parking lot perimeter reaches twenty-one (21) feet in height, only the bottom
one-third (1/3) of the trunk is required to be kept clear of limbs.
ORDINANCE TABLE
THE VILLAGE CITY CODE
List of Ordinances Since Incorporation
ORD # SUBJECT ADOPTED
ORD SUBJECT                                                                    ADOPTED
#
1   EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        3/24/1950
2   DE-ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN TERRITORY                                         3/24/1950
3   EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        3/24/1950
4   EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        4/29/1950
5   DE-ANNEXATION OF CERTAIN TERRITORY                                         10/28/
                                                                               1950
6   EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        10/28/
                                                                               1950
7   DEFINING TERMS, REGULATING TRAFFIC AND USE OF STREETS                      10/28/
                                                                               1950
8   CREATING OFFICE OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER, BUILDING REGULATION              10/28/
                                                                               1950
9   REGULATING PLUMBERS, CREATING BOARD OF PLUMBING EXAMINERS                  10/28/
                                                                               1950
10  LEVYING A 2% GROSS RECEIPTS TAX ON SALES OF GAS                            12/30/
                                                                               1950
11  LEVYING ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE & INSPECTION FEE ON PHONE CO                 12/30/
                                                                               1950
12  CHANGING THE NAME OF CHURCHILL WAY TO CHURCHILL PLACE                      1/27/1951
13  LEVYING A 2% GROSS RECEIPTS TAX ON SALE OF WATER                           3/3/1951
14  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        3/31/1951
15  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        3/31/1951
16  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        4/2/1951
17  PROVIDING FOR RABIES VACCINATION FOR DOGS                                  5/26/1951
18  LEVYING 2% SALES TAX ON ELECTRIC SALES                                     6/2/1951
19  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        6/23/1951
20  DEFINING BOULEVARDS                                                        7/21/1951
21  LEVYING AND ADDITION 1% SALES TAX                                          6/29/1976
21  REQUIRING LICENSES FEES FOR PLUMBERS                                       7/21/1951
22  PARKING VEHICLES IN EXCESS OF ONE TON BETWEEN 6 PM & 6 AM                  7/21/1951
23  ADOPTING SOCIAL SECURITY FOR CITY EMPLOYEES                                12/22/
                                                                               1951
24  SANITATION REGULATIONS, CHARGES                                            1/4/1952
25  GRANTING A FRANCHISE TO OG&E FOR ELECTRIC SYSTEM                           2/23/1952
26  ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE                                           3/21/1952
27  REGULATING ELECTRICAL WORK, ELECTRICIANS, ETC.                             4/25/1952
28  CREATING A FIRE DEPARTMENT, FIRE REGULATIONS                               4/25/1952
29  PROHIBITING THE KEEPING OF ALL ANIMALS EXCEPT DOGS AND CATS                7/25/1952
30  DISTURBING THE PEACE                                                       7/25/1952
31  DESTRUCTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY, STREET SIGNS                              7/25/1952
32  LICENSING OF OCCUPATIONS                                                   7/25/1952
33  DEFINING VAGRANT                                                           8/7/1952
34  UNLAWFUL TO HARBOR LOUD, BARKING DOG                                       7/25/1952
35  FAILURE TO HAVE DRIVERS LICENSE IN POSSESSION                              7/25/1952
36  WEEDS AND GRASS                                                            7/25/1952
37  NUISANCES DEFINED                                                          8/22/1958
38  CREATION OF FIREMENS PENSION FUND                                          9/26/1952
39  PROVIDING FOR BICYCLE LICENSE                                              9/29/1952
40  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        9/26/1952
41  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        10/24/
                                                                               1952
42  DEANNEXATION OF LOT 13, BLK 105 NICHOLS HILLS SUBURBAN TRACT               10/24/
                                                                               1952
43  CHANGING WARD BOUNDARIES                                                   12/26/
                                                                               1952
44  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        12/26/
                                                                               1952
45  ESTABLISHING COMPENSATION FOR CITY CLERK                                   3/27/1953
46  ESTABLISHING THE SALARY OF THE CITY CLERK                                  4/6/1953
47  SANITATION REGULATIONS, CHARGES                                            8/12/1953
48  AMENDING ORDINANCE 32 PERTAINING TO SOLICITATION                           8/12/1953
49  CREATING A PLANNING COMMISSION                                             8/17/1953
50  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        1/22/1954
51  REGULATING THE SUBDIVISION OF LAND, PLATS, DESIGN STANDARDS                7/23/1954
52  ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE, ESTABLISHING FIRE LIMITS, FEES                  8/24/1954
53  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        9/3/1954
54  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        10/5/1954
55  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        10/8/1954
56  ESTABLISHING TWO ZONING DISTRICTS, ZONING REGULATIONS, ETC                 12/7/1954
57  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        12/14/
                                                                               1954
58  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        12/31/
                                                                               1954
59  EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        4/2/1955
60  SALARY AND TRAVEL EXPENSE OF TOWN CLERK                                    3/25/1955
61  REGULATING CIRCUSES, LICENSES, INSURANCE                                   4/22/1955
62  REGULATING AMUSEMENT RIDES, TRANSIENT SHOW, ROLLER SKATING                 4/6/1955
63  REZONING LOT 4 IN SW 1/4 OF SECTION 30 TO COMMERCIAL                       5/3/1955
64  REZONING CERTAIN AREAS TO COMMERCIAL                                       5/21/1955
65  PROHIBITING PUBLIC DRUNKENESS                                              8/2/1956
66  LICENSING OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE                                             8/2/1955
68  REGULATION OF ELECTRICAL WORK, ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR, ETC                   11/1/1955
69  REQUIRING PLUMBING LICENSES, PERMITS, INPSECTIONS                          11/1/1955
71  ESTABLISHING WARD BOUNDARIES                                               6/19/1956
72  ESTABLISHING STOP SIGN LOCATIONS                                           6/19/1959
73  LICENSE FEE FOR VEHICLES FOR HIRE, INSURANCE REQUIRED                      6/19/1956
74  ESTABLISHING SPEED LIMITS ON CERTAIN STREETS                               9/4/1956
75  REZONING CERTAIN AREAS TO COMMERCIAL                                       11/20/
                                                                               1956
76  VACATING CERTAIN EASEMENTS IN BURKE NORTHRIDGE MANOR                       7/23/1957
77  ESTABLISHING STOP SIGN LOCATIONS                                           8/6/1957
78  CREATING CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION                                        9/3/1957
79  REZONING CERTAIN AREAS TO COMMERCIAL                                       1/7/1958
80  CREATING OFFICE OF ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR                                    3/4/1958
81  CREATING OFFICE OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR, LICENSING OF PLUMBERS               3/4/1958
82  BONFIRES DEFINED                                                           4/15/1958
84  SANITATION REGULATIONS, CHARGES                                            7/15/1958
85  RIGHT AND POWER TO ACQUIRE LAND INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OF CITY                 9/2/1958
86  THIS ORINANCE IS MISSING (PROBABLY A SKIPPED NUMBER)                        
87  ASSAULT AND BATTERY                                                        10/21/
                                                                               1958
88  DISORDERLY CONDUCT                                                         10/21/
                                                                               1958
89  DISORDERLY AND LEWD CONDUCT                                                10/21/
                                                                               1958
90  INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICER, IMPERSONATING OFFICER                           10/21/
                                                                               1958
91  INTOXICATING LIQUORS, NUISANCES                                            10/21/
                                                                               1958
92  LARCENY                                                                    10/21/
                                                                               1958
93  VAGRANCY, BEGGING                                                          10/21/
                                                                               1958
94  FAILURE TO PAY FARE ON PUBLIC CONVEYANCES                                  10/21/
                                                                               1958
95  RESISTING ARREST, REFUSING TO AID OFFICER                                  10/21/
                                                                               1958
96  WINDOW PEEPING                                                             10/21/
                                                                               1958
97  LEWD OR INDECENT EXPOSURE                                                  10/21/
                                                                               1958
98  INJURING OR MOLESTING AUTOMOBILES                                          10/21/
                                                                               1958
99  REGULATING THE TRADE OF AIR HEATING DEVICES                                10/21/
                                                                               1958
100 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES, PASSING ON LEFT, LEFT OF CENTER               11/18/
                                                                               1958
101 DRIVING THROUGH SERVICE DRIVEWAY WITHOUT PURCHASE                          11/18/
                                                                               1958
102 REQUIRING POSSESSION OF DRIVERS LICENSE                                    11/18/
                                                                               1958
103 REQUIRING FRONT AND REAR LICENSE PLATES                                    11/18/
                                                                               1958
104 REGULATING THE TRADE OF AIR CONDITIONING, REFRIGERATION                    11/18/
                                                                               1958
105 FEES FOR PERMITS, INSPECTION, & ENGINEERING SERVICES                       12/16/
                                                                               1958
105 ISSUANCE OF SERIES A SEWERAGE SYSTEM BONDS                                 1/1/1959
106 EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE TOWN OF THE VILLAGE                        12/19/
                                                                               1958
107 PERMITS FOR SEWER CONNECTION, PERMITS, INSPECTIONS                         2/3/1959
108 DRILLING OF OIL AND GAS WELLS                                              3/3/1958
109 EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE                        4/18/1959
110 EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE                        5/18/1959
111 EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE                        5/18/1959
112 EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE                        5/18/1959
114 EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE                        5/19/1959
114 EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE                        5/20/1959
115 EXTENDING THE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE                        6/8/1959
116 REZONING OF CERTAIN AREA TO COMMERCIAL                                     6/16/1959
117 PROHIBITING SEPTIC TANKS                                                   6/16/1959
118 VACATING A UTILITY EASEMENT IN BURKE NORTHRIDGE MANOR                      6/16/1959
119 SEWER CHARGES FOR COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS                                6/15/1959
120 REGULATING MANUFACTURE, SALE OF ALCHOLIC BEVERAGES                         8/4/1959
121 OCCUPATION TAX FOR MANUFACTURE, SALE OF ALCHOHOLIC BEVERAGES               8/4/1959
122 DELETING A-1 SINGLE FAMILY USES IN COMMERCIAL ZONE                         9/15/1959
123 ESTABLISHING A SANITARY SEWER DISTRICT                                     9/23/1959
124 REZONING OF CERTAIN AREAS TO A-1 SINGLE FAMILY                             10/20/
                                                                               1959
125 ESTABLISHING WARD BOUNDARIES                                               10/20/
                                                                               1959
126 ANNUAL FEES FOR PAVING AND SEWER & WATER LINE CONTRACTORS                  12/29/
                                                                               1959
127 INSPECTION OF SEWER LINES                                                  12/29/
                                                                               1959
128 LICENSES FEES FOR PLUMBERS                                                 12/29/
                                                                               1959
129 REGULATING ELECTRICAL WIRING, LICENSING OF ELECTRICIANS, FEES              12/29/
                                                                               1959
130 ESTABLISHING STOP SIGN LOCATIONS                                           1/9/1960
131 ISSUANCE OF SERIES B SEWERAGE SYSTEM BONDS                                 3/1/1960
132 REGULATING THE CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS                     5/17/1960
133 ASSESSING COST OF SEWER CONSTRUCTION TO SEVERAL LOTS                       7/19/1960
134 AMENDING ZONING REGULATIONS                                                8/16/1960
135 CREATING A POLICE PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM                            12/20/
                                                                               1960
136 REZONING OF CERTAIN AREAS TO COMMERCIAL                                    2/8/1961
137 FALSE OR BOGUS CHECKS                                                      2/21/1961
138 REGULATING LOCATION OF FALLOUT & TORNADO SHELTERS, PERMITS                 2/10/2061
139 VACATING A UTILITY EASEMENT IN BURKE NORTHRIDGE MANOR                      10/3/1961
140 BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN VILLAGE PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY                      10/17/
                                                                               1961
141 REZONING OF CERTAIN AREAS TO COMMERCIAL                                    10/21/
                                                                               1961
142 MAINTENANCE & LEASE, APPROVING BOND INDENTURE FOR VPWA                     1/16/1962
143 REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL SIGNS                                           3/26/1962
144 CHURCHES, YMCAS, ETC AUTHORIZED TO ADVERTIZE IN ENCLOSED AREA              4/17/1962
145 SANITATION REGULATIONS, CHARGES                                            9/4/1962
146 REZONING OF CERTAIN AREAS TO COMMERCIAL                                    10/16/
                                                                               1962
147 CHANGING HEIGHT REGULATIONS, REQUIRING PAVED DRIVEWAYS, ETC                12/4/1962
148 REDUCING ALLEY WIDTHS, DEED FOR PARK PRIOR TO PLAT APPROVAL                12/4/1962
149 REZONING PART OF DEWEY DOBSON PLOT TO A-1 SINGLE FAMILY ZONE               2/5/1963
150 VACATING A STREET                                                          2/5/1963
151 PROVIDING FOR CERTAIN CHANGES IN SIDE LOT REQUIREMENT                      12/3/1963
152 HARBORING VICIOUS ANIMAL                                                   5/19/1964
153 PROVIDING FOR ANIMAL PICK-UP FEE                                           5/19/1964
154 REGULATING POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS                                         7/21/1964
155 ADOPTING MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC REGULATIONS                                 9/1/1964
156 ADOPTING MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC REGULATIONS                                 9/1/1964
156 ADOPTING RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR SHOPPING CENTER SIGNS                   10/20/
                                                                               1964
157 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR SHOPPING CENTER SIGNS                            10/20/
                                                                               1964
158 MAKING SHEFFIELD AND HASLEY ONE WAY WHILE SCHOOL IN SESSION                12/15/
                                                                               1964
159 REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL SIGNS                                           8/3/1965
160 LEVYING 1% GENERAL FUND SALES TAX                                          10/5/1965
161 CREATING A LIBRARY COMMISSION                                              11/2/1965
162 ADOPTING TERMS CONTAINED IN STATE SALES TAX CODE                           12/28/
                                                                               1965
163 SPEED LIMITS ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS                                       5/17/1966
164 POSSESSION OF INTOX AND NON-INTOXICATING BEVERAGES BY MINORS               8/16/1966
165 REGULATING MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS                        9/20/1966
166 SALES TAX EXEMPTION FOR FARM MACHINERY SALES                               3/7/1967
167 FEES FOR PAVING, SEWER LINE CONTRACTORS                                    7/18/1967
168 CREATING TRAFFIC AND SAFETY COMMISSION                                     7/18/1967
169 NON-OPERATING VEHICLES ON STREETS AND PRIVATE PROPERTY                     7/18/1967
170 SPEED LIMITS IN SCHOOL ZONES, ETC                                          3/5/1968
171 SPEED LIMITS ON CITY STREETS                                               9/17/1968
172 BOOK MAKING, GAMBLING                                                      10/1/1968
173 GLUE SNIFFING, DRUGS                                                       11/19/
                                                                               1968
174 ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF MUNICIPAL COURT                              1/21/1969
175 SEWER CHARGES                                                              6/28/1969
176 SANITATION REGULATIONS ADOPTED, RATES AND CHARGES                          6/28/1969
177 REZONING LOTS 17 & 18, BLK 7, CASADY WAVERLY TO COMMERCIAL                 3/18/1969
178 AMENDING ORDINANCE 138, POLICE PENSION SYSTEM                              6/28/1969
179 POLICE PENSION AND RETIREMENT SYSTEM                                       6/28/1969
180 ESTABLISHING SANITATION CHARGES                                            6/28/1969
181 ESTABLISHING SEWER CHARGES, PENALTY FOR DELINQUENT BILLS                   6/28/1969
182 ADOPTING OMRF RETIREMENT SYSTEM                                            9/16/1969
183 PROVIDING FOR CERTAIN CHANGES IN HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS                       9/16/1969
184 FIRE DEPARTMENT RETIREMENT SYSTEM                                          11/4/1969
185 REMOVING OF RESIDENCES AND OTHER BUILDINGS IN COMMERCIAL ZONE              12/16/
                                                                               1969
186 REZONING TO COMMERCIAL                                                     2/17/1970
187 PERTAINING TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS                                           2/17/1970
188 AIR POLLUTION                                                              3/3/1970
189 REZONING 200' X 200' SW CORNER HEFNER/PENN TO COMMERCIAL                   3/17/1970
190 ADOPTING ZONING, PLANNING COMMISSION AND BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT               2/2/1971
191 NUMBER AND SIZE OF SIGNS FOR YMCAS, CHURCHES, ETC.                         2/2/1971
192 REZONING OF CERTAIN AREAS FROM A-1 TO C-2                                  5/16/1972
193 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY                                                         12/5/1972
194 DECLARING NECESSITY OF CONSTRUCTING A SEWER DISTRICT                       12/19/
                                                                               1972
195 THIS ORDINANCE IS MISSING (PROBABLY A SKIPPED NUMBER)                       
196 CHANGING WARD BOUNDARIES                                                   4/17/1973
197 AMENDING THE OMRF RETIREMENT SYSTEM                                        8/21/1973
198 REGULATING FIREWORKS                                                       10/2/1973
199 AMENDING ORDINANCE 190 PERTAINING TO SPECIAL PERMITS                       1/2/1974
200 AMENDING ORDINANCE 180 PERTAINING TO SANITATION CHARGES                    7/16/1974
201 AMENDING ORDINANCE 181 PERTAINING TO SEWER CHARGES                         7/16/1974
202 PERTAINING TO REPLACEMENT OF PLANNING COMMISSIONERS                        8/20/1974
203 PERTAINING TO ABSENCES OF BOARD AND COMMISSION MEMBERS                     9/17/1974
204 AMENDING ORDINANCE 190 PERTAINING TO ZONING REGULATIONS                    10/6/1974
205 RELATING TO ABATEMENT OF GRASS AND WEEDS                                   10/15/
                                                                               1974
206 REGULATIONS FOR CHANGING ZONING BOUNDARIES, REGULATIONS                    11/19/
                                                                               1974
207 ESTABLISHING WORK PERIODS FOR POLICE & FIRE PERSONNEL (FLSA)               12/7/1974
208 ESTABLISHING AND ORGANIZING FIRE DEPARTMENT                                12/17/
                                                                               1974
209 PROHIBITING THE KEEPING OF ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS AND CATS                1/7/1975
210 FAILURE TO APPEAR                                                          7/7/1975
211 DRIVING WHILE IMPAIRED                                                     7/12/1975
212 PARTICIPATION IN THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM                      1/21/1975
213 REGULATING RECREATION AND AMUSEMENT HALLS                                  5/20/1975
214 AMENDING REGULATIONS FOR RECREATION AND AMUSEMENT HALLS                    7/15/1975
215 PROVIDING FOR DISCHARGE REGULATIONS                                        9/16/1975
216 CHANGING DEFINITION OF REFUSE AND RUBBISH                                  10/21/
                                                                               1975
217 TRESPASSING                                                                4/6/1976
218 PERTAINING TO HELMETS FOR MOTORCYCLISTS                                    6/1/1976
219 CALLING FOR A SALES TAX ELECTION                                           6/29/1976
220 ADOPTION OF THE 1976 CODE OF ORDINANCE                                     6/29/1976
221 THIS ORDINANCE IS MISSING (PROBABLY A SKIPPED NUMBER)                       
222 CALLING FOR A SPECIAL ELECTION FOR 1% SALES TAX INCREASE                   6/29/1976
223 FENCES BEYOND FRONT BLDG LINE NOT TO EXCEED 2 FEET IN HEIGHT               10/19/
                                                                               1976
224 PARKING IN PRIVATELY OWNED AREAS, POSTING OF SIGN REQUIRED                 12/7/1976
225 APPROVAL OF FRANCHISE FOR OG&E                                             12/7/1976
226 SALE, USE OR POSSESSION OF NARCOTICS                                       1/18/1977
227 ADOPTION OF 1970 FIRE PREVENTION CODE                                      2/15/1977
227 REGULATING CATS IN THE SAME MANNER AS DOGS                                 1/18/1977
228 ESTABLISHING WARD BOUNDARY LINES                                           2/15/1977
229 DEFINING AMUSEMENT RIDES                                                   3/1/1977
230 ESTABLISHING A FORMULA FOR COLLECTION OF SALES TAX                         6/20/1978
231 CREDIT FOR REFUNDS OF UTILITY CHARGES                                      4/19/1977
232 CREDIT FOR REFUNDS OF UTILITY CHARGES                                      4/19/1977
233 DEFINING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES                                           7/5/1977
234 FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION                                                    9/6/1977
235 VACATING PART OF AN EASEMENT NORTH OF KAVANAUGH DRIVE                      10/18/
                                                                               1977
236 PROHIBITING PARKING ON CITY STREET RIGHTS-OF- WAY                          12/6/1977
237 SANTITATION SERVICE CHARGES                                                1/17/1978
238 ESTABLISHING TIME TO RESPOND TO TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS CHARGE                  2/7/1978
239 PROVIDING FOR ISSUANCE OF WARRANTS, IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES                 3/7/1978
240 LIMITING THE NUMBER OF TRASH CONTAINERS PICKED UP PER DAY                  4/5/1978
241 PROHIBITING DUMPING OF GARBAGE                                             4/18/1978
242 SPECIFYING ARREST PROCEDURES, RELEASE ON OWN RECOGNIZANCE                  6/20/1978
243 ADOPTING 1976 LIFE SAFETY CODE                                             7/18/1978
244 MAINTENANCE OF OIL AND GAS WELLS                                           10/3/1978
245 DEFINING PORTABLE SIGNS                                                    11/7/1978
246 STRUCTURES BEYOND FRONT BUILDING LINE, CARPORTS PROHIBITED                 11/7/1978
247 PERMIT FEES FOR RETAIL LIQUOR STORE, SOLICITORS                            11/7/1978
248 AMENDING PENALTY PROVISION OF 1970 FIRE PREVENTION CODE                    11/7/1978
249 FORBIDDING LEFT TURNS UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES                          12/19/
                                                                               1978
250 CLEANING OF FECES FOR DOGS, CATS AND OTHER ANIMALS                         12/19/
                                                                               1979
251 PROHIBITING CERTAIN VEHICLES ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS                        12/19/
                                                                               1978
252 PROHIBITING NEW AND USED AUTOMOBILE SALES IN C- 2 ZONES                    1/16/1979
253 COUNCIL APPROVAL OF ALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES                            1/16/1979
254 STORING OF BLDG MATERIALS, MANNEQUINS, JUNK ON PREMISES                    4/17/1979
255 FEE FOR SIGN FASCIA CHANGE                                                 4/3/1979
256 PROHIBITING HELICOPTER LANDINGS                                            5/1/1979
257 BLDG PERMITS, REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION, COUNCIL APPROVAL              6/5/1979
258 MAINTENANCE OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS IN C-2 ZONING DISTRICTS               6/7/1979
259 ESTABLISHING A MUNICIPAL COURT CASH BOND FUND                              8/7/1979
260 PARKING OF TRUCKS AND VANS ON STREET                                       8/7/1979
261 PROHIBITING PARKING OF TRAILERS, BOATS, MOTOR HOMES, ETC                   8/7/1979
262 DEFINING VEHICLE FOR OFF-STREET PARKING                                    8/7/1979
263 24 HOUR PARKING LIMIT ON STREET                                            8/7/1979
264 PROHIBITING CERTAIN VEHICLES ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS                        8/7/1979
265 CHARGES FOR SINGLE FAMILY SANITATION SERVICE                               9/18/1979
266 CHARGES FOR RESIDENTIAL SEWER LINE MAINTENANCE                             9/18/1979
267 AUTHORIZING A NON-EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE FOR CABLE TV SYSTEM                  10/16/
                                                                               1979
268 GRANTING A CABLE TV FRANCHISE TO KANSAS STATE NETWORK, INC                 10/16/
                                                                               1979
269 DEFINING LITTER                                                            11/6/1979
270 SERVICE CHARGES FOR SANITATION SERVICE                                     11/6/1979
271 SEWER LINE MAINTENANCE FEE FOR APARTMENTS                                  11/20/
                                                                               1979
272 ADMINSTRATIVE FEE FOR ABATEMENT OF WEEDS AND TRASH                         11/20/
                                                                               1979
273 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES                                                    1/15/1980
274 TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS GIVEN BY POLICE AND FIREMEN                             1/15/1980
275 PROHIBITING CERTAIN VEHICLES ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS                        1/15/1980
276 RETURN OF CONTRIBUTIONS FROM POLICE PENSION FUND                           2/19/1980
277 AUTHORIZING BUILDING INSPECTOR TO ISSUE CITATIONS                          2/19/1980
278 PUBLIC PARADES, STREET MEETINGS AND CELEBRATIONS                           3/4/1980
279 TRANSFER OF CABLE TV FRANCHISE TO MULTIMEDIA                               4/1/1980
280 FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION                                                     6/3/1980
281 PROHIBITING MOBILE HOMES                                                   7/1/1980
282 AUTHORIZATION FOR BUILDING INSPECTOR TO ISSUE CITATIONS                    8/5/1980
283 AUTHORIZATION FOR BUILDING INSPECTOR TO ISSUE CITATIONS                    8/5/1980
284 ESTABLISHING CITY CONTRIBUTION TO POLICE PENSION FUND                      8/5/1980
285 REQUIRING STREET ADDRESSES TO BE PLACED ON RESIDENCES                      8/19/1980
286 SALE OF NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES, LOCATION REGULATED                      10/7/1980
287 ESTABLISHING SPEED LIMITS ON STATE HIGHWAYS                                1/20/1981
288 OFF-STREET PARKING, DEFINING FRONT YARD                                    4/21/1981
289 ESTABLISHING HEIGHT RESTRICTION FOR C-1 & C-2 ZONES                        4/21/1981
290 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR SOLICITORS                                          5/5/1981
291 DRILLING OF WATER WELLS                                                    6/2/1981
292 PARKING TRACTORS, TRAILERS, BACKHOES, ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS               6/2/1981
293 MAINTENANCE OF DESIGNATED FIRE LANES                                       1/19/1982
294 ESTABLISHING SEWER LINE MAINTENANCE FEE                                    1/19/1982
295 REQUIRING SMOKE DETECTORS IN ALL APARTMENTS                                2/2/1982
296 DRILLING AND MAINTENANCE OF OIL AND GAS WELLS                              2/2/1982
297 ESTABLISHING FINE SCHEDULE FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS                          4/6/1982
298 ESTABLISHING PARKING FINE AT $20                                           4/6/1982
298 STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED PROPERTY                                               8/3/1982
299 MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURES AND GROUNDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONE                  8/3/1982
300 MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURES AND GROUNDS IN COMMERCIAL ZONE                   8/3/1982
301 ADOPTION OF THE BOCA BASIC BUILDING CODE 1981                              9/21/1982
302 ADOPTION OF BOCA BASIC PLUMBING CODE 1981                                  9/21/1982
303 ADOPTION OF BOCA BASIC FIRE PREVENTION CODE 1981                           9/21/1982
304 IMPLIED CONSENT TO BREATH OR BLOOD TEST                                    10/2/1982
305 REQUIRING 65% EXTERIOR MASONRY FOR C-2 COMMERCIAL ZONE                     11/2/1982
306 REQUIRING 65% EXTERIOR MASONRY FOR C-1 COMMERCIAL ZONE                     11/2/1982
307 INCREASING FINES FOR CERTAIN OFFENSES                                      11/2/1982
308 FINES FOR SPEEDING                                                         11/2/1982
309 ESTABLISHING FINES FOR CERTAIN OFFENSES                                    11/2/1982
310 SPEEDING IN SCHOOL ZONES                                                   11/2/1982
311 ESTABLISHING PICK UP FEE FOR ANIMALS                                       11/2/1982
312 COMMERCIAL PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS PROHIBITED                         11/16/
                                                                               1982
313 LOCATION OF OIL AND GAS WELLS                                              11/18/
                                                                               1952
314 LOCATION OF OIL AND GAS WELLS TO BUILDINGS                                 11/18/
                                                                               1982
315 65% EXTERIOR MASONRY REQUIRED IN A-1 SINGLE FAMILY ZONE                    12/21/
                                                                               1982
316 SETTING COURT COSTS                                                        1/18/1983
317 DEFINING DRIVING WHILE IMPAIRED                                            6/7/1983
318 DEFINING EMPLOYEE FOR OMRF RETIREMENT SYSTEM                               6/21/1983
319 REQUIRING SECURITY VERIFICATION FORM                                       6/21/1983
320 DEFINING WEEDS & TRASH                                                     6/21/1983
321 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION TOWER PROHIBITED                                    7/19/1983
322 MOVABLE AND FLASHING SIGNS                                                 8/2/1983
323 PARKING OF VEHICLES IN HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES                          10/4/1983
324 SCHEDULE OF LICENSE FEES                                                   10/4/1983
325 FEES FOR BUILDING PERMITS                                                  10/4/1983
326 FEES FOR PLUMBING PERMITS                                                  10/4/1983
327 FEES FOR ELECTRICAL PERMITS                                                10/4/1983
328 FEES FOR MECHANICAL PERMITS                                                10/4/1983
329 FEES FOR NON-CONSTRUCTION PERMITS                                          10/4/1983
330 SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR CURB CUTS AND CONSTRUCTION PERMITS                    10/4/1983
331 FEES FOR SWIMMING POOL PERMITS                                             10/4/1983
332 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO OBTAIN A PERMIT                                     10/4/1983
333 DEFINTION OF ACCESSORY STRUCTURE                                           10/18/
                                                                               1983
334 EXEMPTION OF 65% EXTERIOR MASONRY FOR PORTABLE/TEMPORARY BLDG              10/18/
                                                                               1983
335 PORTABLE OR TEMPORARY BUILDINGS DEFINED, MAX HEIGHT AND SIZE               10/18/
                                                                               1983
336 SETTING MAXIMUM FINES FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS                               10/13/
                                                                               1983
337 EXCLUSION OF STRUCTURES, TREES, BUSHES, OR HEDGES ON R-O-W                 11/1/1983
338 DRIVING WITHOUT POSSESSION OF A VALID DRIVERS LICENSE                      11/1/1983
339 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION                                     11/1/1983
340 AMENDMENTS TO OMRF RETIREMENT SYSTEM                                       1/3/1983
341 LIMIT PLACED ON RESIDENTIAL SALES PER YEAR                                 4/2/1984
342 LICENSING AND VACCINATION OF DOGS                                          5/1/1984
343 INTERVAL BETWEEN GARAGE SALES                                              5/1/1984
344 SIDEWALK SALES IN C-2 COMMERCIAL ZONE                                      5/1/1984
345 INCREASING FINES TO $100                                                   5/15/1984
346 TRESPASSING ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY                                  7/3/1984
347 FAILURE TO APPEAR                                                          7/3/1984
348 FOOD SERVICE OPERATOR CERTIFICATION                                        8/7/1984
349 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO PAY SANITATION AND SEWER FEES                       8/7/1984
350 DISPLAY OF SALES TAX PERMIT, OTHER LICENSES & PERMITS                      7/8/1984
351 DEPOSIT OF DRIVERS LICENSE FOR MUNICIPAL OFFENSE                           11/20/
                                                                               1984
352 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO SECURE A PERMIT OR LICENSE                          6/18/1985
353 TRANSPORTATION OF NON-INTOXICATING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES                     7/2/1985
354 DEFINING GROSS RECEIPTS AND EXEMPTIONS                                     7/16/1985
355 ANNUAL OCCUPATION TAX FOR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES                      9/3/1985
356 HOURS AND DAYS OF OPERATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS SELLING BEER                 8/6/1985
357 POSSESION OF DRIVERS LICENSE WHILE OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE               9/3/1985
358 RESIDENTIAL SALE SIGNS                                                     9/3/1985
359 DISPLAY OF MATERIAL HARMFUL TO MINORS                                      9/17/1985
360 CONSTRUCTION, EXCAVATION IN RIGHTS-OF-WAYS                                 11/19/
                                                                               1985
361 ALTERING OF PRICE LABELS AND SWITCHING MERCHANDISE                         12/17/
                                                                               1985
362 PARKING OF MORE THAN ONE VEHICLE IN THE REAR OR SIDE YARD                  4/1/1986
363 KEEPING OF BEES                                                            4/1/1986
364 REMOVAL OF DOG DEFECATION, PROHIBITING URINATION                           5/6/1986
365 DELETING PORTION OF DEFINITION OF FARM EQUIPMENT                           6/3/1986
366 MINIMUM LANDSCAPE AREA FOR RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY                            6/17/1986
367 LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL PROPERTY                             6/17/1986
368 PARKING OF VEHICLES IN FRONT, REAR AND SIDE YARDS                          6/17/1986
369 ADOPTION OF THE 1986 CODE OF ORDINANCES                                    6/17/1986
370 PARKING OF VEHICLES WITH PORTABLE OUTDOOR TOILETS                          7/15/1986
371 LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL PROPERTY                             8/19/1986
372 WATER RATIONING EMERGENCIES                                                8/19/1986
373 ABATEMENT OF WEEDS AND TRASH                                               9/16/1986
374 FEES FOR MECHANICAL PERMITS                                                11/4/1986
375 DEFINITION OF VEHICLES AND FARM EQUIPMENT                                  11/4/1986
376 FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION                                                    12/16/
                                                                               1986
377 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES                                   1/20/1987
378 SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE MATERIAL                                   1/20/1987
379 AUTHORIZING ABSENTEE BALLOTS                                               4/9/1987
380 DEFINITION OF RESTAURANT                                                   4/21/1987
381 ADOPTION OF THE 1987 CODE OF ORDINANCES                                    5/5/1987
382 DEFINING CLASS \A\" OFFENSES"                                              5/19/1987
383 MEMBERSHIP ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION                                      5/19/1987
384 VIOLATION OF 13-9, 13-14, 13-356 MADE A CLASS \A\" OFFENSE"                6/16/1987
385 DISPLAY OF VEHICLES FOR SALE ON COMMERCIAL PROPERTY                        7/21/1987
386 PARKING LIMIT FOR VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS                                 7/21/1987
387 POSSESSION AND USE OF FIREWORKS                                            7/21/1987
388 MAINTENANCE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY                                                7/21/1987
389 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES                                                7/21/1987
390 PARKING OF TRACTOR TRAILERS IN COMMERCIAL AREAS                            8/4/1987
391 OMRF RETIREMENT SYSTEM                                                     8/4/1987
392 FAILURE TO APPEAR IN COURT                                                 9/1/1987
393 DISPLAY OF HOUSE AND BUILDING NUMBERS                                      9/15/1987
394 1/2% TEMPORARY SALES TAX FOR LIBRARY CONSTRUCTION                          9/15/1987
395 RESTRICTIONS ON PORTABLE TEMPORARY BUILDINGS                               10/6/1987
396 REPEALING ORDINANCE 394                                                    10/13/
                                                                               1987
397 1/2% TEMPORARY SALES TAX FOR LIBRARY CONSTRUCTION                          10/13/
                                                                               1987
398 ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS ON JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARIES                   11/17/
                                                                               1987
399 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF                                                          11/17/
                                                                               1987
400 CHRISTMAS TREE SALES                                                       12/1/1987
401 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS                                                  1/19/1988
402 INCREASE IN COURT COSTS                                                    2/2/1988
403 BOND REQUIREMENTS FOR MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS                               2/2/1988
404 BOND REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS                               2/2/1988
405 ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS ON JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARIES                    
406 OFF-STREET PARKING                                                         5/3/1988
407 SIGNS FOR CHURCHS, SCHOOLS & YMCAS                                         5/17/1988
408 OLMMAG WORKERS COMP RESERVE FUND                                           7/5/1988
409 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID                                    7/5/1988
410 LARCENY                                                                    6/21/1988
411 DEPOSIT OF GRASS, WEEDS IN STREETS & DITCHES                               8/16/1988
412 THEFT OF LIBRARY MATERIALS                                                 9/6/1988
413 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS                                                    10/4/1988
414 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS                                                     9/6/1988
415 TELEPHONIC ALARM PERMITS, STANDARDS                                        1/17/1989
416 SOLICITATION HOURS FOR CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS                            2/21/1989
417 LICENSING OF BAILS BONDSMEN                                                2/21/1989
418 HOME OCCUPATION DEFINED                                                    3/21/1989
419 OMRF RETIREMENT PROGRAM                                                    4/4/1989
420 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL, DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE                                   5/2/1989
421 POSTING LICENSES & PERMITS, UNOCCUPIED BLDG NOTICES                        5/2/1989
422 SEASONAL SALES, SIDEWALK SALES, OUTDOOR DISPLAY                            5/2/1989
423 LIMITS ON NUMBER OF PETS                                                   6/6/1989
424 DISCHARGE OF LIQUID WASTES ON STREETS                                      6/6/1989
425 LIMITS ON NUMBER OF PETS                                                   7/18/1989
426 ADOPTING LIFE SAFETY CODE 1989                                             9/5/1989
427 CURFEW FOR MINORS                                                          9/5/1989
428 WINDOW TINT STANDARDS FOR AUTOMOBILES                                      9/5/1989
429 CURFEW FOR MINORS                                                          10/3/1989
430 PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED                                                   10/3/1989
431 PERMANENT GENERAL FUND TAX 3/4%                                            10/26/
                                                                               1989
432 TEMPORARY GENERAL FUND TAX 1/2%                                            10/26/
                                                                               1989
433 GARBAGE CONTAINERS                                                         11/21/
                                                                               1989
434 INSURANCE FOR AMUSEMENTS                                                   11/21/
                                                                               1989
435 SOUND METERS AND NOISE STANDARDS                                           12/19/
                                                                               1989
436 AMBULANCE REGULATIONS                                                      2/20/1990
437 1990 BOCA BUILDING CODE                                                    3/6/1990
438 SKATEBOARDS                                                                4/3/1990
439 OUTDOOR DISPLAY IN RESIDENTIAL AREA                                        4/3/1990
440 SIZE OF PORTABLE BUILDINGS                                                 4/17/1990
441 1990 BOCA PLUMBING CODE                                                    5/1/1990
442 1990 BOCA MECHANICAL CODE                                                  5/1/1990
443 SOUND METERS AND NOISE STANDARDS                                           5/1/1990
444 SKATEBOARDS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY                                             6/19/1990
445 RECYCLING                                                                  6/28/1990
446 AMBULANCE REGULATIONS                                                      7/3/1990
447 REPEAL OF 1988 LIFE SAFETY CODE                                            7/17/1990
448 ADOPTION OF 1990 BOCA FIRE PREVENTION CODE                                 7/17/1990
449 TRUCK PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL ZONE                                          8/21/1990
450 MOVING OF BUILDINGS INTO CITY                                              8/7/1990
451 CHILD CARE CENTER REGULATIONS                                              8/7/1990
452 USE TAX                                                                    12/18/
                                                                               1990
453 BUILDING PERMIT REVIEW, CHURCHES                                           3/19/1991
454 TRASH & WEEDS, NUISANCES, JUNK VEHICLES                                    4/16/1991
455 LICENSING AND BONDING OF SIGN CONTRACTORS                                  4/16/1991
456 INTENSITY OF USE - CHURCHES                                                5/21/1991
457 ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS FOR OMRF                                             6/18/1991
458 SANITATION AND SEWER RATES, DEPOSITS                                       6/18/1991
459 PURCHASING, PROCESSING OF INVOICES                                         8/6/1991
460 INTENSITY OF USE - CHURCHES                                                9/3/1991
461 OFF STREET PARKING                                                         11/5/1991
462 RENUMBERING SECTIONS OF CODE, PARKING SPACE SIZES                          11/19/
                                                                               1991
463 CHILD CARE AND DAY CARE CAMP REGULATIONS                                   12/3/1991
464 BANNERS, DIRECTIONAL SIGNS                                                 12/3/1991
465 SIGNS FOR CHURCHES, NAMEPLATES FOR HOME OCCUPATIONS                        1/21/1992
466 MISCELLANEOUS SIGN REGULATIONS                                             2/4/1992
467 EXTERIOR MASONRY EXEMPTION FOR TEMPORARY CLASSROOM BLDGS                   2/18/1992
468 LOCATION OF TORNADO SHELTERS                                               3/30/1992
469 PARKING OF TRAILERS, REC. VEHICLES; TEMPORARY PARKING PERMIT               5/14/1992
470 DEFINING ABANDONED, DISMANTLED, WRECKED VEHICLES                           6/16/1992
471 REGULATION OF ALCOHOLIC AND NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES                      7/7/1992
472 ADOPTING 1990 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE                                       7/7/1992
473 REGULATING FOOD AND BEVERAGES                                              7/7/1992
474 REZONING CITY HALL, POLICE DEPT PROPERTY TO C-2 COMMERCIAL                 7/21/1992
475 TERMINATING OMRF DEFINED BENEFIT RETIREMENT SYSTEM                         8/4/1992
476 ADOPTING OMRF DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT SYSTEM                       8/4/1992
477 PROPER EQUIPMENT FOR MOTOR VEHICLES                                        8/4/1992
478 SHOPLIFTING                                                                8/4/1992
479 DIRECTIONAL SIGNS; TEMPORARY SIGNS                                         11/17/
                                                                               1992
480 SPECIAL ACTIVITY SIGNS; TEMPORARY SIGNS                                    12/15/
                                                                               1992
481 EXEMPTIONS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES; AREA REGULATIONS                      12/15/
                                                                               1992
482 AMENDING OMRF RETIREMENT PLAN - ADDING BENEFITS                            12/15/
                                                                               1992
483 AMENDING OMRF; ALLOCATION OF EXCESS FUNDS                                  12/15/
                                                                               1992
484 CHILD CARE CENTERS - AMENDING DEFINTION                                    1/5/1993
485 PROVIDING FOR CERTIFICATION AND BONDING OF DANGEROUS DOGS                  4/6/1993
486 SOLICITORS; INVITATION TO PREMESIS REQUIRED                                6/15/1993
487 BANNERS; LOCATION                                                          6/15/1993
488 PAWNBROKERS                                                                8/3/1993
489 REPEALING SECTION 13-168 PERTAINING TO VEHICLES AND ALLEYS                 8/17/1993
490 ADOPTING 1993 BOCA CODES, 1993 ELECTRIC CODE                               9/7/1993
491 SMOKE DETECTORS                                                            9/7/1993
492 UNLOADING FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS                                                9/7/1993
493 REQUIRING DRIVER'S LICENSE TO OPERATE MOTORCYCLE                           10/5/1993
494 OIL WELLS                                                                  10/19/
                                                                               1993
495 PUBLIC NUISANCES; DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS, WEEDS & TRASH; ABANDONED VEHICLES 2/1/1994
496 SIZE AND HEIGHT OF TEMPORARY AND PORTABLE BUILDINGS                        2/15/1994
497 REVISING DEFINITION OF \FRONT BUILDING LINE                                CARPORTS"
498 ANIMALS PROHIBITED; LIMITING NUMBER OF LITTERS OF PUPS OR KITTENS.         3/1/1994
499 ANIMALS, ENCLOSURES, FECES                                                 3/15/1994
500 MAINTENANCE, DISPLAY OF TAILLIGHT                                          4/5/1994
501 REPEALED ZONING PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO CHURCHES.                         5/17/1994
502 AMENDING USE TAX RATE                                                      6/7/1994
503 TEMPORARY AND PORTABLE BUILDINGS                                           6/21/1994
504 TEMPORARY AND PORTABLE BUILDINGS                                           6/21/1994
505 ADOPTION OF NEW ZONING ORDINANCE                                           9/20/1994
506 BOCA PLUMBING CODE, MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS                     9/20/1994
507 OUTDOOR SALES, CHILD CARE CENTERS AND DAY CAMPS                            9/20/1994
508 PARKING ON PAVED SURFACE, COMMERICIAL PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS         6/20/1994
509 STREETS, RIGHT OF WAYS, SIGHT TRIANGLES, FEE FOR VACATING                  6/20/1994
510 LOCATION OF SALES OF NONINTOXICATING BEVERAGES, BEER WINE LICENCES         6/20/1994
511 CABLEVISION, RATE REGULATION, CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS                   6/20/1994
512 ADOPTION OF THE 1994 CODE OF ORDINANCES                                    6/20/1994
513 CURFEW FOR JUVENILES                                                       10/4/1994
514 REPEAL OF CERTAIN LICENSING REQUIREMENTS                                   11/15/
                                                                               1994
515 CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES, PARAPHERNALIA                             2/7/1995
516 CHILD CARE AND DAY CARE CENTERS                                            6/6/1995
517 PRORATION OF LICENSES                                                      6/20/1995
518 RESIDENTIAL SALE SIGNS                                                     7/18/1995
519 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES                                                        10/17/
                                                                               1995
520 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION                                                     11/7/1995
521 OMRF RETIREMENT FUND                                                       11/21/
                                                                               1995
522 OMRF - TRANSFERING ASSETS TO SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE                             11/21/
                                                                               1995
523 CREATING A NEW RETIREMENT SYSTEM FOR NON- UNIFORMED EMPLOYEES              11/21/
                                                                               1995
524 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT                                                  2/6/1996
525 FILING FEE FOR ELECTED OFFICE                                              2/6/1996
526 ADDING NEW STATE LAW REFERENCE                                             5/6/1996
527 RESIDENTIAL SALES                                                          6/25/1996
528 ADOPTING A NEW CHAPTER REGULATING CABLEVISION                              8/6/1996
529 GRANTING A NEW FRANCHISE TO MULTIMEDIA CABLEVISION                         8/6/1996
530 TELEPHONE EXCHANGES, PERMIT, USE OF RIGHTS-OF- WAYS                        9/17/1996
531 ADOPTING BOCA, ELECTRIC, MECHANICAL, PLUMBING CODES (1996)                 9/17/1996
532 ADOPTION OF THE 1996 CODE OF ORDINANCES                                    11/5/1996
533 ADDING NEW REGULATIONS FOR HOME OCCUPATIONS                                11/19/
                                                                               1996
534 YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO                                                    12/3/1996
535 SIGNS                                                                      5/5/1997
536 TEMPORARY AND PORTABLE BUILDINGS                                           6/3/1997
537 SMOKE DETECTORS                                                            10/21/
                                                                               1997
538 DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS                                                      1/6/1998
539 ADULT NOVELTY SHOPS                                                        2/3/1998
540 SIGNS MOUNTED ON BUILDINGS                                                 6/16/1968
541 SIDE AND REAR SETBACKS IN C-2 COMMERICIAL ZONE.                            8/4/1998
542 POLITICAL SIGNS                                                            11/3/1998
543 ADOPTING ORDINANCE                                                         11/17/
                                                                               1998
544 1996 BOCA NATIONAL FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED                            12/1/1998
545 PARKING ON PAVED AND UNPAVED SURFACES, RIGHTS- OF-WAY.                     12/15/
                                                                               1998
546 POLICE DOG                                                                 2/2/1999
547 LICENSE FEE IN LIEU OF SALES TAX FOR VENDING MACHINES                      6/15/1999
548 LEASING AND FOR SALE SIGNS FOR HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS                        7/20/1999
549 PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS                                                     8/17/1999
550 PARKED VEHICLES TO DISPLAY LICENSE TAG/SAFETY STICKER                      1/4/2000
551 PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM REQUIRED.                                       1/18/2000
552 IMPOUNDMENT OF CERTAIN VEHICLES                                            1/18/2000
553 CLOSING OF PUBLIC EASEMENT                                                 2/4/2000
554 REGULATIONS FOR USE OF PARKS                                               3/21/2000
555 ROTATING SPINNING SIGNS, MARQUISES, HEIGHT OF SIGNS                        6/20/2000
556 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY BY POLICE DEPARTMENT                     7/18/2000
557 REVISING REQUIREMENT TO DISPLAY CURRENT TAG/SAFETY STICKER                 7/18/2000
558 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO TELEPHONE EXCHANGES                              9/5/2000
559 DUE DATES FOR PAYMENT OF LATE FEES FOR CABLE TELEVISION                    9/5/2000
560 PARKING DISTANCE FROM FIRE HYDRANT, MARKED CROSSWALKS                      9/19/2000
561 UTILITY SERVICE REGULATIONS                                                10/3/2000
562 ADOPTING THE 2000 CITY CODE                                                11/7/2000
563 PURCHASING, INVESTMENTS, BUDGETING                                         11/21/
                                                                               2000
564 SOLITICATION FROM ROADWAYS                                                 11/21/
                                                                               2000
565 ROTATING, FLASHING SIGNS                                                   2/6/2001
566 REGULATION OF CELL TOWERS                                                  3/6/2001
567 INCREASING THE SALES TAX BY 1-1/4 PENNY                                    3/1/2001
568 SIGN REGULATIONS                                                           5/15/2001
569 GRANTING A FRANCHISE TO OG&E                                               5/19/2001
570 LIMITING NUMBER OF CARS PARKED, RESTORATION PERMITS                        10/16/
                                                                               2001
571 REGULATIONS FOR USE OF PARKS                                               10/16/
                                                                               2001
572 REAPPORTIONMENT OF COUNCIL WARD BOUNDARIES                                 11/6/2001
573 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION                                                    1/15/2002
574 DROP OFF PAYMENT BOX FOR CABLE TV, AMENDING CABLE FRANCHISE                2/19/2002
575 DEFINING OVERFILLED GARBAGE/RECYLING CART AS NUISANCE                      7/16/2002
576 PLACEMENT OF CARTS, REGULATIONS FOR EXCESS WASTES, ETC.                    8/6/2002
577 MAKING NOISE ON RIGHTS OF WAYS                                             10/15/
                                                                               2002
578 NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGES TO DRAINAGE SYSTEM                               10/1/2002
579 ADOPTION OF 2002 CITY CODE                                                 11/5/2002
580 OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING                                             1/7/2003
581 LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS                                                     12/17/
                                                                               2002
582 SIGNS MOUNTED ON BUILDINGS                                                 12/17/
                                                                               2002
583 SIGNS FOR RESIDENTIAL SALES                                                5/20/2003
584 CIVIL DEFENSE AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT, ADOPTING DISASTER PLAN             7/1/2003
585 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR NUISANCE ABATEMENTS INCREASED TO $200.00            9/16/2003
586 DIRECTIONAL SIGNS FOR CHURCHES, SCHOOLS, YMCAS, ETC                        10/7/2003
587 DOUBLING OF FINES FOR SPEEDING IN CERTAIN CASES                            10/7/2003
588 ADOPTING C-3 ZONING DISTRICT                                               10/21/
                                                                               2003
589 REGULATION OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES, ADOPTING CHAPTER 18              10/21/
                                                                               2003
590 ADOPTING THE C-3 ZONING DISTRICT, AMENDING ZONING MAP                      11/18/
                                                                               2003
591 POWERS OF POUNDMASTER, IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS                              2/3/2004
592 REPEALING ANIMAL LICENCES, AUTHORIZING 3 YEAR VACCINATIONS                 4/6/2004
593 PROVIDING AN AMBULANCE FEE                                                 7/6/2004
594 COURT COSTS AND PENALTY ASSESSMENTS                                        7/6/2004
595 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, SALE OF SYRINGES WITHOUT PRESCRIPTION                  8/3/2004
596 SPECIFIC USE PERMITS, AMENDING USE REGULATIONS, ABOLISH C-3 ZONING         10/19/
                                                                               2004
597 ADOPTION OF THE 2004 CITY CODE                                             11/16/
                                                                               2004
598 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL                                     2/15/2005
599 INCREASING THE DEFERRAL FEE                                                2/15/2005
600 POST CONTSTRUCTION STORM WATER DESIGN                                      3/1/2005
601 MOTOR SCOOTERS REGULATED                                                   4/19/2005
602 TRUCK PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS                                         5/2/2005
603 CELL TOWER SETBACK FROM COMMERCIAL PROPERTY                                5/2/2005
604 SANITATION SERVICE REGULATIONS                                             7/5/2005
605 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE, 2003 EDITION                      7/5/2005
606 DUE DATE FOR UTILITY BILLING, LATE PAYMENT PENALTY                         7/19/2005
607 VICIOUS AND POTENTIALLY VICIOUS ANIMALS                                    8/2/2005
608 INTIMIDATION OF WITNESSES                                                  8/16/2005
609 DEFINITION OF FENCE IN DISREPAIR                                           9/6/2005
610 LIMITING THE NUMBER OF VEHICLES PERMITTED ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS              10/16/
                                                                               2005
611 SALE OF VEHICLES IN COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL AREAS                       11/15/
                                                                               2005
612 MISMANAGEMENT, MISUSE, REPAIR OF VEHICLES                                  11/15/
                                                                               2005
613 VICIOUS AND POTENTIALLVICIOUS DOGS, HEARINGS, IMPOUNDMENT                  2/21/1006
614 NOISY DOGS                                                                 2/21/2006
615 SALVAGE YARDS, STORAGE OF UNUSED VEHICLES                                  4/18/2006
616 PARKING OF BUSES                                                           4/18/2006
617 CREATION OF A PARK COMMISSION                                              6/20/2006
618 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES, YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO                          7/18/2006
619 BICYCLES & MOTORIZED SCOOTERS                                              8/01/2006
620 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES - YOUTH ACCESS TO TOBACCO                         8/15/2006
621 CLEANUP OF METHAMPHETAMINES                                                9/19/2006
622 AMENDING COMPREHENSIVE PLAN                                                10/31/
                                                                               2006
623 ADOPTING TAX INCREMENT FINANCING URBAN RENEWAL DISTRICT #1                 10/31/
                                                                               2006
624 ADOPTION OF THE 2006 CITY CODE                                             11/21/
                                                                               2006
625 ESTABLISHING A 911 VOICE OVER INTERNET PROTOCOL FEE                        12/19/
                                                                               2006
626 DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES                                             4/3/2007
627 SIGNS FOR RESIDENTIAL SALES                                                8/7/2007
628 UTILITIES SERVICE AGREEMENT, CONTRACTUAL LIEN                              8/7/2007
629 AUTHORIZING SALE OF PUBLIC WORKS PROPERTY                                  8/7/2007
630 REPEALING CABLE FRANCHISE REGULATIONS                                      11/20/
                                                                               2007
631 AMENDING DISPLAY OF HOUSE NUMBERS, SECTION 6- 205                          1/15/2008
632 AMENDING EXTERIOR MASONRY REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS, SECTI0N 6-202 5/27/2008
633 AMENDING MINIMUM LOT SIZE IN THE A-1 SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICT                6/17/2008
634 ADOPTION OF THE 2008 CITY CODE                                             11/18/
                                                                               2008
635 IMPOUNDMENT OF IMPROPERLY PLACED POLYCARTS                                 1/6/2009
636 ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAY REGULATIONS                                     1/6/2009
637 PROVIDING FOR UTILITY SERVICES AGREEMENT, CONTRACTUAL LIENS                2/3/2009
638 A-1 SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICT AREA REGULATIONS FOR SCHOOL CAMPUSES            3/17/2009
639 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS                             3/17/2009
640 COMPLIANCE WITH POINT OF DELIVERY SALES TAX REGULATIONS                    3/3/2009
641 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ASPHALTIC CONCRETE STREET PAVING                      6/23/2009
642 COURT COSTS                                                                8/18/2009
643 PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES IN DRIVEWAYS                              9/15/2009
644 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS – STATUTORY LIMITATIONS FOR CERTAIN FINES       10/06/
                                                                               2009
645 PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS                                                      10/06/
                                                                               2009
646 PLACEMENT OF ROLL OF DUMPSTERS IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS                        10/06/
                                                                               2009
647 FLOOD REGULATIONS                                                          10/20/
                                                                               2009
648 SIZE, LOCATION AND HEIGHT OF ELECTRONIC MESSAGE DISPLAYS                   11/03/
                                                                               2009
649 CREATING TAX INCREMENT DISTRICT #2                                         12/15/
                                                                               2009
650 INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIREMENTS FOR OIL WELL OPERATORS                     03/02/
                                                                               2010
651 CLOSING, VACATING CERTAIN STREETS AND EASEMENTS IN WHISPERING HILLS        04/13/
    ADDITION                                                                   2010
652 PROCEDURES FOR ABATING PUBLIC NUISANCES                                    04/20/
                                                                               2010
653 PERTAINING TO PROHIBITED ANIMALS                                           09/21/
                                                                               2010
654 PERTAINING TO REQUIRED REPORTS BY PAWNBROKERS                              10/05/
                                                                               2010
655 PERTAINING TO LOITERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITH POSTED SIGN               10/19/
                                                                               2010
656 ADOPTING THE 2010 CODE OF ORDINANCES                                       11/16/
                                                                               2010
657 PERTAINING TO TERM FOR RESIDENTIAL SALES (INCREASED TO THREE DAYS)         12-07-
                                                                               2010
658 REQUIRING CERTAIN REPORTS BY PAWN BROKERS                                  04-19-
                                                                               2011
659 AMENDING DEFINITION OF DILAPIDATED BUILDING                                08-16-
                                                                               2011
660 ADOPTING THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE, 2009 EDITION         09-06-
                                                                               2011
661 ADOPTING THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDNG CODE, 2009 EDITION                      09-06-
                                                                               2011
662 ADOPTING THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE, 2009 EDITION                         09-06-
                                                                               2011
663 ADOPTING THE INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE, 2009 EDITION                   09-06-
                                                                               2011
664 ADOPTING THE INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE, 2009 EDITION                     09-06-
                                                                               2011
665 ADOPTING THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE, 2009 EDITION         09-06-
                                                                               2011
666 SKIPPED NUMBER                                                              
667 AMENDING THE IRC, 2009 EDITION – SPRINKLERS – ATTIC STORAGE            10-18-
                                                                               2011
668 REAPPORTIONING WARD BOUNDARIES                                             12-06-
                                                                               2011
669 PERTAINING TO RESIDENTIAL SALES, SALES ON NON- CONSECUTIVE DAYS            02-07-
                                                                               2012
670 DESIGNATING BUILDING OFFICIAL AS FLOOD PLAIN ADMINISTRATOR                 02-21-
                                                                               2012
671 AMENDING REQUIREMENTS FOR NUISANCE ABATEMENT NOTICES                       07-03-
                                                                               2012
672 PERTAINING TO PARKING OF VEHICLES IN DRIVEWAYS AND EXTENSIONS INTO STREET  07-17-
                                                                               2012
673 PERTAINING TO SPECIFIC USE PERMITS FOR PLACES OF WORSHIP IN THE C-         08-21-
    2 DISTRICT                                                                 2012
674 PROHIBITING SALES OF LOW POINT BEER IN PUBLIC PARKS                        09-18-
                                                                               2012
675 SKIPPED NUMBER                                                              
676 PERTAINING TO MINORS DWI OR DUI                                            10-16-
                                                                               2012
677 AMENDING THE IBC 2009 EDITION; FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS                      10-16-
                                                                               2012
678 CITY CODE 2012 ADOPTING ORDINANCE                                          11-20-
                                                                               2012
679 TRANSPORTATION OF FIREARMS                                                 01-15-
                                                                               2013
680 SKATEBOARD RAMPS                                                           02-19-
                                                                               2013
681 REMOVAL OF PLANNING COMMISSIONERS FOR MISSING MEETINGS                     03-05-
                                                                               2013
682 VACATING CERTAIN EASEMENTS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS IN WHISPERING HILLS    04-16-
                                                                               2013
683 REMOVING ABANDONED, STOLEN VEHICLES                                        04-16-
                                                                               2013
684 DISPLAY OF LICENSE TAGS                                                    04-16-
                                                                               2013
685 SETBACKS FOR TORNADO SHELTERS                                              08-06-
                                                                               2013
686 REGULATING PORTABLE GENERATORS                                             08-20-
                                                                               2013
687 SEIZURE OF LICENSE PLATES FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH INSURANCE LAWS        11-19-
                                                                               2013
688 ELIMINIATION MINIMUM LOT SIZE FOR CHURCHES IN THE C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT  01-07-
                                                                               2014
689 CREATION TAX INCREMENT DISTRICT #3                                         03-04-
                                                                               2014
690 AMENDING SIGN REGUIATIONS FOR SIGNS MOUNTED ON BUILDINGS                   03-04-
                                                                               2014
691 PROHIITING CERTAIN TREE LOGS                                               03-25-
                                                                               2014
692 AUTHORIZING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINOR TRAFFIC AND PARKING FINE SCHEDULE 04-15-
                                                                               2014
693 REGULATING SKATEBOARD RAMPS IN COMMERCIAL AREAS                            04-15-
                                                                               2014
694 PROHIBITED NOISE ON CERTAIN COMMERCIAL PROPERTY                            04-15-
                                                                               2014
695 PROHIITING CERTAIN TREE LOGS                                               04-15-
                                                                               2014
696 PERTAINING TO TRUANCY AND DENTENTION OF TRUANT JUVENILES                   05-20-
                                                                               2014
697 PROVIDING AN OCCUPATION TAX FOR SALE OF ALCOHOL AT CERTAIN SPECIAL EVENTS  09-02-
                                                                               2014
698 SALE OF FIRE TRUCK VALUED AT MORE THAN $25,0000                            09-06-
                                                                               2014
699 ADOPTING THE 2014 CITY CODE                                                11-18-
                                                                               2014
700 SMOKING ON CITY OWNED PROPERTY                                             01-20-
                                                                               2015
701 DRIVING THROUGH PRIVATE DRIVEWAY                                           02-03-
                                                                               2015
702 TREE LOGS                                                                  02-17-
                                                                               2015
703 PARKING IN HANDICAP SPACES                                                 03-03-
                                                                               2015
704 PARKING IN HANDICAP SPACES – PENALTY CLAUSE                              03-17-
                                                                               2015
705 MISTREATMENT OF ANIMALS                                                    04-21-
                                                                               2015
706 SIGHT TRIANGLES AT INTERSECTIONS                                           05-04-
                                                                               2015
707 ESTATE SALES AND AUCTIONS                                                  07-21-
                                                                               2015
708 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING                                                      07-21-
                                                                               2015
709 CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEMS                                                    07-21-
                                                                               2015
710 GENERAL USES AND SPECIFIC USES IN C-2 COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT           08-04-
                                                                               2015
711 THIS NUMBER WAS SKIPPED                                                     
712 CITY WIDE GARAGE SALES                                                     10-06-
                                                                               2015
713 ADOPTING PARKING REGULATIONS                                               11-07-
                                                                               2016
714 AMENDING DEFINITION OF NON-OPERABLE VEHICLE                                10-17-
                                                                               2016
715 TRANSPORTATION OF WEAPONS                                                  11-21-
                                                                               2016
716 ADOPTING OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS                                   12-05-
                                                                               2016
717 AMENDING SECTION 20-16 PERTAINING TO THE HEIGHT OF SIGNS                   12-05-
                                                                               2016
718 ADOPTION OF 2016 CITY CODE                                                 12-19-
                                                                               2016
719 PRE-EXISTING VESTED SIGNS                                                  02-06-
                                                                               2017
720 REMOVAL OF NUISANCE VEHICLES                                               02-06-
                                                                               2017
721 USE OF TOBACCO AND VAPOR PRODUCTS ON CITY PROPERTY                         02-06-
                                                                               2017
722 CLOSING OF PUBLIC WAYS AND EASEMENTS                                       02-06-
                                                                               2017
723 PLACEMENT OF YARD SIGHS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY                                 03-20-
                                                                               2017
724 STORAGE OF TRASH AND RECYCLING CARTS                                       03-20-
                                                                               2017
725 PARKING VEHICLES ON UNPAVED SURFACE, EXTENSION INTO STREET                 03-20-
                                                                               2017
726 DISCONTINUING THE USE OF CERTAIN PUBLIC EASEMENTS                          04-03-
                                                                               2017
727 PLACEMENT OF YARD SIGNS                                                    04-17-
                                                                               2017
728 TECHNOLOGY FEE                                                             06-19-
                                                                               2017
729 TEMPORARY MORATORIUM FOR CERTAIN BUILDING AND SIGNS PERMITS, REZONING      07-17-
    (NON-PENAL)                                                                2017
730 SEIZURE OF LICENSE TAGS FOR NO INSURANCE                                   07-17-
                                                                               2017
731 RESTATING CHAPTER 20 PERTAINING TO SIGN REGULATIONS;                       10-16-
                                                                               2017
732 ½ PENNY SALES TAX ELECTION FOR CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                       11-06-
                                                                               2017
733 ADOPTING A NEW CHAPTER 26 PERTAINING TO LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS              11-06-
                                                                               2017
734 AMENDING CHAPTER 6 AND 24 PERTAINING TO MESSAGE PARLOR & MASSAGE           01-15-
    THERAPISTS                                                                 2018
735 SKIPPED NUMBER - WATER CONSERVATION ORDINANCE – ADOPTED 2018 CITY CODE   11-19-
                                                                               2018
736 AMENDING CHAPTER 7, SECTIONS 7-351 AND 7-354 PERTAINING TO TELEPHONE       03-05-
    SERVICES                                                                   2018
737 AMENDING CHAPTER 12, SECTION 12-42 PERTAINING TO FALSE ALARMS, COMPLAINTS, 04-10-
    INFO                                                                       2018
738 ADOPTING A NEW CHAPTER 4 OF THE CODE PERTAINING TO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE      08-06-
    LICENSES                                                                   2018
739 AMENDING CHAPTER 15 ADDING SUBSECTION 15-25 (21) PERTAINING TO DONATION    08-20-
    BOXES                                                                      2018
740 AMENDING CHAPTER 6 AND CHAPTER 24 PERTAINING TO ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN       10-15-
    STANDARDS                                                                  2018
741 ADOPTING THE VILLAGE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PLAN – TIF #4         12-17-
                                                                               2018
742 ADOPTING THE 2018 CITY CODE                                                12-17-
                                                                               2018
743 TEMPORARY CLASSROOM BLDGS; EXEMPTING TEMPORARY CLASSROOM BLDGS FROM DESIGN 03-18-
    STDS                                                                       2019
744 PARKING OF TRAILERS, BOATS, MOTOR HOMES, AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES         03-18-
                                                                               2019
745 RECLAMATION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY REMOVED PURSUANT TO NUISANCE ABATEMENT    05-06-
                                                                               2019
746 ANIMAL SAFETY AND WELFARE                                                  06-03-
                                                                               2019
747 COMMERCIAL GROWERS AND PROCESSORS OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA                     07-15-
                                                                               2019
748 ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS BY SUBDIVIDERS                    09-16-
                                                                               2019
749 PUBLIC DRINKING OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES                                     09-16-
                                                                               2019
750 EXPANDED ENUMERATED EMERGENCY POWERS IN A STATE OF EMERGENCY               03-17-
                                                                               2020
751 EXTENDING THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE – BRITTON ROAD 06-15-
    RIGHT OF WAY                                                               2020
752 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE                                                   07-06-
                                                                               2020
753 MANDATORY WEARING OF FACE COVERINGS IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS                   07-20-
                                                                               2020
754 AUTHORIZING ISSUANCE OF BONDS                                              08-17-
                                                                               2020
755 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR THE REDEVELOPMENT OF COMMERCIAL SITES       08-17-
                                                                               2020
756 RESTATING CHAPTER 5 PERTAINING TO ANIMALS AND ANIMAL WELFARE               09-21-
                                                                               2020
757 ADOPTING THE 2020 CITY CODE                                                12-07-
                                                                               2020
758 PENALTY ASSESSMENT                                                         05-17-
                                                                               2021
759 SHORT TERM RENTALS – BED & BREAKFASTS                                    07-19-
                                                                               2021
760 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES – TRELLISES                                         08-02-
                                                                               2021
761 TATTOO PARLORS & ART GALLERIES                                             07-19-
                                                                               2021
762 AMENDING TIF# 1 BUDGET                                                     12-06-
                                                                               2021
763 REAPPORTIONING WARD BOUNDARIES                                             12-20-
                                                                               2021
764 PAVING OF COMMERCIAL PARKING LOTS                                          02-21-
                                                                               2022
765 CLOSING A PORTION OF WEST UTICA DRIVE                                      04-18-
                                                                               2022
766 AUTHORIZING ISSUANCE OF BONDED INDEBTEDNESS                                02-08-
                                                                               2022
767 TEMPORARY PARKING/OCCUPANCY OF RVs, TRAILERS, AND MOTOR HOMES              06-06-
                                                                               2022
768 ADOPTING THE 2022 CITY CODE                                                12-05-
                                                                               2022
769                                                                            
770                                                                            
771                                                                            
772                                                                            
773                                                                            
774                                                                            
775                                                                            
776                                                                            
777                                                                            
778                                                                            
779                                                                            
780                                                                            
781                                                                            
782                                                                            
783                                                                            
784                                                                            
785                                                                            
786                                                                            
787                                                                            
788                                                                            
789                                                                            
790                                                                            
791                                                                            
